[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. We are vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the markets we serve.. The demand for our services is dependent upon the existence of projects with engineering, procurement, construction, fabrication, maintenance and management needs. Over the past few years, poor economic conditions, low commodity prices, political uncertainties and currency devaluations have adversely affected our clients' interest in approving new projects, reduced our clients' budgets for capital expenditures and otherwise caused a slowdown in the services our clients require. Despite improving conditions, our clients remain selective in how they allocate and expend their capital, which has resulted in a reduction of the number of projects we may bid on and win, especially the larger scale projects in which we specialize. In our Energy, Chemicals & Mining segment, capital expenditures by our clients may be influenced by factors such as prevailing prices and expectations about future prices for underlying. 14. Table of Contents. commodities, technological advances, the costs of exploration, production and delivery of product, domestic and international political, military, regulatory and economic conditions and other similar factors. In the power portion of our Industrial, Infrastructure & Power segment, new order activity has continued to see relatively low demand for our services in power due to stagnant demand for domestic power, coupled with improved energy efficiency and political and environmental concerns. In our mining and metal business line, while new order activity has picked up, the number and the size of the awards are less than we have historically seen due in part to volatility in the commodities and capital markets, which have caused clients in this segment to be conservative in how they allocate their investment capital for future improvements. Industries such as these and many of the others we serve have historically been and will continue to be vulnerable to general downturns, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the demand for our services.. Our revenue and earnings are largely dependent on the award of new contracts, which we do not directly control.. A substantial portion of our revenue and earnings is generated from large-scale project awards. The timing of project awards is unpredictable and outside of our control. Awards, including expansions of existing projects, often involve complex and lengthy negotiations and competitive bidding processes. These processes can be impacted by a wide variety of factors including a client's decision to not proceed with the development of a project, governmental approvals, financing contingencies, commodity prices, environmental conditions and overall market and economic conditions. We may not win contracts that we have bid upon due to price, a client's perception of our ability to perform and/or perceived technology advantages held by others. Many of our competitors may be more inclined to take greater or unusual risks or terms and conditions in a contract that we might not deem acceptable especially when the markets for the services we typically offer are relatively soft. Because a significant portion of our revenue is generated from large projects, our results of operations can fluctuate quarterly and annually depending on whether and when large project awards occur and the commencement and progress of work under large contracts already awarded. As a result, we are subject to the risk of losing new awards to competitors or the risk that revenue may not be derived from awarded projects as quickly as anticipated. Current economic and political conditions also make it extremely difficult for our clients, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities.. We may experience reduced profits or losses under contracts if costs increase above estimates.. Generally our business is performed under contracts that include cost and schedule estimates in relation to our services. Inaccuracies in these estimates may lead to cost overruns that may not be paid by our clients thereby resulting in reduced profits or losses. Unforeseen increases in or failures to properly estimate the cost of raw materials, components, equipment, labor or the ability to timely obtain them may result in such cost overruns or project delays. If a contract is significant or there are one or more events that impact a contract or multiple contracts, cost overruns could have a material impact on our reputation or our financial results, negatively impacting our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Approximately 37 percent of the dollar-value of our backlog is currently fixed-price contracts, where we bear a significant portion of the risk for cost overruns, and we expect this percentage of fixed-price contracts to increase in subsequent years. Reimbursable contract types, such as those that include negotiated hourly billing rates, may restrict the kinds or amounts of costs that are reimbursable, therefore exposing us to risk that we may incur certain costs in executing these contracts that are above our estimates and not recoverable from our clients. If we fail to accurately estimate the resources and time necessary for these types of contracts, or fail to complete these contracts within the timeframes and costs we have agreed upon, there could be a material impact on our financial results as well as our reputation.. 15. Table of Contents. Our project execution activities may result in reduced profits or losses that could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.. Because our projects are often technically complex, with multiple phases occurring over several years, we incur risks in our project execution activities. These risks could result in cost overruns, project delays or other problems and can include the following:. <U+0095> Unanticipated technical problems, including design or engineering issues;    <U+0095> Inaccurate representations of site conditions and unanticipated changes in the project execution plan;     <U+0095> Project modifications creating unanticipated costs or delays and failure to properly manage project modifications;     <U+0095> Inability to achieve guaranteed performance or quality standards with regard to engineering, construction or project management obligations;     <U+0095> Insufficient or inadequate project execution tools and systems needed to record, track, forecast and control cost and schedule;     <U+0095> Failure to accurately estimate the cost of projects;    <U+0095> Failure to properly make judgments in accordance with applicable professional standards, including engineering standards;     <U+0095> Failure to properly assess and update appropriate risk mitigation strategies and measures;    <U+0095> Incorrect assumptions related to productivity, scheduling estimates or future economic conditions including with respect to the impacts of inflation on lump-sum or fixed-price contracts;    <U+0095> Difficulties related to the performance of our clients, partners, subcontractors, suppliers or other third parties;     <U+0095> Delays or productivity issues caused by weather; and    <U+0095> Changes in local laws or difficulties or delays in obtaining permits, rights of way or approvals.. These and other risks may result in our failure to achieve contractual cost or schedule commitments, safety performance, overall client satisfaction or other performance criteria. As a result, we may receive lower fees or lose our ability to earn incentive fees. In other cases, our fee will not change but we will have to continue to perform work without additional fee until the performance criteria is achieved. In both instances, this could result in lower than expected gross margins. In addition, if we fail to meet guaranteed performance or quality standards, we may be held responsible under the guarantee or warranty provisions of our contract for cost impact to the client, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages or an obligation to re-perform substandard work. We may also be required to pay liquidated damages if we fail to complete a project on schedule. To the extent these events occur, the total cost to the project (including any liquidated damages we become liable to pay) could be material and could, in some circumstances, equal or exceed the full value of the contract. In such events, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow could be negatively impacted.. Intense competition in the global engineering, procurement and construction industry could reduce our market share and profits.. We serve markets that are highly competitive and in which a large number of multinational companies compete. These markets can require substantial resources and investment in technology and skilled personnel. We also see a continuing influx of non-traditional competitors offering below-market pricing while accepting greater risk. Competition can place downward pressure on our contract prices and profit margins, and may force us to accept contractual terms and conditions that are not normal or customary, thereby increasing the risk that we may have losses on such contracts. Intense competition is expected to. 16. Table of Contents. continue in these markets, presenting us with significant challenges in our ability to maintain strong growth rates and acceptable profit margins. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share to our competitors and experience an overall reduction in our profits.. Our use of teaming arrangements and joint ventures, which are important to our business, exposes us to risk and uncertainty because the success of those ventures depends on the satisfactory performance by our venture partners over whom we may have little or no control. The failure of our venture partners to perform their venture obligations could impose additional financial and performance obligations on us that could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to the venture.. In the ordinary course of business, and as has become increasingly common in our industry, we execute specific projects and otherwise conduct certain operations through joint ventures, consortiums, partnerships and other collaborative arrangements (collectively, \"ventures\"), including ICA Fluor and COOEC Fluor Heavy Industries (\"CFHI\"). We have various ownership interests in these ventures, with such ownership typically being proportionate to our decision-making and distribution rights. The ventures generally contract directly with the third party client; however, services may be performed directly by the venture, or may be performed by us, our partners, or a combination thereof.. Our success in many of our markets is dependent, in part, on the presence or capability of a local partner. If we are unable to compete alone, or with a quality partner, our ability to win work and successfully complete our contracts may be impacted. Differences in opinions or views between venture partners can result in delayed decision-making or failure to agree on material issues which could adversely affect the business and operations of our ventures. In many of the countries in which we engage in joint ventures, it may be difficult to enforce our contractual rights under the applicable joint venture agreement.. At times, we also participate in ventures where we are not a controlling party or where we team with unaffiliated parties on a particular project bid. In such instances, we may have limited control over venture decisions and actions, including internal controls and financial reporting which may have an impact on our business. If internal control problems arise within the joint venture, or if our joint venture partners have financial or operational issues, there could be a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The success of these and other ventures also depends, in large part, on the satisfactory performance by our venture partners of their venture obligations, including their obligation to commit working capital, equity or credit support as required by the venture and to support their indemnification and other contractual obligations. If our venture partners fail to satisfactorily perform their venture obligations, the venture may be unable to adequately perform or deliver its contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery by the venture of the contracted services and to meet any performance guarantees. From time to time in order to establish or preserve a relationship, or to better ensure venture success, we may accept risks or responsibilities for the venture which are not necessarily proportionate with the reward we expect to receive or which may differ from risks or responsibilities we would normally accept in our own operations. We may also be subject to joint and several liability for our venture partners under the applicable contracts for venture projects. These additional obligations could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, increased liabilities or significant losses for us with respect to the venture, and in turn, our business and operations. In addition, a failure by a venture partner to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations could negatively impact our business and could result in fines, penalties, suspension or in the case of government contracts even debarment.. From time to time, we are involved in litigation proceedings, potential liability claims and contract disputes which may reduce our profits.. We may be subject to a variety of legal proceedings, liability claims or contract disputes in virtually every part of the world. We engage in engineering and construction activities for large facilities where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage. In addition, the nature. 17. Table of Contents. of our business results in clients, subcontractors and suppliers occasionally presenting claims against us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually liable. We have been and may in the future be named as a defendant in legal proceedings where parties may make a claim for damages or other remedies with respect to our projects or other matters. During times of economic uncertainty, especially with regard to our commodity-based clients, claim frequencies and amounts tend to increase.. In proceedings when it is determined that we have liability, we may not be covered by insurance or, if covered, the dollar amount of these liabilities may exceed our policy limits. In addition, even where insurance is maintained for such exposure, the policies have deductibles resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to any such claims. Our professional liability coverage is on a \"claims-made\" basis covering only claims actually made during the policy period currently in effect. Any liability not covered by our insurance, in excess of our insurance limits or, if covered by insurance but subject to a high deductible, could result in a significant loss for us, and reduce our cash available for operations.. In other legal proceedings, liability claims or contract disputes, we may be covered by indemnification agreements which may at times be difficult to enforce. Even if enforceable, it may be difficult to recover under these agreements if the indemnitor does not have the ability to financially support the indemnity. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. For further information on matters in dispute, please see \"14. Contingencies and Commitments\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.. Our failure to recover adequately on claims against project owners, subcontractors or suppliers for payment or performance could have a material effect on our financial results.. We occasionally bring claims against project owners for additional costs exceeding the contract price or for amounts not included in the original contract price. Similarly, we present change orders and claims to our subcontractors and suppliers. If we fail to properly provide notice or document the nature of change orders or claims, or are otherwise unsuccessful in negotiating a reasonable settlement, we could incur reduced profits, cost overruns and in some cases a loss on the project. These types of claims can often occur due to matters such as owner-caused delays or changes from the initial project scope, which result in additional cost, both direct and indirect. From time to time, these claims can be the subject of lengthy and costly proceedings, and it is often difficult to accurately predict when these claims will be fully resolved. When these types of events occur and while unresolved claims are pending, we may invest significant working capital in projects to cover cost overruns pending the resolution of the relevant claims. A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and financial results.. Cyber-security breaches of our systems and information technology could adversely impact our ability to operate.. We utilize, develop, install and maintain a number of information technology systems both for us and for others. Various privacy and security laws require us to protect sensitive and confidential information from disclosure. In addition, we are bound by our client and other contracts, as well as our own business practices, to protect confidential and proprietary information (whether it be ours or a third party's information entrusted to us) from disclosure. Our computer systems face the threat of unauthorized access, computer hackers, viruses, malicious code, cyber attacks, phishing and other security incursions and system disruptions, including attempts to improperly access our confidential and proprietary information as well as the confidential and proprietary information of our clients and other business partners. While we endeavor to maintain industry-accepted security measures and technology to secure our computer systems and while we endeavor to ensure our cloud vendors that store our data maintain similar measures, these systems and the information stored on these systems may still be subject to threats. A party who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate confidential or proprietary information, or could. 18. Table of Contents. cause damage or interruptions to our systems. Any of these events could damage our reputation or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We have international operations that are subject to foreign economic and political uncertainties and risks. Unexpected and adverse changes in the foreign countries in which we operate could result in project disruptions, increased cost and potential losses.. Our business is subject to international economic and political conditions that change (sometimes frequently) for reasons which are beyond our control. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 58 percent of our backlog consisted of revenue to be derived from projects and services to be completed outside the United States. We expect that a significant portion of our revenue and profits will continue to come from international projects for the foreseeable future.. Operating in the international marketplace exposes us to a number of risks including:. <U+0095> abrupt changes in government policies, laws, treaties (including those impacting trade), regulations or leadership;     <U+0095> embargoes or other trade restrictions, including sanctions;    <U+0095> restrictions on currency movement;    <U+0095> tax increases;    <U+0095> currency exchange rate fluctuations;    <U+0095> changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;    <U+0095> U.S. government policy changes in relation to the foreign countries in which we or our clients operate;     <U+0095> other social, political and economic instability;    <U+0095> international hostilities; and    <U+0095> unrest, civil strife, acts of war, terrorism and insurrection.. Also, the lack of a well-developed legal system in some of the countries where we operate may make it difficult to enforce our contractual rights or to defend ourself against claims made by others. We operate in locations where there is a significant amount of political risk. In addition, military action or continued unrest could impact the supply or pricing of oil, disrupt our operations in the region and elsewhere, and increase our security costs. Our level of exposure to these risks will vary on each project, depending on the location of the project and the particular stage of each such project. For example, our risk exposure with respect to a project in an early development phase, such as engineering, will generally be less than our risk exposure on a project that is in the construction phase. To the extent that our international business is affected by unexpected and adverse foreign economic and political conditions and risks, we may experience project disruptions and losses. Project disruptions and losses could significantly reduce our overall revenue and profits.. Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and, therefore, may not be a reliable indicator of our future revenue or earnings.. As of December 31, 2017, our backlog was approximately $30.9 billion. Our backlog generally consists of projects for which we have an executed contract or commitment with a client and reflects our expected revenue from the contract or commitment, which is often subject to revision over time. We cannot guarantee that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or profitable or will not be subject to delay or suspension. Project cancellations, scope adjustments or deferrals, or foreign currency fluctuations may occur with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog and could reduce the dollar amount of our backlog and the revenue and profits that we actually earn; or, may cause the rate at which we perform on our backlog to decrease. Most of our contracts have termination for convenience provisions in them. 19. Table of Contents. allowing clients to cancel projects already awarded to us. Our contracts typically provide for the payment of fees earned through the date of termination and the reimbursement of costs incurred including demobilization costs. In addition, projects may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time. During periods of economic slowdown, or decreases and/or instability in commodity prices, the risk of backlog projects being suspended, delayed or cancelled generally increases. Finally, poor project or contract performance could also impact our backlog and profits. Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and our profits.. If we experience delays and/or defaults in client payments, we could suffer liquidity problems or we could be unable to recover all expenditures.. Because of the nature of our contracts, we sometimes commit resources to projects prior to receiving payments from clients in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures as they are incurred. Some of our clients may find it increasingly difficult to pay invoices for our services timely, especially as commodity prices are volatile or relatively low, increasing the risk that our accounts receivable could become uncollectible and ultimately be written off. In certain cases, our clients for our large projects are project-specific entities that do not have significant assets other than their interests in the project. From time to time, it may be difficult for us to collect payments owed to us by these clients. In addition, clients may request extension of the payment terms otherwise agreed to under our contracts. Delays in client payments may require us to make a working capital investment, which could impact our cash flows and liquidity. If a client fails to pay invoices on a timely basis or defaults in making its payments on a project in which we have devoted significant resources, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations or liquidity.. We are dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors to complete many of our contracts.. Some of the work performed under our contracts is actually performed by third-party subcontractors. We also rely on third-party suppliers to provide much of the equipment and materials used for projects. If we are unable to hire qualified subcontractors or find qualified suppliers, our ability to successfully complete a project could be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for subcontractors or equipment and supplies exceeds what we have estimated, especially in a fixed-price type contract, we may suffer losses on these contracts. If a supplier or subcontractor fails to provide supplies, technology, equipment or services as required under a contract to us, our joint venture partner, our client or any other party involved in the project for any reason, or provides supplies, technology, equipment or services that are not an acceptable quality, we may be required to source those supplies, technology, equipment or services on a delayed basis or at a higher price than anticipated, which could impact contract profitability. In addition, faulty workmanship, equipment or materials could impact the overall project, resulting in claims against us for failure to meet required project specifications. These risks may be intensified during an economic downturn if these suppliers or subcontractors experience financial difficulties or find it difficult to obtain sufficient financing to fund their operations or access to bonding, and are not able to provide the services or supplies necessary for our business. In addition, in instances where we rely on a single contracted supplier or subcontractor or a small number of suppliers or subcontractors, if a subcontractor or supplier were to fail, there can be no assurance that the marketplace can provide replacement technology, equipment, materials or services in a timely basis or at the costs we had anticipated. A failure by a third-party subcontractor or supplier to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations could negatively impact our business and could result in fines, penalties, suspension, or in the case of government contracts, even debarment.. Our businesses could be materially and adversely affected by events outside of our control.. Extraordinary or force majeure events beyond our control, such as natural or man-made disasters, could negatively impact our ability to operate or increase our costs to operate. As an example, from time to time we face unexpected severe weather conditions which may result in delays in our operations; evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services; increased labor and material costs or shortages; inability to deliver materials, equipment and personnel to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules;. 20. Table of Contents. and loss of productivity. We may remain obligated to perform our services after any such natural or man-made disasters, unless a contract provision provides us with relief from our obligations. The extra costs incurred as a result of these events may not be reimbursed by our clients. If we are not able to react quickly to such events, or if a high concentration of our projects are in a specific geographic region that suffers from a natural or man-made disaster, our operations may be significantly affected, which could have a negative impact on our operations. In addition, if we cannot complete our contracts on time, we may be subject to potential liability claims by our clients which may reduce our profits and result in losses.. Our U.S. government contracts and contracting rights may be terminated or otherwise adversely impacted at any time, and our inability to win or renew government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and reduce our projects and revenues.. We enter into significant government contracts, from time to time, such as those contracts that we have in place with the U.S. Department of Energy and Department of Defense. U.S. government contracts are subject to various uncertainties, restrictions and regulations, including oversight audits by government representatives and profit and cost controls, which could result in withholding or delay of payments to us. U.S. government contracts are also subject to uncertainties associated with Congressional funding, including the potential impacts of budget deficits and federal sequestration. A significant portion of our business is derived as a result of U.S. government regulatory, military and infrastructure priorities. Changes in these priorities, which can occur due to policy changes or changes in the economy, could adversely impact our revenues. The U.S. government is under no obligation to maintain program funding at any specific level, and funds for a program may even be eliminated. Our U.S. government clients may terminate or decide not to renew our contracts with little or no prior notice.. In addition, U.S. government contracts are subject to specific regulations such as the Federal Acquisition Regulation (\"FAR\"), the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards (\"CAS\"), the Service Contract Act and Department of Defense security regulations. Failure to comply with any of these regulations and other government requirements may result in contract price adjustments, financial penalties or contract termination. Our U.S. government contracts are also subject to audits, cost reviews and investigations by U.S. government contracting oversight agencies such as the U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency (the \"DCAA\"). The DCAA reviews the adequacy of and our compliance with our internal control systems and policies (including our labor, billing, accounting, purchasing, estimating, compensation and management information systems). The DCAA also has the ability to review how we have accounted for costs under the FAR and CAS. The DCAA presents its report findings to the Defense Contract Management Agency (\"DCMA\"). Should the DCMA determine that we have not complied with the terms of our contract and applicable statutes and regulations, or if they believe that we have engaged in inappropriate accounting or other activities, payments to us may be disallowed or we could be required to refund previously collected payments. Additionally, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, suspension or debarment from future government contracts, and qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the U.S. government under the False Claims Act, which could include claims for treble damages. Furthermore, in this environment, if we have significant disagreements with our government clients concerning costs incurred, negative publicity could arise which could adversely affect our industry reputation and our ability to compete for new contracts in the government arena or otherwise.. Most U.S. government contracts are awarded through a rigorous competitive process. The U.S. government has increasingly relied upon multiple-year contracts with pre-established terms and conditions that generally require those contractors that have been previously awarded the contract to engage in an additional competitive bidding process for each task order issued under the contract. Such processes require successful contractors to anticipate requirements and develop rapid-response bid and proposal teams as well as dedicated supplier relationships and delivery systems to react to these needs. We face rigorous competition and significant pricing pressures in order to win these task orders. If we are not successful in reducing costs or able to timely respond to government requests, we may not win additional awards. Moreover, even if we are qualified to work on a government contract, we may not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and under-. 21. Table of Contents. represented minority contractors. Our inability to win or renew government contracts during the procurement processes could harm our operations and reduce our profits and revenues.. Many of our U.S. government contracts require security clearances. Depending upon the level of clearance required, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain. If we or our employees are unable to obtain or retain necessary security clearances, we may not be able to win new business, and our existing government clients could terminate their contracts with us or decide not to renew them, thus adversely affecting our revenues.. Under the Budget Control Act of 2011, an automatic sequestration process, or across-the-board budget cuts (a large portion of which was defense-related), was triggered when the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, a committee of twelve members of Congress, failed to agree on a deficit reduction plan for the U.S. federal budget. The sequestration began on March 1, 2013. Although the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 provides some sequester relief until the end of 2017, absent additional legislative or other remedial action, the sequestration requires reduced U.S. federal government spending from 2018 through 2025. A significant reduction in federal government spending or a change in budgetary priorities could reduce demand for our services, cancel or delay federal projects, and result in the closure of federal facilities and significant personnel reductions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. If one or more of our U.S. government contracts are terminated for any reason including for convenience, if we are suspended or debarred from U.S. government contract work, or if payment of our cost is disallowed, we could suffer a significant reduction in expected revenue and profits.. Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts, which could result in reduced revenues and profits.. Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with anti-corruption, export control and environmental regulations; federal procurement regulations, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts and regulations regarding the protection of sensitive government information; regulations on lobbying or similar activities; regulations pertaining to the internal control over financial reporting; and, various other applicable laws or regulations. The precautions we take to prevent and detect fraud, misconduct or failures to comply with applicable laws and regulations may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of fraud or misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance and suspension or debarment from contracting with government agencies, which could weaken our ability to win contracts and have a material adverse impact on our revenues and profits.. Changes in our effective tax rate and tax positions may vary.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, in any country in which we operate could result in a lower or higher tax rate on our earnings, which could have a material impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. For example, recently enacted tax reform legislation in the U.S. could significantly impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and our determinations could be found to be incorrect. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and our tax estimates and tax positions could be materially affected by many factors including the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations and related interpretations, our global mix of earnings, the realizability of deferred tax assets and changes in uncertain tax positions. Future increases in our tax rate or adverse changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and liquidity.. 22. Table of Contents. Systems and information technology interruption, as well as new systems implementation, could adversely impact our ability to operate and our operating results.. As a global company, we are heavily reliant on computer, information and communications technology and related systems, some of which are hosted by third party providers, in order to operate. From time to time, we experience system interruptions and delays that may be planned for upgrades or that may be unplanned. Unplanned interruptions include natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar events or disruptions. Any of these or other events could cause system interruption, delays, loss of critical or sensitive data (including personal or financial data) or loss of funds; could delay or prevent operations (including the processing of transactions and reporting of financial results); and could adversely affect our reputation or our operating results. While we have and require the maintenance of reasonable safeguards designed to protect against unavailability or loss of data, these safeguards may not be sufficient. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against or alleviate damage caused by systems interruptions and delays, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and cash flows.. We continue to evaluate the need to upgrade and/or replace our systems and network infrastructure to protect our computing environment, to stay current on vendor supported products, to improve the efficiency of our systems and for other business reasons. The implementation of new systems and information technology could adversely impact our operations by imposing substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and risks of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems. And, our systems implementations may not result in productivity improvements at the levels anticipated. Systems implementation disruption and any other information technology disruption, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials or others for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We train our personnel concerning anti-bribery laws and issues, and we also inform our partners, subcontractors, suppliers, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf that they must comply with anti-bribery law requirements. We also have procedures and controls in place to monitor compliance. We cannot assure that our internal controls and procedures always will protect us from the possible reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for anti-bribery law violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others including our partners, agents, subcontractors or suppliers), we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, including contract cancellations or debarment, and loss of reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Litigation or investigations relating to alleged or suspected violations of anti-bribery laws, even if ultimately such litigation or investigations demonstrate that we did not violate anti-bribery laws, could be costly and could divert management's attention away from other aspects of our business.. Damage to our reputation could in turn cause damage to our business.. Maintaining our reputation is critical to attracting and maintaining our clients and other business relationships. If we fail to address issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could significantly harm our business. These issues may include, but are not limited to, any of the risk factors discussed in this Item 1A, including compliance with laws, project execution risk, cyber security and safety. If our reputation is harmed, we could suffer a number of adverse consequences, such as:. <U+0095> reduced demand for our services;. 23. Table of Contents. <U+0095> lack of investor confidence;    <U+0095> less favorable credit rating;    <U+0095> the inability to attract and retain qualified employees;    <U+0095> a loss of or reduction in scope of current project contracts and fewer contract awards;    <U+0095> less favorable contract terms;    <U+0095> increased litigation and costs; and    <U+0095> heightened regulatory scrutiny.. These and other consequences resulting from damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. New or changing legal requirements, including those relating to climate change, could adversely affect our operating results.. Our business and results of operations could be affected by the passage of climate change, defense, environmental, infrastructure, trade and other laws, policies and regulations. For example, growing concerns about climate change may result in the imposition of additional environmental regulations. Legislation, international protocols or treaties, regulation or other restrictions on emissions could affect our clients, including those who (a) are involved in the exploration, production or refining of fossil fuels such as our energy and chemicals clients, (b) emit greenhouse gases through the combustion of fossil fuels, including some of our power business clients or (c) emit greenhouse gases through the mining, manufacture, utilization or production of materials or goods. Such legislation or restrictions could increase the costs of projects for us and our clients or, in some cases, prevent a project from going forward, thereby potentially reducing the need for our services which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. However, legislation and regulation regarding climate change could also increase the pace of development of carbon capture and storage projects, alternative transportation, alternative energy facilities, such as wind farms or nuclear reactors or incentivize increased implementation of clean fuel projects which could positively impact the demand for our services. As another example, the implementation of trade barriers, countervailing duties, or border taxes, or the addition, relaxation or repeal of laws, policies and regulations regarding the industries and sectors in which we work could result in a decline in demand for our services, or may make the manner in which we perform our services, especially from outside the United States, less cost efficient. Furthermore, changes to existing trade agreements may impact our business operations. We cannot predict when or whether any of these various legislative and regulatory proposals may become law or what their effect will be on us and our customers.. We could be adversely impacted if we fail to comply with domestic and international import and export laws.. Our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. Our policies mandate strict compliance with U.S. and foreign international trade laws. To the extent we export technical services, data and products outside of the United States, we are subject to U.S. and international laws and regulations governing international trade and exports including but not limited to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control with the Department of Treasury. From time to time, we identify certain inadvertent or potential export or related violations. These violations may include, for example, transfers without required governmental authorization. A failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the imposition of fines, the denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts.. 24. Table of Contents. Past and future environmental, safety and health regulations could impose significant additional cost on us that reduce our profits.. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and health and safety regulations. Our projects can involve the handling of hazardous and other highly regulated materials, including nuclear and other radioactive materials, which, if improperly handled or disposed of, could subject us to civil and criminal liabilities. It is impossible to reliably predict the full nature and effect of judicial, legislative or regulatory developments relating to health and safety regulations and environmental protection regulations applicable to our operations. The applicable regulations, as well as the length of time available to comply with those regulations, continue to develop and change. The cost of complying with rulings and regulations, satisfying any environmental remediation requirements for which we are found responsible, or satisfying claims or judgments alleging personal injury, property damage or natural resource damages as a result of exposure to or contamination by hazardous materials, including as a result of commodities such as lead or asbestos-related products, could be substantial, may not be covered by insurance, could reduce our profits, and therefore, could materially impact our future operations.. Our company, along with our investment in NuScale, is subject to a number of regulations such as the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission and non-U.S. regulatory bodies, such as the International Atomic Energy Commission and the European Union, which can have a substantial effect on our nuclear operations and investments. Delays in receiving necessary approvals, permits or licenses, the failure to maintain sufficient compliance programs, and other problems encountered during construction (including changes to such regulatory requirements) could significantly increase our costs or have an adverse effect on our results of operations, our return on investments, our financial position and our cash flow.. A substantial portion of our business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations related to environmental matters. A reduction in the number or scope of these laws or regulations, or changes in government policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of such laws and regulations, could significantly reduce the size of one of our markets and limit our opportunities for growth or reduce our revenue below current levels.. If we do not have adequate indemnification for our nuclear services, it could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We provide services to the U.S. Department of Energy and the nuclear energy industry in the on-going maintenance and modification of nuclear facilities as well as decontamination and decommissioning activities of nuclear plants. The Price-Anderson Act generally indemnifies parties performing services to nuclear power plants and Department of Energy contractors; however, not all activities we engage in on behalf of our clients are covered. Thus, if the Price-Anderson Act indemnification protections do not apply to our services, or if the exposure occurs outside of the United States in a region that does not have protections comparable to the Price-Anderson Act, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by our client's refusal to contract with us, by our inability to obtain commercially reasonable insurance or third party indemnification, or by the potentially significant monetary damages we could incur.. Through a joint venture, we also provide services to the United Kingdom's Nuclear Decommissioning Agency (\"NDA\") relating to the clean up and decommissioning of certain public sector sites in the United Kingdom. Indemnification provisions under the Nuclear Installations Act of 1965 available to nuclear site licensees, the Atomic Energy Authority and the Crown, and contractual indemnification from the NDA do not apply to every liability that we might incur while performing services for the NDA. If the Nuclear Installations Act of 1965 and contractual indemnification provisions do not apply to our services or if our exposure occurs outside of the United Kingdom, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. 25. Table of Contents. Foreign currency risks could have an adverse impact on company revenue, earnings and/or backlog.. Certain of our contracts subject us to foreign currency risk, particularly when project contract revenue is denominated in a currency different than the contract costs. In addition, our operational cash flows and cash balances, though predominately held in U.S. dollars, may consist of different currencies at various points in time in order to execute our project contracts globally and meet transactional requirements. We may attempt to minimize our exposure to foreign currency risk by obtaining contract provisions that protect us from foreign currency fluctuations and/or by implementing hedging strategies utilizing derivatives as hedging instruments. However, these actions may not always eliminate all foreign currency risk, and as a result, our profitability on certain projects could be affected.. Our monetary assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies are subject to currency fluctuations when measured period to period for financial reporting purposes. In addition, the U.S. dollar value of our backlog may from time to time increase or decrease significantly due to foreign currency volatility. We may also be exposed to limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund our operations in other countries.. The company's reported revenue and earnings of foreign subsidiaries could be affected by foreign currency volatility. Revenue, cost and earnings of foreign subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. If the U.S. dollar appreciates against a foreign subsidiary's non-U.S. dollar functional currency, the company would report less revenue, cost and earnings in U.S. dollars than it would have had the U.S. dollar depreciated against the same foreign currency or if there had been no change in the exchange rate.. Our business may be negatively impacted if we are unable to adequately protect intellectual property rights.. Our success is dependent, in part, on our ability to differentiate our services through our technologies and know-how. This success includes the ability of companies in which we invest, such as NuScale to protect their intellectual property rights. We rely principally on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements to protect our interests. However, these methods only provide a limited amount of protection and may not adequately protect our interests. Our employees, contractors and joint venture partners are subject to confidentiality obligations, but this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information and/or infringement of our intellectual property rights. This can be especially true in certain foreign countries that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, or when our joint venture partner is a competitor who will gain access to our procedures and know-how while working with us in the performance of services.. Our clients require broad ownership rights in the work product and other materials we deliver. If we are not able to retain ownership of our pre-existing intellectual property and improvements thereto, it may affect our ability to provide similar services to other clients in the future, which ultimately, could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We cannot provide assurances that others will not independently develop technology substantially similar to our trade secret technology or that we can successfully preserve our intellectual property rights in the future. Our intellectual property rights could be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or infringed upon. Litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management's attention away from other aspects of our business.. In addition, our clients or other third parties may also provide us with their technology and intellectual property. There is a risk that we may not sufficiently protect our or their information from improper use or dissemination and, as a result, could be subject to claims and litigation and resulting liabilities, loss of contracts or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. We also hold licenses from third parties which may be utilized in our business operations. If we are no longer able to license such technology on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise, our business and. 26. Table of Contents. financial performance could be adversely affected. When we license our intellectual property to third parties, the scope of such license grant is limited to a particular plant or project. If such third party exceeds the scope of the license grant, and if we are unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights, our revenue and margins will be adversely impacted, and the value of our intellectual property portfolio may decline thereby adversely affecting our competitive advantage and ability to win future work.. Adverse credit and financial market conditions could impair our, our clients' and our partners' borrowing capacity, which could negatively affect our business operations, profits and growth objectives.. Our ongoing ability to generate cash is important for the funding of our continuing operations, investing in joint ventures, the servicing of our indebtedness, paying dividends to stockholders and making acquisitions. To the extent that existing cash balances and cash flow from operations, together with borrowing capacity under our existing credit facilities, are insufficient to make investments or acquisitions or provide needed working capital, we may require additional financing from other sources. Our ability to obtain such additional financing in the future will depend in part upon prevailing capital market conditions, as well as conditions in our business and our operating results; and those factors may affect our efforts to arrange additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us. Furthermore, if global economic, political or other market conditions adversely affect the financial institutions which provide credit to us, it is possible that our ability to draw upon our credit facilities may be impacted. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to make future investments, take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities, or respond to competitive challenges.. In addition, adverse credit and financial market conditions could also adversely affect our clients' and our partners' borrowing capacity, which support the continuation and expansion of projects worldwide, and could result in contract cancellations or suspensions, project award and execution delays, payment delays or defaults by our clients. These disruptions could materially impact our backlog and profits. If we extend a significant portion of credit to our clients or projects in a specific geographic region or industry, we may experience higher levels of collection risk or non-payment if those clients are impacted by factors specific to their geographic industry or region. Finally, our business has traditionally lagged recoveries in the general economy, and therefore may not recover as quickly as the economy as a whole.. Our employees work on projects that are inherently dangerous and in locations where there are high security risks, and a failure to maintain a safe work site could result in significant losses.. We often work on large-scale and complex projects, frequently in geographically remote or high risk locations that are subject to political, social or economic risks, or war or civil unrest. In those locations where we have employees or operations, we may expend significant efforts and incur substantial security costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. In addition, our project sites can place our employees and others near large equipment, dangerous processes or substances or highly regulated materials, and in challenging environments. Safety is a primary focus of our business and is critical to our reputation and performance. Often, we are responsible for safety on the project sites where we work. Many of our clients require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to bid on contracts, and some of our contract fees or profits are subject to satisfying safety criteria. Unsafe work conditions also have the potential of increasing employee turnover, increasing project costs and raising our operating costs. If we fail to implement appropriate safety procedures and/or if our procedures fail, our employees or others may suffer injuries or even loss of life, the completion of a project could be delayed and we could experience investigations or litigation. Although we maintain functional groups whose primary purpose is to implement effective health, safety and environmental procedures throughout our company, the failure to comply with such procedures, client contracts or applicable regulations could subject us to losses and liability. And, despite these activities, in these locations and at these sites, we cannot guarantee the safety of our personnel, nor damage to or loss of work, equipment or supplies.. 27. Table of Contents. Our continued success requires us to hire and retain qualified personnel.. The success of our business is dependent upon being able to attract and retain personnel, including engineers, project management and craft employees around the globe, who have the necessary and required experience and expertise, and who will perform these services at a reasonable and competitive rate. Competition for these and other experienced personnel is intense. It may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded by our clients. In certain geographic areas, for example, we may not be able to satisfy the demand for our services because of our inability to successfully hire and retain qualified personnel. Also, it may be difficult to replace personnel who hold government granted eligibility that may be required to obtain certain government projects and/or who have significant government contract experience.. As some of our executives and other key personnel approach retirement age, we need to provide for smooth transitions, which may require that we devote time and resources to identify and integrate new personnel into these leadership roles and other key positions. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel or effectively implement appropriate succession plans, our ability to pursue projects may be adversely affected, the costs of executing our existing and future projects may increase and our financial performance may decline.. In addition, the cost of providing our services, including the extent to which we utilize our workforce, affects our profitability. For example, the uncertainty of contract award timing can present difficulties in matching our workforce size with our contracts. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur costs resulting from excess staff, reductions in staff, or redundancy of facilities that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. We may be unable to win new contract awards if we cannot provide clients with letters of credit, bonds or other security or credit enhancements.. In certain of our business lines it is industry practice for customers to require surety bonds, letters of credit, bank guarantees or other forms of credit enhancement. Surety bonds, letters of credit or guarantees indemnify our clients if we fail to perform our obligations under our contracts. Historically, we have had strong surety bonding capacity due to our industry leading credit rating, but, bonding is provided at the surety's sole discretion. In addition, because of the overall limitations in worldwide bonding capacity, we may find it difficult to find sufficient surety bonding capacity to meet our total surety bonding needs. With regard to letters of credit, while we have had adequate capacity under our existing credit facilities, any capacity that may be required in excess of our credit limits would be at our lenders' sole discretion and therefore is not certain. Failure to provide credit enhancements on terms required by a client may result in an inability to compete for or win a project.. Any acquisitions, dispositions or other investments may present risks or uncertainties.. We have made and expect to continue to pursue selective acquisitions or dispositions of businesses, or investments in strategic business opportunities. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to locate suitable acquisitions or investments, or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or that such transactions will be successful. Acquisitions may bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted or jurisdictions where we have had little to no prior operations experience and thus expose us to additional business risks that are different from those we have traditionally experienced. We also may encounter difficulties identifying all significant risks during our due diligence activities or integrating acquisitions and successfully managing the growth we expect to experience from these acquisitions. We may not be able to successfully cause a buyer of a divested business to assume the liabilities of that business or, even if such liabilities are assumed, we may have difficulties enforcing our rights, contractual or otherwise, against the buyer. We may invest in companies or businesses that fail, causing a loss of all or part of our investment. In addition, if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for a company in which we have invested, we may have to write down that investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss.. 28. Table of Contents. For cases in which we are required under the equity method or the proportionate consolidation method of accounting to recognize a proportionate share of another company's income or loss, such income or loss may impact our earnings.. Although we expect to realize certain benefits as a result of our acquisitions and investments, there is a possibility that we may be unable to successfully integrate our businesses or capitalize upon our investments in order to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions and investments or do so within the intended timeframe.. Whenever we make an acquisition or investment, we have and will continue to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating or aligning the business practices and operations of companies we acquire or invest in. Difficulties we may encounter in the integration/alignment process include:. <U+0095> A delay in the integration or alignment of management teams, strategies, operations, products and services;     <U+0095> Diversion of the attention of management as a result of the acquisition or investment;    <U+0095> The consequences of a change in tax treatment, including the costs of integration/consolidation and compliance, and the possibility that the anticipated benefits of the acquisition/investment will not be realized;    <U+0095> Differences in corporate culture and management philosophies;    <U+0095> The ability to retain key personnel;    <U+0095> The challenges of integrating or aligning complex systems, technology, networks and other assets into or to be compatible with ours in a way that minimizes any adverse effects on the business; and    <U+0095> Potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisition or investment, including the costs to integrate or consolidate beyond current estimates.. Any of these factors could affect each company's ability to maintain business relationships or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or investment, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our actual results could differ from the assumptions and estimates used to prepare our financial statements.. In preparing our financial statements, we are required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include:. <U+0095> recognition of contract revenue, costs, profits or losses in applying the principles of percentage-of-completion accounting;     <U+0095> recognition of revenues related to project incentives or awards we expect to receive;    <U+0095> recognition of recoveries under contract change orders or claims;    <U+0095> estimated amounts for expected project losses, warranty costs, contract close-out or other costs;    <U+0095> collectability of billed and unbilled accounts receivable and the need and amount of any allowance for doubtful accounts;     <U+0095> asset valuations;    <U+0095> income tax provisions and related valuation allowances;    <U+0095> determination of expense and potential liabilities under pension and other post-retirement benefit programs; and. 29. Table of Contents. <U+0095> accruals for other estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance revenues/reserves.. Our actual business and financial results could differ from our estimates of such results, which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and reported results of operations.. It can be very difficult or expensive to obtain the insurance we need for our business operations.. As part of business operations we maintain insurance both as a corporate risk management strategy and to satisfy the requirements of many of our contracts. Although in the past we have been generally able to cover our insurance needs, there can be no assurances that we can secure all necessary or appropriate insurance in the future, or that such insurance can be economically secured. For example, catastrophic events can result in decreased coverage limits, more limited coverage, increased premium costs or deductibles. We also monitor the financial health of the insurance companies from which we procure insurance, and this is one of the factors we take into account when purchasing insurance. Our insurance is purchased from a number of the world's leading providers, often in layered insurance or quota share arrangements. If any of our third party insurers fail, abruptly cancel our coverage or otherwise cannot satisfy their insurance requirements to us, then our overall risk exposure and operational expenses could be increased and our business operations could be interrupted.. In the event we make acquisitions using our stock as consideration, stockholders' ownership percentage would be diluted.. We intend to grow our business not only organically but also potentially through acquisitions. One method of paying for acquisitions or to otherwise fund our corporate initiatives is through the issuance of additional equity securities. If we do issue additional equity securities, the issuance would have the effect of diluting our earnings per share and stockholders' percentage ownership.. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover or change of control.. Fluor is a Delaware corporation. Various anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law impose impediments on the ability of others to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, certain provisions of our charters and bylaws may impede or discourage a takeover. For example:. <U+0095> stockholders may not act by written consent;    <U+0095> there are various restrictions on the ability of a stockholder to call a special meeting or to nominate a director for election; and     <U+0095> our Board of Directors can authorize the issuance of preferred shares.. These types of provisions in our charters and bylaws could also make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Accordingly, stockholders may be limited in the ability to obtain a premium for their shares."
