[1] "Item 1A.  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRisk Factors. FNCB, like other financial companies, is subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, many of which are outside of our direct control. Among these risks are:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCredit risk, which is the risk of loss due to borrowers or other counterparties not being able to meet their financial obligations under agreed upon terms;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMarket risk, which occurs when fluctuations in interest rates impact earnings and capital. Financial impacts are realized through changes in the interest rates of balance sheet assets and liabilities (net interest margin) or directly through valuation changes of capitalized MSR and/or trading assets (noninterest income);. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLiquidity risk, which is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from an inability to meet obligations when they come due. Liquidity risk includes the inability to access funding sources or manage fluctuations in funding levels. Liquidity risk also results from the failure to recognize or address changes in market conditions that affect our ability to liquidate assets quickly and with minimal loss in value;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOperational and Legal risk, which is the risk of loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human errors or misconduct, or adverse external events. Operational losses result from internal fraud; external fraud, inadequate or inappropriate employment practices and workplace safety, failure to meet professional obligations involving customers, products, and business practices, damage to physical assets, business disruption and systems failures, and failures in execution, delivery, and process management.  Legal risk includes, but is not limited to, exposure to orders, fines, penalties, or punitive damages resulting from litigation, as well as regulatory actions;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCompliance risk, which exposes us to money penalties, enforcement actions or other sanctions as a result of non-conformance with laws, rules, and regulations that apply to the financial services industry;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tStrategic risk, which is defined as risk to current or anticipated earnings, capital, or enterprise value arising from adverse business decisions, improper implementation of business decisions or lack of responsiveness to industry / market changes; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tReputation risk, which is the risk that negative publicity regarding an institution's business practices, whether true or not, will cause a decline in the customer base, costly litigation, or revenue reductions.. The risk factors discussed below, which could materially affect FNCB’s business, operating results or financial condition, should be considered in addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, the risk factors described below are not meant to be all inclusive. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that FNCB currently deems to be insignificant may also materially adversely affect its business, operating results or financial condition.. Credit Risk. Weakness in the economic environment, in general, and within FNCB’s market area could pose significant challenges for FNCB and could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.. FNCB’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the specific local markets in which it operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, FNCB provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Lackawanna, Luzerne, Lehigh and Wayne County markets. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for FNCB’s products and services as well as the ability of customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, severe weather or natural disasters, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on FNCB’s financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, weakness in economic conditions could result in one or more of the following:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA decrease in the demand for FNCB’s loans and other products and services;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA decrease in customer savings generally and in the demand for FNCB’s savings and other deposit products; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAn increase in the number of customers and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws, or default on their loans or other obligations.. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies, or defaults could result in a higher level of non-performing assets, net charge-offs, and provision for loan and lease losses. The markets we serve are dependent on retail and service-related businesses and, thus, are particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions affecting these sectors.. 11. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 36.8% of FNCB’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans and construction, land acquisition and development loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having a higher risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because FNCB’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. All non-performing loans totaled $2.6 million, or 0.3% of total gross loans, as of December 31, 2017, and $2.2 million, or 0.3% of total gross loans, as of December 31, 2016. Although non-performing loans as a percentage of gross loans remained steady from the prior year, an increase in non-performing loans in the future could result in an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on FNCB’s financial condition and results of operations. The lending activities in which the Bank engages carry the risk that the borrowers will be unable to perform on their obligations. As such, general economic conditions, nationally and in FNCB’s primary market area, will have a significant impact on its results of operations. To the extent that economic conditions deteriorate, business and individual borrowers may be less able to meet their obligations to the Bank in full, in a timely manner, resulting in decreased earnings or losses to the Bank. To the extent that loans are secured by real estate, adverse conditions in the real estate market may reduce the ability of the borrowers to generate the necessary cash flow for repayment of the loan, and reduce the ability to collect the full amount of the loan upon a default. To the extent that the Bank makes fixed-rate loans, general increases in interest rates will tend to reduce its spread as the interest rates FNCB must pay for deposits would increase while interest income is flat. Economic conditions and interest rates may also adversely affect the value of property pledged as security for loans.. FNCB’s concentrations of loans, including those to insiders and related parties, may create a greater risk of loan defaults and losses.. A substantial portion of FNCB’s loans are secured by real estate in the Northeastern Pennsylvania market, and substantially all of its loans are to borrowers in that area. FNCB also has a significant amount of commercial real estate, commercial and industrial, construction, land acquisition and development loans and land-related loans for residential and commercial developments. At December 31, 2017, $462.2 million, or 60.2%, of gross loans were secured by real estate, primarily commercial real estate. Management has taken steps to mitigate commercial real estate concentration risk by diversification among the types and characteristics of real estate collateral properties, sound underwriting practices, and ongoing portfolio monitoring and market analysis. Of total gross loans, $21.0 million, or 2.7%, were construction, land acquisition and development loans. Construction, land acquisition and development loans have the highest risk of uncollectability. An additional $150.1 million, or 19.5%, of portfolio loans were commercial and industrial loans not secured by real estate. Historically, commercial and industrial loans generally have had a higher risk of default than other categories of loans, such as single family residential mortgage loans. The repayment of these loans often depends on the successful operation of a business and are more likely to be adversely affected by adverse economic conditions. While management believes that the loan portfolio is well diversified in terms of borrowers and industries, these concentrations expose FNCB to the risk that adverse developments in the real estate market, or in the general economic conditions in its general market area, could increase the levels of non-performing loans and charge-offs, and reduce loan demand. In that event, FNCB would likely experience lower earnings or losses. Additionally, if, for any reason, economic conditions in its market area deteriorate, or there is significant volatility or weakness in the economy or any significant sector of the area’s economy, FNCB’s ability to develop business relationships may be diminished, the quality and collectability of its loans may be adversely affected, the value of collateral may decline and loan demand may be reduced.. Commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and construction, land acquisition and development loans tend to have larger balances than single family mortgage loans and other consumer loans. Because FNCB’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans and construction, land acquisition and development loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in non-performing assets. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses, or an increase in loan charge-offs, which could have an adverse impact on FNCB’s results of operations and financial condition.. Guidance adopted by federal banking regulators provides that banks having concentrations in construction, land development or commercial real estate loans are expected to have and maintain higher levels of risk management and, potentially, higher levels of capital, which may adversely affect shareholder returns, or require FNCB to obtain additional capital sooner than it otherwise would. Excluded from the scope of this guidance are loans secured by non-farm nonresidential properties where the primary source of repayment is the cash flow from the ongoing operations and activities conducted by the party, or affiliate of the party, who owns the property.. Outstanding loans and line of credit balances to directors, officers and their related parties totaled $55.6 million as of December 31, 2017. At December 31, 2017, there were no loans to directors, officers and their related parties that were categorized as criticized loans within the Bank’s risk rating system, meaning they are not considered to present a higher risk of collection than other loans. For more information regarding loans to officers and directors and/or their related parties, please refer to Note 11, “Related Party Transactions” to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 and Item 13, “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence” to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 12. FNCB’s financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if the ALLL is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if increases to the ALLL were required.. The lending activities in which the Bank engages carry the risk that the borrowers will be unable to perform on their obligations, and that the collateral securing the payment of their obligations may be insufficient to assure repayment. FNCB may experience significant credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of FNCB’s loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of its loans, which it uses as a basis to estimate and establish its reserves for losses. In determining the amount of the ALLL, management reviews loans, loss and delinquency experience, and evaluates current economic conditions. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, the ALLL may not cover inherent losses in FNCB’s loan portfolio at the date of its financial statements. Material additions to FNCB’s allowance or extensive charge-offs would materially decrease its net income. At December 31, 2017, the ALLL totaled $9.0 million, representing 1.17% of total loans.. Although management believes FNCB’s underwriting standards are adequate to manage normal lending risks, it is difficult to assess the future performance of its loan portfolio due to the ongoing economic environment and the state of the real estate market. The assessment of future performance of the loan portfolio is inherently uncertain. FNCB can give no assurance that non-performing loans will not increase or that non-performing or delinquent loans will not adversely affect its future performance.. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the ALLL and may require increases to the ALLL or further loan charge-offs. Any increase in ALLL or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on FNCB’s results of operations and financial condition.. If management concludes that the decline in value of any of FNCB’s investment securities is other-than-temporary, FNCB is required to write down the security to reflect credit-related impairments through a charge to earnings.. Management reviews FNCB’s investment securities portfolio at each quarter-end reporting period to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of FNCB’s debt investment securities has declined below its carrying value, management is required to assess whether the decline represents an OTTI. If management concludes that the decline is other-than-temporary, it is required to write down the value of that security to reflect the credit-related impairments through a charge to earnings. Changes in the expected cash flows of securities in FNCB’s portfolio and/or prolonged price declines in future periods may result in OTTI, which would require a charge to earnings. Due to the complexity of the calculations and assumptions used in determining whether an asset is impaired, any impairment disclosed may not accurately reflect the actual impairment in the future. In addition, to the extent that the value of any of FNCB’s investment securities is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates, any increase in interest rates may result in a decline in the value of such investment securities.. FNCB held approximately $2.8 million in capital stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (“FHLB”) as of December 31, 2017. FNCB must own such capital stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank system which enables it to borrow funds under the FHLB advance program. If the FHLB were to cease operations, FNCB’s business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Market Risk. Changes in interest rates could reduce income, cash flows and asset values.. FNCB’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond FNCB’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest FNCB receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) FNCB’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of FNCB’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of FNCB’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio.. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and investments, FNCB’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on FNCB’s financial condition and results of operations.. 13. FNCB may not be able to successfully compete with others for business.. FNCB competes for loans, deposits and investment dollars with numerous regional and national banks and other community banking institutions, online divisions of banks located in other markets as well as other kinds of financial institutions and enterprises, such as securities firms, insurance companies, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage brokers, private lenders and Fintech companies. There is also competition for banking business from competitors outside of its market area. As noted above, FNCB and the Bank are subject to extensive regulations and supervision, including, in many cases, regulations that limit the type and scope of activities. Many competitors have substantially greater resources and may offer certain services that FNCB and the Bank does not provide, and operate under less stringent regulatory environments. The differences in available resources and applicable regulations may make it harder for FNCB to compete profitably, reduce the rates that it can earn on loans and investments, increase the rates it must offer on deposits and other funds, and adversely affect its overall financial condition and earnings. For additional discussion of FNCB’s competitive environment, refer to the section entitled “Business – Competition” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Liquidity Risk. Changes in either FNCB’s financial condition or in the general banking industry could result in a loss of depositor confidence.. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. The Bank uses its liquidity to extend credit and to repay liabilities as they become due or as demanded by customers. The Board of Directors establishes liquidity policies, including contingency funding plans, and limits and management establishes operating guidelines for liquidity. FNCB’s primary source of liquidity is customer deposits. The continued availability of this funding source depends on customer willingness to maintain deposit balances with banks in general and FNCB in particular. The availability of deposits can also be impacted by regulatory changes (e.g. changes in FDIC insurance, the liquidity coverage ratio, etc.), changes in the financial condition of FNCB, or the banking industry in general, and other events which can impact the perceived safety and soundness or economic benefits of bank deposits. While FNCB makes significant efforts to consider and plan for hypothetical disruptions in our deposit funding through the use of liquidity stress testing, market related, geopolitical, or other events could impact the liquidity derived from deposits.. FNCB is a bank holding company and depends on dividends from its subsidiary, FNCB Bank, to operate.. FNCB is an entity separate and distinct from the Bank. The Bank conducts most of our operations and FNCB depends upon dividends from the Bank to service FNCB's debt, pay FNCB’s expenses and to pay dividends to FNCB's shareholders. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition including liquidity and capital adequacy of the Bank and other factors, that the Bank’s regulators could limit the payment of dividends or other payments to FNCB by the Bank. In the event that the Bank was unable to pay dividends, FNCB in turn would likely have to reduce or stop paying dividends to its shareholders. Failure to pay dividends to FNCB shareholders could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. For additional information regarding dividend restrictions, refer to the section entitled “Regulatory Matters” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. If we lose access to wholesale funding sources, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors, creditors, and borrowers, or have the operating cash needed to fund corporate expansion and other corporate activities.. Wholesale funding sources include brokered deposits, reciprocal and one-way CDARS and ICS deposits federal funds lines of credit, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core deposits, and long-term debt. The Bank is also a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, which provides members access to funding through advances collateralized with certain qualifying assets within the Bank’s loan portfolio. In addition, FNCB’s available-for-sale securities provide an additional source of liquidity. Disruptions in availability of wholesale funding can directly impact the liquidity of FNCB and the Bank. The inability to access capital markets funding sources as needed could adversely impact FNCB’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and level of regulatory-qualifying capital.. Operational and Legal Risk. Interruptions or security breaches of FNCB’s information systems could negatively affect its financial performance or reputation.. In conducting its business, FNCB relies heavily on its information systems. FNCB collects and stores sensitive data, including proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of its customers and employees, in its data centers and on its networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to FNCB’s operations and business strategy. Maintaining and protecting those systems is difficult and expensive, as is dealing with any failure, interruption or breach of those systems. Despite security measures, FNCB’s information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to security breaches, cyber-attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any damage, failure or breach could cause an interruption in operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through FNCB’s computer systems and network infrastructure. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or breaches could damage FNCB’s reputation, disrupt operations and the services provided to customers, cause a loss of confidence in the products and the services provided, cause FNCB to incur additional expenses, result in a loss of customer business and data, result in legal claims or proceedings, result in liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, result in regulatory penalties, or expose FNCB to other liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations and competitive position.. 14. If FNCB’s information technology is unable to keep pace with growth or industry developments or if technological developments result in higher costs or less advantageous pricing, financial performance may suffer.. Effective and competitive delivery of FNCB’s products and services increasingly depends on information technology resources and processes, both those provided internally as well as those provided through third party vendors. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology can improve efficiency and help reduce costs. FNCB’s future success will depend, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services to enhance customer convenience, as well as to create efficiencies in its operations. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and non-interest income from fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require FNCB to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. FNCB may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. Many of FNCB’s competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Additionally, as technology in the financial services industry changes and evolves, keeping pace becomes increasingly complex and expensive. There can be no assurance that FNCB will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, which could reduce its ability to compete effectively. As a result, FNCB could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract customers, or be subject to cost increases.. FNCB relies on management and other key personnel and the loss of any of them may adversely affect its operations.. FNCB believes each member of the executive management team is important to its success and the unexpected loss of any of these persons could impair day-to-day operations as well as its strategic direction.. FNCB’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by FNCB can be intense and it may not be able to hire people or retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of FNCB’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on its business due to the loss of their skills, knowledge of its market, years of industry experience and to the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. FNCB may be a defendant from time to time in a variety of litigation and other actions, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. FNCB has been and may continue to be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation matters arising out of its business. An increased number of lawsuits, including purported class action lawsuits and other consumer driven litigation, have been filed and will likely continue to be filed against financial institutions, which may involve substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages. Management believes the risk of litigation generally increases during downturns in the national and local economies. FNCB’s insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against it, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm its reputation and may cause it to incur significant expense. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, FNCB may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may it be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. For additional discussion of FNCB’s current legal matters, refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. FNCB’s disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting may not achieve their intended objectives.. FNCB maintains disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure the timely filing of reports as specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission. FNCB also maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting. These controls may not achieve their intended objectives. Control processes that involve human diligence and compliance, such as its disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, are subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Controls can also be circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Because of such limitations, there are risks that material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected and that information may not be reported on a timely basis. If FNCB’s controls are not effective, it could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations, and market for its common stock, and could subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny.. 15. The price of FNCB’s common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock at a time or price they find attractive.. FNCB’s common stock per share price may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond its control. These factors include, in addition to those described above:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in operating results and financial condition;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to FNCB or other financial institutions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tspeculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to FNCB’s reputation or the financial services industry;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstrategic actions by FNCB or its competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, dispositions or financings;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in the stock price and operating results of FNCB’s competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfuture sales of FNCB’s equity or equity-related securities;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tanticipated or pending investigations, proceedings, audits or litigation that involve or affect FNCB;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdomestic and international economic factors unrelated to FNCB’s performance; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry.. During 2017, the per share closing bid price of FNCB’s common stock on the OTCQX Marketplace (“OTCQX”) ranged from a low of $6.05 on January 5, 2017, to a high of $8.13 on May 24, 2017.. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect FNCB’s share price, notwithstanding its operating results. Management expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate and there can be no assurances about the levels of the market prices for its common stock.. An active public market for FNCB’s common stock does not currently exist. As a result, shareholders may not be able to quickly and easily sell their shares of common stock.. Until March 5, 2018, FNCB’s shares of common stock were quoted on the OTCQX.  An average of 5,669 shares of FNCB’s common stock traded on the OTCQX during 2017 on a daily basis. On March 5, 2018, FNCB’s shares of common stock began trading on The Nasdaq Capital Market®.  An active, liquid market for FNCB’s shares of common stock has not previously existed, and there can be no assurance that an active and liquid market will develop, or if one does develop, if it can be maintained. The absence of an active trading market may make it difficult for FNCB shareholders to sell FNCB’s shares of common stock at the prevailing price when desired or at all, particularly in large quantities. For a further discussion, see Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. New or changed legislation or regulation and regulatory initiatives could adversely affect FNCB through increased regulation and increased costs of doing business.. Changes in federal and state legislation and regulation may affect FNCB’s operations. New and modified regulations, such as the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, may have unforeseen or unintended consequences on the banking industry. The Dodd-Frank Act has implemented significant changes to the U.S. financial system, including the creation of new regulatory agencies (such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council to oversee systemic risk and the CFPB to develop and enforce rules for consumer financial products), changes in retail banking regulations, and changes to deposit insurance assessments. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act has implemented new requirements with respect to “qualified mortgages” and new mortgage servicing standards have, and may continue to, increase costs associated with this business. For a more detailed description, see the section entitled “Business – The Bank – Consumer Financial Protection Bureau” included in Item 1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 16. Additionally, final rules to implement Basel III adopted in July 2013 revise risk-based and leverage capital requirements and limit capital distributions and certain discretionary bonuses if a banking organization does not hold the required “capital conservation buffer.” The rule became effective for FNCB on January 1, 2015, with some additional transition periods. This additional regulation could increase compliance costs and otherwise adversely affect operations. For a more detailed description of the final rules, see the description in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Capital Adequacy Requirements”. The potential also exists for additional federal or state laws or regulations, or changes in policy or interpretations, affecting many of FNCB’s operations, including capital levels, lending and funding practices, insurance assessments, and liquidity standards. The effect of any such changes and their interpretation and application by regulatory authorities cannot be predicted, may increase FNCB’s cost of doing business and otherwise affect FNCB’s operations, may significantly affect the markets in which it does business, and could have a materially adverse effect on FNCB.. FNCB is also subject to the guidelines under the GLB Act. The GLB Act guidelines require, among other things, that each financial institution develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution’s activities and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. In recent years there also has been increasing enforcement activity in the areas of privacy, information security and data protection in the United States, including at the federal level. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations regarding the privacy, security and protection of customer and employee data could result in higher compliance and technology costs. In addition, non-compliance could result in potentially significant fines, penalties and damage to FNCB’s reputation and brand.. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings.. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of financial statements. These changes can materially impact how FNCB records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some instances, FNCB could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements.. Compliance Risk. FNCB is subject to extensive government regulation, supervision and possible regulatory enforcement actions, which may subject it to higher costs and lower shareholder returns.. The banking industry is subject to extensive regulation and supervision that govern almost all aspects of its operations. The extensive regulatory framework is primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance fund and depositors, not shareholders. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations can be difficult and costly and, in some instances, may put banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, mortgage banking companies, leasing companies and internet-based Fintech companies. FNCB’s regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including with respect to the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank or a bank holding company, the imposition of significant fines, the ability to delay or deny merger or other regulatory applications, the classification of assets by a bank, and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses, among other matters. If they deem FNCB to be operating in a manner inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices, these regulatory authorities can require the entry into informal and formal supervisory agreements, including board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, settlement agreements and consent or cease and desist orders, pursuant to which FNCB would be required to implement identified corrective actions to address cited concerns and/or to refrain from taking certain actions in the form of injunctive relief. In recent years, the banking industry has faced increased regulation and scrutiny; for instance, areas such as BSA compliance (including BSA and related anti-money laundering regulations) and real estate-secured consumer lending (such as Truth-in-Lending regulations, changes in Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act regulations, implementation of licensing and registration requirements for mortgage originators and more recently, heightened regulatory attention to mortgage and foreclosure-related activities and exposures) are being confronted with escalating regulatory expectations and scrutiny. Non-compliance with laws and regulations such as these, even in cases of inadvertent non-compliance, could result in litigation, significant fines and/or sanctions. Any failure to comply with, or any change in, any applicable regulation and supervisory requirement, or change in regulation or enforcement by such authorities, whether in the form of policies, regulations, legislation, rules, orders, enforcement actions, or decisions, could have a material impact on FNCB, the Bank and other affiliates, and its operations. Federal economic and monetary policy may also affect FNCB’s ability to attract deposits and other funding sources, make loans and investments, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. Any failure to comply with such regulation or supervision could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on FNCB’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, compliance with any such action could distract management’s attention from FNCB’s operations, cause it to incur significant expenses, restrict it from engaging in potentially profitable activities and limit its ability to raise capital.. 17. Strategic Risk. FNCB may need to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed and on terms favorable to current shareholders.. Laws, regulations and banking regulators require FNCB and the Bank to maintain adequate levels of capital to support their operations. In addition, capital levels are determined by FNCB’s management and Board of Directors based on capital levels that they believe are necessary to support business operations. Management regularly evaluates its present and future capital requirements and needs and analyzes capital raising alternatives and options. Although FNCB succeeded in meeting its current regulatory capital requirements, it may need to raise additional capital in the future to support growth, possible loan losses or potential OTTI during future periods, to meet future regulatory capital requirements or for other reasons.. The Board of Directors may determine from time to time that FNCB needs to raise additional capital by issuing additional shares of common stock or other securities. FNCB is not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. Because FNCB’s decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond its control, FNCB cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings, or the prices at which such offerings may be affected. Such offerings will likely be dilutive to common shareholders from ownership, earnings and book value perspectives. New investors also may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to, and that adversely affect, its then current common shareholders. Additionally, if FNCB raises additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, upon liquidation, holders of its debt securities and shares of preferred shares, and lenders with respect to other borrowings, will receive distributions of available assets prior to the holders of common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of existing shareholders or reduce the market price of FNCB’s common stock, or both. Holders of FNCB’s common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution.. FNCB cannot provide any assurance that additional capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit access to the capital markets may adversely affect FNCB’s capital costs and its ability to raise capital and, in turn, its liquidity. Moreover, if FNCB needs to raise capital, it may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on FNCB’s business, financial condition and results of operations.. Reputation Risk. Damage to FNCB’s reputation could significantly harm its businesses, competitive position and prospects for growth.. FNCB’s ability to attract and retain investors, customers, clients, and employees could be adversely affected by damage to our reputation resulting from various sources, including employee misconduct, litigation, or regulatory outcomes; failure to deliver minimum standards of service and quality; compliance failures; unethical behavior; unintended breach of confidential information; and the activities of our clients, customers, and/or counterparties. Actions by the financial services industry in general, or by certain entities or individuals within it, also could have a significantly adverse impact on our reputation.. FNCB’s actual or perceived failure to identify and address various issues, including failure to properly address operational risks, could also give rise to reputational risk that could negatively impact business prospects. These issues include legal and regulatory requirements; consumer protection, fair lending, and privacy issues; properly maintaining customer and associated personal information; record keeping; protecting against money laundering; sales and trading practices; and ethical issues."                                                                                                                       
