[1] "ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS. In conducting our business, we face many risks that may interfere with our business objectives. Some of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, industry, business and financial conditions. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.. 20. You should carefully consider the following factors and other information in this annual report. If any of the negative events referred to below occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. In any such case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We are largely dependent on the success of our lead product candidates, FMX101 and FMX103 for the treatment of acne and rosacea.. We have invested a majority of our efforts and financial resources in the research and development of FMX101 for the treatment of moderate-to-severe acne and FMX103 for the treatment of moderate-to-severe papulopustular rosacea, which have both completed Phase II clinical trials. We continue to dedicate our resources toward (i) announcing top-line results from our third pivotal Phase III clinical trial for FMX101 in the third quarter of 2018 and filing a new drug application, or NDA, with the FDA by the end of the first half of 2019; (ii) announcing top-line results from our two pivotal Phase III clinical trials for FMX103 by the end of the third quarter or in the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2018 and completing such trials in 2019; and (iii) advancing our other pipeline candidates. The success of our business depends largely on our ability to fund, execute and complete the development of, obtain regulatory approval for and successfully commercialize FMX101 and FMX103 in a timely manner. If we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain adequate funding to continue to operate our business.. We have not finalized our Phase III clinical programs for any of our product candidates, nor have we applied for regulatory approvals to market any of our product candidates, and we may be delayed in obtaining or fail to obtain such regulatory approvals and to commercialize our product candidates.. The process of developing, obtaining regulatory approval for and commercializing our product candidates is long, complex, costly and uncertain, and delays or failure can occur at any stage, as evident from our recent experience.  In March 2017 we suffered a setback in our Phase III clinical program for FMX101 for treatment of moderate-to-severe acne, following the announcement of mixed top-line results from our two pivotal Phase III clinical trials in this product candidate, known as Studies 04 and 05. Although FMX101 demonstrated statistical significance compared to vehicle on the co-primary endpoint of absolute reduction in inflammatory lesions in both Studies 04 and 05, and further demonstrated statistical significance in the co-primary endpoint of investigator global assessment (IGA) treatment success compared to baseline in Study 04 and on a pooled analysis basis, FMX101 failed to demonstrate statistical significance in the co-primary endpoint of IGA treatment success on a standalone basis in Study 05.  Consequently, we were compelled to launch a third pivotal Phase III clinical trial for FMX101, in which we are seeking to replicate the results of Study 04 in a larger patient population and confirm the efficacy of FMX101, in order to proceed with the filing of an NDA for this lead product candidate.. Furthermore, the research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, sale and distribution of drugs are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA, and foreign regulatory agencies. These regulations are agency-specific and differ by jurisdiction. We are not permitted to market any of our product candidates in the U.S. until we receive approval of a NDA, from the FDA, or in any foreign countries until we receive the requisite approval from the respective regulatory agencies in such countries. To gain approval of an NDA or other equivalent regulatory approval, we must provide the FDA or relevant foreign regulatory authority with clinical data that demonstrates the continued safety, purity and potency of the product for the intended indication.. Before we can submit an NDA to the FDA or similar applications to foreign regulatory authorities, for FMX101 or FMX103, our leading product candidates, we must complete Phase III clinical trials for them. These clinical trials are substantially broader than our Phase II clinical trials and have required (or will require) us to enlist a considerably larger number of patients in multiple clinics and medical centers. We have not received formal regulatory clearance to file an NDA with the FDA or comparable applications to foreign regulatory authorities. Our other product candidates are at earlier stages of development and therefore subject to similar or even greater uncertainty and risk than FMX101 and FMX103.. Phase III clinical trials often produce unsatisfactory results even though prior clinical trials were successful, as we have witnessed in the case of Study 04 for FMX101 as described above.  Moreover, the results of clinical trials may be unsatisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities even if we believe those clinical trials to be successful. The FDA or applicable foreign regulatory agencies may suspend one or all of our clinical trials or require that we conduct additional clinical, nonclinical, manufacturing, validation or drug product quality studies and submit that data before considering or reconsidering any NDA or similar foreign regulatory application we may submit. Depending on the extent of these additional studies, approval of any applications that we submit may be significantly delayed, or may require us to expend more resources than we have available.  It is also possible that additional studies we conduct may not be considered sufficient by the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory agencies to provide regulatory approval.. If any of these outcomes occur, we would not receive approval for FMX101, FMX103 or our other product candidates and may be forced to cease operations.. 21. We have conducted only one Phase II clinical trial relating to each of FMX102, FMX103 and FDX104, in each case outside the U.S., the results of which may not be predictive of future trial results.. Positive results in preclinical testing and early clinical trials do not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. We suffered a significant setback in our Phase III clinical trials for FMX101 with regard to one of the two co-primary endpoints in one of these two trials, and other pharmaceutical companies have had similar experiences in their Phase III clinical trials after demonstrating promising results in preclinical testing and early clinical trials. These setbacks have included negative safety and efficacy observations in later clinical trials, including previously unreported adverse events, though we have not encountered such issues to date.. To date, we have conducted only one Phase II clinical trial for each of FMX102, FMX103 and FDX104 which met their respective primary efficacy and secondary endpoints. Our Phase III clinical trials for our lead product candidates may not be successful, and even if they are, the FDA may not approve our NDA for such product candidates, should we be in position to file one, and may not agree that the benefits of such product candidates outweigh its risks, or may raise new concerns regarding our clinical trial designs.. If the FDA does not conclude that FMX101 or FMX103 satisfy the requirements under Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetics Act, or Section 505(b)(2), or if the requirements for this product candidate under Section 505(b)(2) are not as we expect, the approval pathway for this product candidate will likely take significantly longer, cost significantly more and entail significantly greater complications and risks than anticipated, and in either case may not be successful.. We expect to complete our pivotal Phase III trials for FMX101 and we have commenced pivotal Phase III trials for FMX103 under the FDA's 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, also known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, added Section 505(b)(2) to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA. Section 505(b)(2) permits the filing of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies that were not conducted by or for the applicant, and for which the applicant has not received a right of reference, which could expedite the development program for FMX101 and FMX103 by potentially decreasing the amount of clinical data that we would need to generate in order to obtain FDA approval. If the FDA does not allow us to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, we may need to conduct additional clinical trials, provide additional data and information, and meet additional standards for regulatory approval. If this were to occur, the time and financial resources required to obtain FDA approval for these product candidates, and complications and risks associated with these product candidates, would likely increase significantly. Moreover, inability to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway could result in new competitive products reaching the market more quickly than our product candidates, which would likely harm our competitive position and prospects. Even if we are allowed to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, our product candidates may not receive the requisite approvals for commercialization.. In addition, notwithstanding the approval of certain products by the FDA under Section 505(b)(2) over the last few years, certain competitors and others have objected to the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) is successfully challenged, the FDA may be required to change its 505(b)(2) policies and practices, which could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any NDA that we submit under Section 505(b)(2). In addition, the pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, and Section 505(b)(2) NDAs are subject to special requirements designed to protect the patent rights of sponsors of previously approved drugs that are referenced in a Section 505(b)(2) NDA. These requirements may give rise to patent litigation and mandatory delays in approval of our NDAs for up to 30 months depending on the outcome of any litigation. It is not uncommon for a manufacturer of an approved product to file a citizen petition with the FDA seeking to delay approval of, or impose additional approval requirements for, pending competing products. If successful, such petitions can significantly delay, or even prevent, the approval of the new product. However, even if the FDA ultimately denies such a petition, the FDA may substantially delay approval while it considers and responds to the petition. In addition, even if we are able to utilize the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway for FMX101 and FMX103, there is no guarantee this would ultimately lead to faster product development or earlier approval.. Moreover, even if these product candidates are approved under Section 505(b)(2), the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to other conditions of approval, or may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the products.. Our Phase III clinical trials for FMX101 and our Phase II clinical trials for the other product candidates were not conducted head-to-head with the current standard of care drugs, the comparison of our results to those of existing drugs, and the conclusions we have drawn from such comparisons, may be inaccurate, and the FDA may require our Phase III trials to be controlled against such drugs.. None of our initial two Phase III clinical trials for FMX101 or Phase II clinical trial for FMX103, nor our third Phase III trial for FMX101 or our two Phase III trials for FMX103 which are currently under way, were or are being conducted in head-to-head comparison with the drugs considered the current standard of care for the relevant indications, namely Solodyn for moderate-to-severe acne, Bactroban for impetigo, topical antimicrobials (such as such as Metrogel, generic metronidazole and Finacea) for rosacea and oral doxycycline for chemotherapy induced rash. This means that none of the patient groups participating in these trials were or are being treated with the standard of care drugs alongside the groups treated with our product candidates. Instead, we have compared the results of our clinical trials with historical data from prior clinical trials conducted for the standard of care drugs, as presented in their respective product labels.. 22. Direct comparison generally provides more reliable information about how two or more drugs compare, and reliance on indirect comparison for evaluating their relative efficacy or other qualities is problematic due to lack of objective or validated methods to assess trial similarity. For example, the various trials were likely conducted in different countries with different demographic features and in patients with different baseline conditions and different hygiene standards, among other relevant asymmetries. Therefore, the conclusions we have drawn from comparing the results of our trials with those published in the product labels for these current standards of care drugs, including conclusions regarding the relative efficacy and expediency of FMX101, FMX102, FMX103 and FDX104, may be distorted by the inaccurate methodology of the comparison.. The FDA may require the Phase III clinical trials of our product candidates to be controlled against the drugs that are currently considered the standards of care for the treatment of the relevant indications, instead of being controlled against a placebo or against a different dosage of our minocycline foam, as was the case in our Phase II clinical trials. Furthermore, even if the FDA does not impose such a requirement in connection with our Phase III clinical trials, the FDA generally requires adequate, well-controlled head-to-head clinical trials to support comparative claims regarding marketed products. As a result, we may decide to conduct comparative studies of FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates that are commercialized to support comparative claims used in the marketing of those product candidates. Significant additional time and expense will be required to design and conduct any head-to-head trials. For example, in the case of FMX101 for moderate-to-severe acne, the standard of care is an oral drug, Solodyn, whereas FMX101 is a topical drug. To conduct a double blind study comparing the two treatments, all patients would need to receive both modalities, with either the oral or topical treatment consisting of a placebo, increasing the complexity and cost. If we are unable to conduct head-to-head trials for one or more of our product candidates, even if such product candidates are approved for marketing in the U.S., we will not be able to make claims comparing such product candidates to the current standards of care or other competitor products which may negatively impact sales of these products.. Our ability to finance our operations and generate revenues depends on the clinical and commercial success of FMX101, FMX103 and our other product candidates and failure to achieve such success will negatively impact our business.. Our near-term prospects, including our ability to finance our operations and generate revenues, depend on the successful development, regulatory approval and commercialization of FMX101 and FMX103, as well as our other product candidates. The clinical and commercial success of FMX101, FMX103 and our other product candidates depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. ·  the FDA's and foreign regulatory agencies' acceptance of our parameters for regulatory approval relating to FMX101, FMX103 and our other product candidates, including our proposed indications, primary endpoint assessments, primary endpoint measurements and regulatory pathways;. ·  the FDA's and foreign regulatory agencies' acceptance of the number, design, size, conduct and implementation of our clinical trials, our trial protocols and the interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials;. ·  the FDA's and foreign regulatory agencies' acceptance of the sufficiency of the data we collected from our preclinical studies and early clinical trials of FMX101 and FMX103 to support the submission of an NDA or similar foreign regulatory application without requiring additional preclinical or clinical trials;. ·  the FDA's and foreign regulatory agencies' willingness to schedule an advisory committee meeting in a timely manner to evaluate and decide on the approval of our NDA or similar foreign regulatory application;. ·  the recommendation of the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies' advisory committee to approve our application without limiting the approved labeling, specifications, distribution or use of the products, or imposing other restrictions;. ·  the FDA's and foreign regulatory agencies' willingness to grant separate approvals for adults and children, where we may have successful clinical trial results for children but not for adults, or vice versa;. ·  the FDA's and foreign regulatory agencies' satisfaction with the safety and efficacy of FMX101 and FMX103 or our other product candidates;. ·  the prevalence and severity of adverse events associated with FMX101, FMX103 and our other product candidates;. ·  the timely and satisfactory performance by third party contractors of their obligations in relation to our clinical trials, including any future Phase III clinical trials for FMX101 and FMX103;. ·  our success in educating dermatologists, pediatricians and patients about the benefits, administration and use of FMX101, FMX103 and our other product candidates, if approved;. ·  our ability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in order to achieve our goals;. 23. ·  the availability, perceived advantages, relative cost, safety and efficacy of alternative and competing treatments;. ·  the effectiveness of our marketing, sales and distribution strategy and operations, as well as that of our current and future licensees;. ·  our ability to develop, validate and maintain a commercially viable manufacturing process that is compliant with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP;. ·  our ability to obtain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights with respect to FMX101 or our other product candidates;. ·  our ability to bring an action timely for patent infringement arising out of the filing of ANDAs by generic companies seeking approval to market generic versions of our products before the expiry of our patents; and. ·  our ability to avoid third party claims of patent infringement or intellectual property violations.. If we fail to achieve these objectives or to overcome the challenges presented above, many of which are beyond our control, in a timely manner, we could experience significant delays or an inability to successfully commercialize our product candidates. Accordingly, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues through the sale of FMX101 or our other product candidates to enable us to continue our business.. We may encounter delays in completing clinical trials for FMX101, FMX103 and our other product candidates and may even be prevented from commencing such trials due to factors that are largely beyond our control.. We have in the past and may in the future experience delays in completing our ongoing clinical trials and in commencing future clinical trials. We have already experienced significant delays in our Phase III clinical program for FMX101 for acne, first due to quality control issues with certain active ingredients supplied to us by a third party and more recently due to insufficient results in one of the co-primary endpoints, namely IGA treatment success, in one of the two Phase III trials. We have also experienced a delay in our Phase II clinical trial with FMX102 for impetigo that took place in Israel, due to our difficulty in enrolling a sufficient number of pediatric patients with the necessary severity of the disease to participate in the trial. Such difficulties may arise again in future trials for other indications and for our other product candidates.. We rely on contract research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites to ensure the proper and timely conduct of our clinical trials. While we have agreements governing the committed activities of our CROs, we have limited influence over their actual performance. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. Clinical trials can be delayed or aborted for a variety of other reasons, including delay or failure to:. ·  obtain regulatory approval to commence a trial;. ·  reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and clinical trial sites, the terms of which may be subject to extensive negotiation and vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites;. ·  obtain institutional review board, or IRB, approval at each site;. ·  enlist suitable patients to participate in a trial;. ·  have patients complete a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up;. ·  ensure clinical sites observe trial protocol or continue to participate in a trial;. ·  address any patient safety concerns that arise during the course of a trial;. ·  address any conflicts with new or existing laws or regulations;. ·  add a sufficient number of clinical trial sites; or. ·  manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for use in clinical trials.. Patient enrollment is also a significant factor in the timing of clinical trials and is affected by many factors, including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials and clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages of the drug being studied in relation to available alternatives, including any new drugs or treatments that may be approved for the indications we are investigating.. We may also encounter delays if a clinical trial is suspended or terminated by us, by the IRBs of the institutions in which such trials are being conducted, by the trial's data safety monitoring board, by the FDA or by the applicable foreign regulatory authorities. Such authorities may suspend or terminate one or more of our clinical trials due to a number of factors, including our failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with relevant regulatory requirements or clinical protocols, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a drug, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial.. If we experience delays in carrying out or completing any clinical trial of our product candidates, the commercial prospects of our product candidates may be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these product candidates will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product candidate development and approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. Any of these occurrences may significantly harm our business and financial condition. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates.. 24. FMX101, FMX103 and other product candidates may produce undesirable side effects that we may not have detected in our Phase II clinical trials or initial Phase III trials. This could prevent us from gaining marketing approval or market acceptance for this product candidate, or from maintaining such approval and acceptance, and could substantially increase commercialization costs and even force us to cease operations.. FMX101 and FMX103 have so far been shown in Phase I and Phase II to have no drug-related systemic side effects and only a few cases of mild and temporary skin reactions have been reported, most of which disappeared on their own within 12 weeks from the beginning of the treatment. FMX101 has further demonstrated this safety profile in its initial Phase III trials and extended open-label safety study.  Nonetheless, in further Phase III clinical trials, which involve large patient populations, and upon commercialization of FMX101, FMX103 or other product candidates, if approved, the clinical exposure of the drugs will be significantly expanded to a wider and more diverse group of patients than those participating in the clinical trials, which may reveal undesirable side effects caused by these products that were not previously observed or reported in the current clinical trials.. The FDA and foreign regulatory agency regulations require that we report certain information about adverse medical events if our products may have caused or contributed to those adverse events. The timing of our obligation to report would be triggered by the date on which we become aware of the adverse event as well as the nature of the event. We may fail to report adverse events we become aware of within the prescribed timeframe. We may also fail to appreciate that we have become aware of a reportable adverse event, especially if it is not reported to us as an adverse event or if it is an adverse event that is unexpected or removed in time from the use of our products. If we fail to comply with our reporting obligations, the FDA or a foreign regulatory agency could take action including criminal prosecution, the imposition of civil monetary penalties or seizure of our products.. Additionally, in the event we discover the existence of adverse medical events or side effects caused by one of our product candidates, a number of other potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. ·  the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may suspend or withdraw their approval of the product;. ·  the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as warnings or contraindications or distribution and use restrictions;. ·  the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may require us to issue specific communications to healthcare professionals, such as letters alerting them to new safety information about our product, changes in dosage or other important information;. ·  the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may issue negative publicity regarding the affected product, including safety communications;. ·  we may be limited with respect to the safety-related claims that we can make in our marketing or promotional materials;. ·  we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials or restrict or cease the distribution or use of the product; and. ·  we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product candidate and could substantially increase commercialization costs or even force us to cease operations.. Even if FMX101, FMX103 or our other product candidates receive marketing approval, we may continue to face future developmental and regulatory difficulties. In addition, we are subject to government regulations and we may experience delays in obtaining required regulatory approvals to market our proposed product candidates.. Even if we complete clinical testing and receive approval of any regulatory filing for FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates, the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory agency may grant approval contingent on the performance of additional costly post-approval clinical trials, risk mitigation requirements and surveillance requirements to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product, which could negatively impact us by reducing revenues or increasing expenses, and cause the approved product candidate not to be commercially viable. Absence of long-term safety data may further limit the approved uses of our products, if any.. The FDA or applicable foreign regulatory agency may also approve FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates for a more limited indication or a narrower patient population than we originally requested, or may not approve the labeling that we believe is necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. Furthermore, any such approved product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements, including requirements relating to manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, distribution and recordkeeping.. 25. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA or other applicable foreign regulatory authorities, or previously unknown problems with any approved commercial products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions or other setbacks, including the following:. ·  suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements;. ·  refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications;. ·  suspend any ongoing clinical trials;. ·  suspend or withdraw marketing approval;. ·  seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines;. ·  seize or detain products;. ·  ban or restrict imports and exports;. ·  issue warning letters or untitled letters;. ·  suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or. ·  refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications.. In addition, various aspects of our operations are subject to federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations, any of which may change from time to time. Costs arising out of any regulatory developments could be time-consuming and expensive and could divert management resources and attention and, consequently, could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance.. Even if FMX101, FMX103 or our other product candidates receive regulatory approval, they may fail to achieve the broad degree of physician adoption and use and market acceptance necessary for commercial success.. Even if we obtain FDA or foreign regulatory approvals for FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates, the commercial success of such products will depend significantly on their broad adoption and use by dermatologists, pediatricians and other physicians for approved indications, including, in the case of FMX101 and FMX103, for the treatment of moderate-to-severe acne, moderate-to-sever rosacea and other therapeutic indications that we may seek to pursue.. Moreover, if the treatment of acne with FMX101 or rosacea with FMX103 is deemed to be an elective procedure, the cost of which is borne by the patient, it will not be reimbursable through government or private health insurance.. The degree and rate of physician and patient adoption of FMX101, FMX103 and any of our other product candidates, if approved, will depend on a number of factors, including:. ·  the clinical indications for which the product is approved;. ·  the safety and efficacy of our product as compared to existing therapies for those indications;. ·  the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects;. ·  patient satisfaction with the results and administration of our product and overall treatment experience, including relative convenience, ease of use and avoidance of, or reduction in, adverse side effects;. ·  patient demand for the treatment of moderate-to-severe acne and rosacea or other indications;. ·  overcoming biases of physicians and patients towards topical treatments for moderate-to-severe acne, rosacea or other indications and their willingness to adopt new therapies for these indications;. ·  the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments, the extent to which these costs are reimbursed by third party payors, and patients' willingness to pay for our products;. ·  proper training and administration of our products by dermatologists, pediatricians and medical staff;. ·  the revenues and profitability that our products will offer physicians as compared to alternative therapies; and. ·  the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, especially the success of any targeted marketing efforts directed toward dermatologists, pediatricians, other physicians, clinics and any direct-to-consumer marketing efforts we may initiate.. We may decide not to continue developing or commercializing any of our product candidates at any time during development or after approval, which would reduce or eliminate our potential return on investment for those product candidates.. We may decide to discontinue the development of any of our product candidates in our pipeline or not to continue to commercialize any of our product candidates for a variety of reasons, such as the appearance of new technologies that make our product less commercially viable, an increase in competition from generic or other competing products, changes in or failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the discovery of unforeseen side effects during clinical development or after the approved product has been marketed or the occurrence of adverse events at a rate or severity level that is greater than experienced in prior clinical trials. If we discontinue a program in which we have invested significant resources, such as our decision to discontinue further in-house development of FMX102 for the treatment of impetigo and FDX104 for the treatment of chemotherapy induced rash, we will not receive any return on our investment and we will have missed the opportunity to have allocated those resources to other product candidates in our pipeline that may have had potentially more productive uses.. If FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates are approved for use but fail to achieve the broad degree of physician adoption and market acceptance necessary for commercial success, our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected.. Our ability to market FMX101 and FMX103, if approved, may be limited to use for the treatment of moderate-to-severe acne or moderate-to-severe rosacea, respectively, in the U.S., and if we want to expand the indications for which we may market FMX101 or the territories in which we may market these products, we will need to obtain additional regulatory approvals, which may not be granted.. 26. We plan to seek regulatory approval in the U.S. for FMX101 and FMX103 for the treatment of moderate-to-severe acne and moderate-to-severe rosacea, respectively, in the U.S. If FMX101 is approved, the FDA will likely restrict our ability to market or advertise FMX101 and FMX103 for other indications, which could limit physician and patient adoption. We may seek to promote and commercialize our products, FMX101 and FMX103, in Europe as well, by applying for marketing approval from the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, or in other jurisdictions, or we may develop new or additional uses or protocols for FMX101 or FMX103 in the future, but we may not receive the clearances required to do so. If we proceeded to submit for marketing approval in Europe we would likely be required to conduct additional clinical trials or studies to support approvals for such additional jurisdictions or indications, which would be time consuming and expensive, and may produce results that do not support regulatory approvals.. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The marketing approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. as well as other risks. In particular, in many countries outside the U.S., it is required that a product receives pricing and reimbursement approval before the product can be commercialized. This can result in substantial delays in such countries. In other countries, product approval depends on showing superiority to an approved alternative therapy. This may lead to conducting complex clinical trials that require additional significant resources.. None of our products are currently approved for sale in any jurisdiction, including the U.S. or any international markets. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements in the U.S. or any international market we decide to enter, or to obtain and maintain required approvals, or if regulatory approvals in the U.S. or the relevant international markets are delayed, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of our products will be harmed.. Marketing approval in one jurisdiction does not ensure marketing approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining marketing approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain a marketing approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval would impair our ability to develop foreign markets for FMX101 and FMX103. This would reduce our target market and limit the full commercial potential of FMX101 and FMX103.. If we are not successful in developing, acquiring regulatory approval for and commercializing additional product candidates beyond FMX101 or FMX103, our ability to expand our business and achieve our strategic objectives will be impaired.. Although we will devote a substantial portion of our resources on the continued clinical testing and potential approval of FMX101 for the treatment of moderate-to-severe acne and FMX103 for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rosacea, another key element of our strategy is to discover, develop and commercialize a portfolio of products based on our proprietary foam platforms to serve additional therapeutic markets. We are seeking to do so through our internal research programs, but our resources are limited, and those that we have are geared towards clinical testing and seeking regulatory approval for FMX101 and FMX103. We may also explore strategic collaborations for the development or acquisition of new products, but we may not be successful in entering into such relationships. While we have completed two initial Phase III clinical trials and commenced a third Phase III clinical trial for our lead product candidate, FMX101 for the treatment of moderate-to-severe acne, and have commenced two Phase III clinical trials for FMX103 for the treatment of rosacea, all of our other potential product candidates remain in earlier stages of development. Research programs to identify product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources, regardless of whether any product candidates are ultimately identified. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development for many reasons, including:. ·  the research methodology used may not be successful in identifying potential product candidates;. ·  competitors may develop alternatives that render our product candidates obsolete or less attractive;. ·  product candidates we develop may nevertheless be covered by third parties' patents or other proprietary rights;. ·  a product candidate may in a subsequent trial be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be effective or otherwise does not meet applicable regulatory criteria;. ·  a product candidate may not be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all;. ·  a product candidate may not be accepted as safe and effective by patients, the medical community or third party payors, if applicable;. ·  intellectual property rights, such as patents, which are necessary to protect our interests in a product candidate, may be difficult to obtain or unobtainable;. ·  intellectual property rights, such as patents, may fail to provide adequate protection, may be challenged and one or more claims may be revoked or the patent may be held to be invalid;  and. ·  intellectual property rights of third parties may potentially block our entry into certain markets, or make such entry economically impracticable.. 27. If we fail to develop and successfully commercialize other product candidates, our business and future prospects may be harmed and our business will be more vulnerable to any problems that we encounter in developing and commercializing FMX101 and FMX103.. Our product candidates, if approved, will face significant competition and our failure to compete effectively may prevent us from achieving significant market penetration and expansion.. If we receive marketing approval, the expected indication of FMX101 will be moderate-to-severe acne and the expected indication of FMX103 will be moderate-to-severe rosacea. The facial aesthetic market in general, and the market for acne treatments in particular, is highly competitive and dynamic, and is characterized by rapid and substantial technological development and product innovations. FMX101, if approved, may face significant competition from other acne products, including oral drugs such as Solodyn, Doryx, Dynacin, Acticlate and Minocin, and topical anti-acne drugs such as Acanya, Ziana, Epiduo, Benzaclin, Aczone and Differin. FMX103, if approved, may face significant competition from other rosacea products, including oral drugs such as Oracea®, and topical anti-rosacea drugs such as Metrogel, Soolantra and Finacea, all of which have been approved for marketing and are available to consumers. If approved, FMX101 and FMX103 may also compete with non-prescription anti-acne and rosacea products and unapproved and off-label treatments.. There are also several potential competing products currently under development. One of such potential competing products is a new topical gel suspension containing minocycline non-hydrochloride for the treatment of inflammatory skin disease, including acne and rosacea, developed by Hovione, a manufacturer of active pharmaceutical ingredients and drug product intermediates, which product is currently undergoing a Phase II clinical trial for the treatment of moderate-to-severe papulopustular rosacea.  Another such potential competing product is a topical hydrophilic gel containing minocycline hydrochloride for the treatment of acne, known as BPX-01, developed by BioPharmX Corporation, for which BioPharmX has completed Phase IIa and Phase IIb clinical trials and has obtained FDA approval for the design of a planned Phase III clinical trial.  BioPharmX also announced interim results of a feasibility study with BPX-01 for treatment of rosacea, later renamed BPX-04.  If ultimately approved and launched in the U.S., these products would become direct competitors to FMX101 and FMX103.. To compete successfully in the acne and rosacea treatment markets, we will have to demonstrate that FMX101 is safe and effective for the treatment of moderate-to-severe acne and FMX103 is safe and effective for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rosacea, and that they do not infringe the intellectual property rights of any third parties. Competing in the acne and rosacea markets could result in price-cutting, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Due to less stringent regulatory requirements, there are many more acne products and procedures available for use in international markets than are approved for use in the U.S. There are also fewer limitations on the claims that our competitors in international markets can make about the effectiveness of their products and the manner in which they can market them. As a result, we may face more competition in these markets than in the U.S.. In addition, even if we are able to commercialize our product candidates, we may not be able to price them competitively with current standard of care products or their price may drop considerably due to factors outside our control. If this happens or the price of materials and manufacture increases dramatically, our ability to continue to operate our business would be materially harmed and we may be unable to commercialize FMX101 or FMX103 successfully.. Other pharmaceutical companies may develop competing products for acne, rosacea and other indications we are pursuing and enter the market ahead of us.. Other pharmaceutical companies are engaged in developing, patenting, manufacturing and marketing healthcare products that compete with those that we are developing. These potential competitors include large and experienced companies that enjoy significant competitive advantages over us, such as greater financial, research and development, manufacturing, personnel and marketing resources, greater brand recognition and more experience and expertise in obtaining marketing approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities.. Several of these potential competitors are privately-owned companies that are not bound by public disclosure requirements and closely guard their development plans, marketing strategies and other trade secrets. Publicly-traded pharmaceutical companies are also able to maintain a certain degree of confidentiality over their pipeline developments and other sensitive information. As a result, we do not know whether these potential competitors are already developing, or plan to develop, foam-based or other topical treatments for acne, rosacea, impetigo or other indications we are pursuing, and we will likely be unable to ascertain whether such activities are underway in the future. These potential competitors may therefore introduce competing products without our prior knowledge and without our ability to take preemptive measures in anticipation of their commercial launch.. 28. In this regard we became aware at the end of 2014 that an active pharmaceutical ingredient and drug product intermediate manufacturer, Hovione, has submitted an IND for Phase I and II clinical trials of a new topical product containing minocycline for the treatment of inflammatory skin disease including acne and rosacea. Hovione is a privately-held company and we do not know if they have commenced a clinical trial for such new topical minocycline product. Hovione also currently manufactures and supplies Foamix with pharmaceutical-grade minocycline for use in FMX101, FMX103 and other products. Although we have not experienced unique difficulties in procuring minocycline from Hovione, we could experience such difficulties in the future. During 2015 we became aware that another company, BioPharmX Corporation (NYSE MKT: BPMX), is developing a topical hydrophilic gel containing minocycline for the treatment of acne, known as BPX-01, for which BioPharmX has announced Phase IIa clinical trial results. If ultimately approved and commercialized in the U.S., such products would become direct competitors of FMX101, FMX103 and other potential pipeline products.. Furthermore, such potential competitors may enter the market before us, and their products may be designed to circumvent our granted patents and pending patent applications. Potential competitors may also challenge, narrow, invalidate or seek to design around our granted patents or our patent applications, and such patents and patent applications may fail to provide adequate protection for our product candidates.. We have agreements with third party licensees to develop new product candidates for them utilizing our foam technology, and our ability to benefit from such product candidates could be impaired or delayed if our licensees' efforts to develop and commercialize these product candidates are unsuccessful.. In parallel to our core business focused on the development of FMX101, FMX103 and other product candidates, we are pursuing development and license agreements with various pharmaceutical companies for the development and commercialization of product candidates that combine our proprietary technology with the licensees' drugs for the treatment of various indications. These license agreements generally provide rights to the licensees for a single active pharmaceutical ingredient, and grant the licensee exclusivity in the development and commercialization of the specific licensed product candidates incorporating such active pharmaceutical ingredient. Our entitlement to contingent payments and royalties from such potential product candidates is therefore dependent upon the licensees' performance of their responsibilities and their continued cooperation in developing and commercializing the potential product candidates.. Our licensees may not cooperate with us or perform their obligations under our agreements with them. Furthermore, the obligations of the licensees under such agreements are, for the most part, limited to 'commercially reasonable efforts,' and they do not face penalties or other repercussions for failing to develop or commercialize the relevant product candidates within the designated timetable other than potentially forfeiting their rights to the relevant product candidate and assigning such rights to us. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to develop, manufacture or commercialize successfully any such product candidate assigned to us. We cannot control the scope or timing of the resources that will be devoted by our licensees to performing their responsibilities under our agreements with them. Our licensees may choose to pursue alternative technologies in preference to those being developed with us. Several of these agreements may also be terminated for convenience by the licensee. The development and commercialization of these licensed product candidates as well as the anticipated contingent payments and royalties we hope to generate from them will be delayed or never obtained if the licensees fail to conduct their responsibilities in a timely manner or in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, or if they breach their agreements with us. Disputes with our licensees could also impair our reputation or result in development delays, decreased revenues and litigation expenses.. We have granted several of our licensees the right to commercialize the licensed products for any indication, including acne and rosacea, which may allow them to compete against us using our own technology.. The licenses we granted to several of our licensees, with whom we are developing certain topical products based on our technology and the licensees' proprietary drugs, allow them to commercialize the developed products for any topical application, and not only for the specific indication for which each product was originally intended. If any such licensed products prove to be effective for moderate-to-severe acne, rosacea or any other indication that we are pursuing with FMX101, FMX103 or other product candidates, we may face competition from these licensed products, as the licensees are not bound by any non-compete restrictions.. Healthcare reforms by governmental authorities and related reductions in pharmaceutical pricing, reimbursement and coverage by third-party payors may adversely affect our business.. We expect the healthcare industry to face increased limitations on reimbursement, rebates and other payments as a result of healthcare reform, which could adversely affect third-party coverage of our products and how much or under what circumstances healthcare providers will prescribe or administer our products, if approved.. In both the U.S. and other countries, sales of our products, if approved for marketing, will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, which include governmental authorities, managed care organizations and other private health insurers. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services.. Increasing expenditures for healthcare have been the subject of considerable public attention in the U.S. Both private and government entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. Numerous proposals that would effect changes in the U.S. healthcare system have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures, including reducing reimbursement for prescription products and reducing the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products.. 29. Cost reduction initiatives and changes in coverage implemented through legislation or regulation could decrease utilization of and reimbursement for any approved products, which in turn would affect the price we can receive for those products. Any reduction in reimbursement that results from federal legislation or regulation may also result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors, as private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates.. Significant developments that may adversely affect pricing in the U.S. include the enactment of federal healthcare reform laws and regulations, including the ACA and the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003.  Changes to the healthcare system enacted as part of healthcare reform in the U.S., as well as the increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, may result in increased pricing pressure by influencing, for instance, the reimbursement policies of third-party payors. While healthcare reform legislation may have increased the number of patients who are expected to have insurance coverage for our product candidates, provisions such as the assessment of a branded pharmaceutical manufacturer fee and an increase in the amount of rebates that manufacturers pay for coverage of their drugs by Medicaid programs may have an adverse effect on us. It is uncertain how current and future reforms in these areas will influence the future of our business operations and financial condition.. In 2017, a new administration, which had promised to repeal and replace the ACA, took office in the U.S.  Although we cannot predict the form any such replacement of the ACA may take or the full effect on our business of the enactment of additional legislation pursuant to healthcare and other legislative reform, we believe that legislation or regulations that would reduce reimbursement for, or restrict coverage of, our products could adversely affect how much or under what circumstances healthcare providers will prescribe or administer our products. This could materially and adversely affect our business by reducing our ability to generate revenues, raise capital, obtain additional licensees and market our products. In addition, we believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of pharmaceutical products, which may adversely impact product sales.. It will be difficult for us to profitably sell FMX101, FMX103 or our other product candidates if reimbursement for these products is limited by government authorities and third-party payor policies.. In addition to any healthcare reform measures which may affect reimbursement, market acceptance and sales of FMX101, FMX103 and our other product candidates, if approved, will depend on the reimbursement policies of government authorities and third-party payors. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels.. A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and these third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. We cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for FMX101 or FMX103, or, if reimbursement is available, the level of reimbursement.. 30. Reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product for which we obtain marketing approval. In addition, third-party payors are likely to impose strict requirements for reimbursement in order to limit off-label use of a higher priced drug. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors including the third-party payor's determination that use of a product is:. ·  a covered benefit under its health plan;. ·  safe, effective and medically necessary;. ·  appropriate for the specific patient;. ·  cost-effective; and. ·  neither experimental nor investigational.. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from a government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost effectiveness data for the use of our products to the payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement. We cannot be sure that coverage or adequate reimbursement will be available for our product candidates, if approved. Also, we cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our future products. If reimbursement is not available, or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates, profitably or at all, even if approved.. Legislative or regulatory healthcare reforms in the U.S. may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory clearance or approval of our product candidates and to produce, market, and distribute our products after clearance or approval is obtained.. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulatory clearance or approval, manufacture, and marketing of regulated products or the reimbursement thereof. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations, statutes, legal interpretation or policies, when and if promulgated, enacted or adopted may have on our business in the future. Such changes could, among other things, require:. ·  changes to manufacturing methods;. ·  recall, replacement, or discontinuance of one or more of our products; and. ·  additional recordkeeping.. Each of these would likely entail substantial time and cost and could materially harm our business and our financial results.. We will require substantial additional financing to achieve our goals, and a failure to obtain this necessary capital when needed on acceptable terms, or at all, could force us to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development, other operations or commercialization efforts.. We anticipate that we will continue to expend substantial resources for the foreseeable future for the clinical development and regulatory approval for FMX101, FMX103. We also wish to continue the development of other indications and product candidates. However, we may not have sufficient funds to carry out and complete all of these plans, and may need to raise additional funds for such purposes.. These expenditures will include costs associated with research and development, conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, and manufacturing and supply, as well as marketing and selling any products approved for sale. In addition, other unanticipated costs may arise. Because the outcome of any clinical trial is highly uncertain, we cannot reasonably estimate the actual amounts necessary to successfully complete the development and commercialization of any of our product candidates.. We believe that the net proceeds from our initial and follow-on public offerings will allow us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements throughout the Phase III clinical trials for our lead product candidate, FMX101, for which we expect to announce top-line results in the third quarter of 2018 and to complete by the end of 2018. Such proceeds should also fund our Phase III clinical program for FMX103, for which we expect to announce top-line results by the end of the third quarter or in the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2018 and to complete in 2019.  However, our operating plan may change as a result of many factors currently unknown to us, as recently exhibited by our need to commence a third pivotal Phase III clinical trial for FMX101 due to inconclusive results in the co-primary endpoint of IGA treatment success in one of the two initial trials.  We may therefore need to seek additional capital sooner than planned, through public or private equity or debt financings or other sources, such as strategic collaborations or additional license arrangements. Such financings may result in dilution to shareholders, imposition of debt covenants and repayment obligations or other restrictions that may affect our business. In addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans.. 31. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including:. ·  the results of the clinical trials of our products candidates;. ·  the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates;. ·  the number and characteristics of any additional product candidates we develop or acquire;. ·  the scope, progress, results and costs of researching and developing our product candidates, and conducting preclinical and clinical trials;. ·  the cost of commercialization activities if any of our product candidates are approved for sale, including marketing, sales and distribution costs;. ·  the cost of manufacturing our product candidates and any products we successfully commercialize and maintaining our related facilities;. ·  our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations, licensing or other arrangements and the terms of and timing of such arrangements;. ·  the degree and rate of market acceptance of any future approved products;. ·  the emergence, approval, availability, perceived advantages, relative cost, relative safety and relative efficacy of alternative and competing products or treatments;. ·  any product liability or other lawsuits related to our products;. ·  the expenses needed to attract and retain skilled personnel;. ·  the costs associated with being a public company;. ·  the costs associated with evaluation of our product candidates;. ·  the costs associated with evaluation of third party intellectual property;. ·  the costs associated with obtaining and maintaining licenses;. ·  the costs associated with obtaining, protecting and enforcing intellectual property, such as costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims, litigation costs including the costs of litigation for patent infringement arising out of ANDA submissions by generic companies to manufacture and sell generic products and the outcome of such litigation; and. ·  the timing, receipt and amount of sales of, or royalties on, future approved products, if any.. Additional capital may not be available when we need it, on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, we may be required to:. ·  delay, limit, reduce or terminate preclinical studies, clinical trials or other development activities for FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates;. ·  delay, limit, reduce or terminate our research and development activities; or. ·  delay, limit, reduce or terminate our establishment of manufacturing, sales and marketing or distribution capabilities or other activities that may be necessary to commercialize FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates.. If we raise additional capital through marketing and distribution arrangements or other collaborations, strategic alliances or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish certain valuable rights to our product candidates, technologies, future revenue streams or research programs or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we raise additional capital through public or private equity offerings, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders will be diluted and the terms of any new equity securities may have a preference over our ordinary shares. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, we may be subject to covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt or making capital expenditures or specified financial ratios, any of which could restrict our ability to commercialize our product candidates or operate as a business.. We have a limited operating history and have incurred significant losses since our inception and we anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We have only four product candidates that have completed any clinical trials and have no sales, which, together with our limited operating history, make it difficult to assess our future commercial viability.. We are a small clinical-stage specialty pharmaceutical company with a limited operating history. Pharmaceutical product development is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of risk. We are not profitable and have incurred losses in each year since we commenced operations in 2003. We have only a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. In addition, we have limited experience and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the pharmaceutical industry.. 32. To date, we have not obtained any regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates or generated any revenues from product sales relating to FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates. We have generated revenues only from service payments, and contingent payments paid towards or in the course of projects carried out under several of our development and license agreements with various pharmaceutical companies. We have also received (and continue to receive) royalty payments with respect to Finacea®, a prescription foam product that we developed in collaboration with Bayer.. We continue to incur significant research and development and other expenses related to our ongoing clinical trials and operations. We have recorded a net loss of $65.7 million, $29.3 million and $16.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017 we had an accumulated deficit of $141.3 million and had a working capital surplus of $59.3 million. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we anticipate these losses will increase substantially as we continue our development of, and seek regulatory approvals for, FMX101, FMX103 and our other product candidates, and begin to commercialize such product candidates.. Our ability to achieve revenues and profitability is dependent on our ability to complete the development of our product candidates, obtain necessary regulatory approvals and successfully manufacture, market and commercialize our products. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. Our prior losses, combined with expected future losses, may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise capital and continue operations.. We currently contract with third party subcontractors and suppliers for certain compounds and components necessary to produce FMX101 and FMX103 for clinical trials and expect to continue to do so to support commercial scale production if one or more of such product candidates is approved. This increases the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of FMX101 and FMX103 or such quantities at an acceptable cost, which could delay, prevent or impair our development or commercialization efforts.. We currently rely on third party subcontractors and suppliers for certain compounds and components necessary to produce FMX101and FMX103 for our clinical trials, including minocycline and other active ingredients, excipients used in the formulation of the foam, delivery apparatus comprising canisters, valves and propellants. We expect to continue to rely on these or other subcontractors and suppliers to support our commercial requirements if FMX101 and FMX103 or any of our other product candidates is approved for marketing by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities.. Reliance on third party subcontractors and suppliers entails a number of risks, including reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, the possible breach of the manufacturing or supply agreement by the third party, the possibility that the supply is inadequate or delayed , the risk that the third party may enter the field and seek to compete and may no longer be willing to continue supplying, and the possible termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. In addition, third party subcontractors and suppliers may not be able to comply with cGMP or quality system regulation, or QSR, or similar regulatory requirements outside the U.S. If any of these risks transpire, we may be unable to timely retain alternate subcontractors or suppliers on acceptable terms and with sufficient quality standards and production capacity, which may disrupt and delay our clinical trials or the manufacture and commercial sale of our product candidates, if approved.. Our failure or the failure of our third party subcontractors and suppliers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our product candidates that we may develop.. Although we have not experienced unique difficulties in procuring compounds and components for FMX101, FMX103 or any other product candidates, and while we are acting to secure additional suppliers for such compounds and components, we could experience such difficulties in the future.. We will rely on third parties and consultants to assist us in conducting our trials and studies. If these third parties or consultants will not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates.. We do not have the ability to independently perform all aspects of our preclinical studies and clinical trials. We will rely on medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories, collaborative partners and other third parties, such as CROs, to assist us in conducting our Phase III clinical trials for FMX101, FMX103 and studies and clinical trials for our other product candidates. The third parties with whom we contract for execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of these trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. However, these third parties are not our employees, and except for contractual duties and obligations, we will have limited ability to control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs.. 33. Although we rely on these third parties to conduct certain aspects of our Phase III clinical trials and other studies and clinical trials, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials and preclinical studies is conducted in accordance with its investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as current good clinical practices, or GCPs, for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate, and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. We also rely on our consultants to assist us in the execution, including data collection and analysis of our clinical trials.. In addition, the execution of clinical trials and preclinical studies, and the subsequent compilation and analysis of the data produced, will require coordination among these various third parties. In order for these functions to be carried out effectively and efficiently, it will be imperative that these parties communicate and coordinate with one another, which may prove difficult to achieve. Moreover, these third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. Our agreement with these third parties may inevitably enable them to terminate such agreements upon reasonable prior written notice under certain circumstances.. If the third parties or consultants that assist us in conducting our clinical trials do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, experience work stoppages, do not meet expected deadlines, terminate their agreements with us or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or GCPs, or for any other reason, we may need to conduct additional clinical trials or enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties, which could be difficult, costly or impossible, and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated. If any of the foregoing were to occur, we may not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, regulatory approval for the product candidates being tested in such trials, and will not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize these product candidates.. We have no experience manufacturing our product candidates at full commercial scale. If our product candidates are approved, we intend to outsource our manufacturing to third parties, and will face certain risks associated with such outsourcing.. We have a small-scale integrated research, development and testing facility located at our corporate headquarters in Rehovot, Israel. However, we have not equipped our facility with manufacturing capabilities other than small scale manufacture, and do not currently plan to do so. We do not have experience in manufacturing our product candidates at commercial scale, and if our product candidates are approved, we will outsource all or a significant portion of the manufacturing of our products to third parties, including our drug substances and finished dose forms. Reliance on third parties to manufacture our products entails various risks, including the possibility of increased costs associated with the large- scale production of our products. These risks are similar to those involved in our current use of subcontractors and suppliers for certain compounds and components necessary to produce FMX101, FMX103 and any other of our other product candidates, as explained above.. If we are unsuccessful in outsourcing our manufacturing to third parties who are compliant with regulatory requirements, we may encounter delays or additional costs in achieving our commercialization objectives, which could materially damage our business and financial position.. We currently have limited marketing capabilities and no sales organization. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities on our own or through third parties, we will be unable to successfully commercialize FMX101, FMX103 or any other of our other product candidates, if approved, or generate product revenues.. We currently have limited marketing capabilities and no sales organization. To commercialize FMX101, FMX103 or any other of our other product candidates, if approved, in the U.S. and other jurisdictions we may seek to enter, we must build our marketing, sales, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services, and we may not be successful in doing so. If FMX101 or FMX103 receive regulatory approval, we expect to market them in the U.S. through a specialized internal sales force or a combination of our internal sales force and distributors, which will be expensive and time-consuming.. There are significant risks involved in building and managing a sales organization, including our ability to hire, retain and incentivize qualified individuals, generate sufficient sales leads, provide adequate training to sales and marketing personnel and effectively manage a geographically dispersed sales and marketing team. Any failure or delay in the development of our internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of our product candidates.. We may choose to collaborate with third parties that have direct sales forces and established distribution systems, either to augment our own sales force and distribution systems or in lieu of our own sales force and distribution systems. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates.. 34. If we are not successful in commercializing FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more third parties, our revenues will suffer and we will incur significant additional losses.. To establish our sales and marketing infrastructure and manufacturing capabilities, we will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this expansion.. As of February 1, 2018 we had 75 employees. We will need to continue to expand our managerial, operational, finance and other resources to manage our operations and clinical trials, continue our development activities and commercialize FMX101, FMX103 and any other product candidates, if approved. Our management, personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. Our need to effectively execute our expansion strategy requires that we:. ·  manage our clinical trials effectively;. ·  identify, recruit, retain, incentivize and integrate additional employees;. ·  manage our internal development efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to third parties; and. ·  continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures.. Due to our limited financial resources and our limited experience in managing a company with such anticipated expansion, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage expansion could delay the execution of our development and strategic objectives, or disrupt our operations.. We currently develop our clinical drug products exclusively in one research and development facility and may utilize this facility in the future to support commercial production if our product candidates are approved. If this or any future facility or our equipment were to be damaged or destroyed, or if we experience a significant disruption in our operations for any other reason, our ability to continue to operate our business would be materially harmed.. We currently research and develop our product candidates primarily in our laboratory located in Rehovot, Israel.. If this or any future facility were to be damaged, destroyed or otherwise unable to operate, whether due to war, acts of hostility, earthquakes, fire, floods, hurricanes, storms, tornadoes, other natural disasters, employee malfeasance, terrorist acts, power outages or otherwise, or if performance of our research and development facility is disrupted for any other reason, such an event could delay our clinical trials or, if our product candidates are approved and we choose to manufacture all or any part of them internally, jeopardize our ability to manufacture our products as promptly as our prospective customers will likely expect, or possibly at all. If we experience delays in achieving our development objectives, or if we are unable to manufacture an approved product within a timeframe that meets our prospective customers' expectations, our business, prospects, financial results and reputation could be materially harmed.. Currently, we maintain insurance coverage totaling $1.33 million against damage to our property and equipment and $5.8 million in workers compensation coverage, subject to deductibles and other limitations. If we have underestimated our insurance needs with respect to an interruption, or if an interruption is not subject to coverage under our insurance policies, we may not be able to cover our losses.. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities that may not be fully covered by our insurance policies and we may be required to limit commercialization of any of our other products we develop.. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of our product candidates and will face an even greater risk if we commercialize any products. For example, we may be sued if any product we develop allegedly causes injury or is found to be otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability and a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Even a successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. ·  decreased demand for FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates or products we develop;. ·  injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention;. ·  withdrawal of clinical trial participants or cancellation of clinical trials;. ·  costs to defend the related litigation, which may be only partially recoverable even in the event of successful defense;. ·  a diversion of management's time and our resources;. ·  substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients;. ·  regulatory investigations, product recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions;. ·  loss of revenues; and. ·  the inability to commercialize any products we develop.. 35. Our inability to obtain and maintain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost and scope of coverage to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of FMX101, FMX103 or any other product we may develop. We currently carry general third party liability insurance up to an amount of $10 million per annum. Although we maintain such insurance, any claim that may be brought against us could result in a court judgment or settlement in an amount that is not covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance or that is in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. Our insurance policies also have various exclusions and deductibles, and we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no coverage. We will have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not covered by our insurance, and we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pay such amounts. Moreover, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. If and when we obtain approval for marketing of one or more of FMX101, FMX103 or any other product we may develop, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include their sale; however, we may be unable to obtain this liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms.. If we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other products we develop.. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel. We believe that our future success is highly dependent upon the contributions of our senior management, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, as well as our senior technologists and scientists. The loss of services of any of these individuals could delay or prevent the successful development of our product pipeline, completion of our planned clinical trials or the commercialization of FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates.. Although we have not historically experienced unique difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified employees, we could experience such problems in the future. For example, competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field is intense due to the limited number of individuals who possess the skills and experience required by our industry. We will need to hire additional personnel as we expand our clinical development and commercial activities. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or that they have divulged proprietary or other confidential information, or that their former employers own their research output.. We have incurred, and will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company in the U.S., and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives.. As a public company in the U.S., we are subject to an extensive regulatory regime, requiring us to maintain various internal controls and to prepare and file periodic and current reports and statements, including reports on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404. Complying with these requirements is costly and time consuming. In the event that we are unable to demonstrate compliance with our obligations as a public company in the U.S. in a timely manner, or are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities, such as the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the NASDAQ Global Market, and investors may lose confidence in our operating results and the price of our ordinary shares could decline.. Our independent registered public accounting firm was not engaged to perform an audit of our internal control over financial reporting, and as long as we remain an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, we are exempt from the requirement to have an independent registered public accounting firm perform such audit. Accordingly, no such opinion was expressed. Once we cease to qualify as an \"emerging growth company,\" our independent registered public accounting firm will need to attest to our management's annual assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, which will entail additional costs and expenses.. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials and we and our third party manufacturers and suppliers must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business.. Our research and development activities and our third party subcontractors' and suppliers' activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials owned by us, including minocycline and doxycycline, key components of our product candidates, and other hazardous compounds. We and our manufacturers and suppliers are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. We are licensed by the Israeli Ministry of Health to manufacture small batches of product in topical dose form for our Phase I, II and III clinical trials. In some cases, these hazardous materials are stored at our and our subcontractors' facilities pending their use and disposal.. 36. Despite our efforts, we cannot eliminate the risk of contamination. This could cause an interruption of our commercialization efforts and business operations, environmental damage resulting in costly clean-up and liabilities under applicable laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by us and our subcontractors and suppliers for handling and disposing of these materials generally comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that this is the case or eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In such an event, we may be held liable for any resulting damages and such liability could exceed our resources and state or federal or other applicable authorities may curtail our use of certain materials and interrupt our business operations.. Furthermore, environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent. We cannot predict the impact of such changes and cannot be certain of our future compliance.. We may in the future be subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and fraud laws, and any violations by us of such laws could result in fines or other penalties.. While we do not expect that FMX101, FMX103 or any other of our other product candidates, if approved, will subject us to the various U.S. federal and state laws intended to prevent health care fraud and abuse, we may in the future become subject to such laws. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, receipt, or payment of remuneration in exchange for or to induce the referral of patients or the use of products or services that would be paid for in whole or part by Medicare or other federal health care programs. Remuneration has been broadly defined to include anything of value, including cash, improper discounts, and free or reduced price items and services. Many states have similar laws that apply to their state health care programs as well as private payors. Violations of the anti-kickback laws can result in exclusion from federal and state health care programs and substantial civil and criminal penalties.. The federal False Claims Act, or FCA, imposes liability on persons who, among other things, present or cause to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment by a federal health care program. The FCA has been used to prosecute persons submitting claims for payment that are inaccurate or fraudulent, that are for services not provided as claimed, or for services that are not medically necessary. The FCA includes a whistleblower provision that allows individuals to bring actions on behalf of the federal government and share a portion of the recovery of successful claims. If our marketing or other arrangements were determined to violate anti-kickback or related laws, including the FCA, then our revenues could be adversely affected, which would likely harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. State and federal authorities have aggressively targeted medical technology companies for alleged violations of these anti-fraud statutes, based on improper research or consulting contracts with doctors, certain marketing arrangements that rely on volume-based pricing, off-label marketing schemes, and other improper promotional practices. Companies targeted in such prosecutions have paid substantial fines in the hundreds of millions of dollars or more, have been forced to implement extensive corrective action plans, and have often become subject to consent decrees severely restricting the manner in which they conduct their business. If we become the target of such an investigation or prosecution based on our contractual relationships with providers or institutions, or our marketing and promotional practices, we could face similar sanctions, which would materially harm our business.. Also, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our internal control policies and procedures may not protect us from reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees, future distributors, licensees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could result in fines, penalties or prosecution and have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and reputation.. Unfavorable global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Although we believe the market for acne and rosacea therapies is less vulnerable to unfavorable economic conditions due to the significant discomfort and distress that these conditions inflict, our results of operations could be adversely affected by general conditions in the global economy and in the global financial markets. We currently have very limited visibility regarding the prospects of FMX101, FMX103 or our other product candidates becoming eligible for reimbursement by any government or third party payor and the possible scope of such reimbursement, and we must assume that demand for these product candidates may be tied to discretionary spending levels of our targeted patient population.. A severe or prolonged economic downturn could result in a variety of risks to our business, including weakened demand for FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates, if approved, and our ability to raise additional capital when needed on acceptable terms, if at all. A weak or declining economy could also strain our suppliers, possibly resulting in supply disruption, or cause our customers to delay making payments for our services.. Any of the foregoing could harm our business and we cannot anticipate all of the ways in which the current economic climate and financial market conditions could adversely impact our business.. 37. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Israeli shekel may negatively affect our earnings.. The dollar is our functional and reporting currency. However, a significant portion of our operating expenses are incurred in Israeli shekels. As a result, we are exposed to the risks that the shekel may appreciate relative to the dollar, or, if the shekel instead devalues relative to the dollar, that the inflation rate in Israel may exceed such rate of devaluation of the shekel, or that the timing of such devaluation may lag behind inflation in Israel. In any such event, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel would increase and our dollar-denominated results of operations would be adversely affected. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation or deflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation or appreciation of the shekel against the dollar. For example, the rate of appreciation of the shekel against the dollar was 11.6% and 1.5% in 2017 and 2016, respectively, which was offset by inflation in Israel at a rate of 0.4% in 2017 and compounded by deflation at a rate of -0.2% in 2016. If the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Our operations also could be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively hedge against currency fluctuations in the future.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If our efforts to obtain, protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights related to FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively and we otherwise may be harmed.. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection and other intellectual property rights and to utilize trade secret protection for our intellectual property and proprietary technologies, our products and their uses, as well as our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. We rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements, assignment of invention agreements and other contractual arrangements to protect the intellectual property related to FMX101, FMX103 and our other development programs. Limitations on the scope of our intellectual property rights may limit our ability to prevent third parties from designing around such rights and competing against us. For example, our patents do not claim a new compound. Rather, the active pharmaceutical ingredients of our products are existing compounds and our granted patents and pending patent applications are directed to, among other things, novel formulations of these existing compounds that are dispensed as a foam. Accordingly, other parties may compete with us, for example, by independently developing or obtaining competing topical formulations that design around our patent claims, but which may contain the same active ingredients, or by seeking to invalidate our patents. Moreover any disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential proprietary information, unless we have sufficient patent and/or trade secret protection and we are able to enforce such rights successfully, could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, eroding our competitive position in our market.. We currently have several granted patents related to FMX101 and FMX103 in the U.S., which are expected to remain in effect until 2030. These patents relate to a composition of matter comprising a claim to a formulation of a tetracycline antibiotic which can include minocycline or doxycycline, and therefore may be less protective than patents that claim a new drug.  We also have patents granted claiming compositions of matter relating to FMX101 and FMX103 in Australia, Canada, and Israel, and we have patent applications claiming compositions of matter relating to FMX101 and FMX103 pending in Canada, the European Union, India and Mexico.. As of December 31, 2017 we had 165 granted patents and over 40 patent applications pending worldwide covering our various foam-based platforms and other technology. However, the patent applications that we own or license may fail to result in granted patents in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions, or if granted the patent claims may fail to prevent a potential infringer from marketing its product or be deemed invalid and unenforceable by a court. Competitors in the field of topically-administered therapies comprising an active ingredient in foam presentation have created a substantial amount of scientific publications, patents and patent applications and other materials relating to their technologies. Our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents depends on various factors, including interpretation of our technology and the prior art and whether the differences between them allow our technology to be patentable. Patent applications and patents granted from them are complex, lengthy and highly technical documents that are often prepared under very limited time constraints and may not be free from errors that make their interpretation uncertain. The existence of errors in a patent may have a materially adverse effect on the patent, its scope and its enforceability. Our pending patent applications may not issue, and the scope of the claims of patent applications that do issue may be too narrow or inadequate to protect our competitive advantage. Also, our granted patents may be subject to challenges or construed in a way that may not provide adequate protection.. Even if these patents do successfully issue, third parties may challenge the validity, enforceability or scope of such granted patents or any other granted patents we own or license, which may result in such patents being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable. For example, patents granted by the European Patent Office may be opposed by any person within 9 months from the publication of their grant. Also, patents granted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, may be subject to review, reexamination and other challenges. Changes to the patent laws of the U.S. in 2012 provide additional procedures for third parties to challenge the validity of patents issuing from patent applications including post-grant review, which generally applies to patents first filed after March 15, 2013. A post-grant review petition must be filed on or prior to the date which is 9 months after the patent is granted. The procedures also expand and reform the proceedings for challenging issued patents on grounds of prior art and publications, also known as inter partes review or IPR. For patents filed after March 15, 2013, a petition for IPR may be filed the later of 9 months after grant of the patent or after a post-grant review proceeding on the patent has terminated. For patents filed prior to March 15, 2013, the rules regarding IPR filing remain unchanged and an IPR petition may be filed any time following issuance of the patent.. 38. Furthermore, efforts to enforce our patents could give rise to challenges to their validity or unenforceability in court proceedings. If the patents and patent applications we hold or pursue with respect to FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates are challenged, it could put one or more patents at risk of being invalidated, or interpreted narrowly and threaten our competitive advantage for FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates.  Furthermore, even if they are not challenged, our patents and patent applications may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around our claims. To meet such challenges, which are part of the risks and uncertainties of developing and marketing product candidates, we may need to evaluate third party intellectual property rights and, if appropriate, to seek licenses for such third party intellectual property or to challenge such third party intellectual property, which may be costly and may or may not be successful, which could also have a material adverse effect on the commercial potential for FMX101, FMX103 and any of our other product candidates.. Further, if we encounter delays in our clinical trials, the period of time during which we could market FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates under patent protection could be reduced.. Since patent applications in the U.S. and most other countries are confidential for a period of time after filing, we cannot be certain that we were the first to (i) file any patent application related to FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates or (ii) conceive and invent any of the inventions claimed in our patents or patent applications.. Furthermore, for applications filed before March 16, 2013, or patents issuing from such applications, an interference proceeding can be invoked by a third party, or instituted by the USPTO, to determine who was the first to invent any of the subject matter covered by the patent claims of our applications and patents. As of March 16, 2013, the U.S. transitioned to a \"first-to-file\" system for deciding which party should be granted a patent when two or more patent applications are filed by different parties claiming the same invention. A third party that files a patent application in the USPTO under the new first-to-file system before we did could therefore be awarded a patent covering an invention of ours even if we had made the invention before it was made by the third party.. The change to \"first-to-file\" from \"first-to-invent\" is one of the changes to the patent laws of the U.S. resulting from the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act signed into law on September 16, 2011. Among some of the other changes to the patent laws are changes that limit where a patentee may file a patent infringement suit and providing opportunities for third parties to challenge any issued patent in the USPTO. Because of a lower evidentiary standard in certain USPTO proceedings compared to the evidentiary standard in U.S. federal court necessary to invalidate a patent claim, a third party could potentially provide evidence in a USPTO proceeding sufficient for the USPTO to hold a claim invalid even though the same evidence may be insufficient to invalidate the claim if first presented in a district court action. Accordingly, a third party may attempt to use the USPTO procedures to invalidate our patent claims that would not have been invalidated if first challenged by the third party as a defendant in a district court action. USPTO statistics indicate that a high rate of challenged claims are being invalidated in these USPTO procedures.. Even where patent, trade secret and other intellectual property laws provide protection, costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and the outcome of such litigation would be uncertain. Moreover, any actions we may bring to enforce our intellectual property against our competitors could provoke them to bring counterclaims against us, and our competitors have intellectual property portfolios of their own, some of which are substantial. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in the challenged patent or one or more of its claims being interpreted narrowly or invalidated, or one or more of our patent applications may be not be granted.. We also rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our know-how, data and information prior to filing patent applications and during the period before they are published. We further rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that may not be patentable, processes for which patents may be difficult to obtain or enforce and other elements of our product development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents.. In an effort to protect our trade secrets and other confidential information, we incorporate confidentiality provisions in all our employees' agreements and require our consultants, contractors and licensees to which we disclose such information to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements require that confidential information, as defined in the agreement and disclosed to the individual by us during the course of the individual's relationship with us, be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties for an agreed term. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information, and these agreements may be breached. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. A breach of confidentiality could significantly affect our competitive position and we could lose our trade secrets or they could become otherwise known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Also, to the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use any intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in any related or resulting know-how and inventions. Additionally, others may independently develop the same or substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and other confidential information. Any of the foregoing could deteriorate our competitive advantages, undermine the trade secret and contractual protections afforded to our confidential information and have material adverse effects on our business.. 39. Changes in U.S. or foreign patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products.. As is the case with other companies in the markets in which we participate, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. The strength of patents in the pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions patent policy and case law also continues to evolve and change and the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patent rights are highly uncertain. This uncertainty includes changes to the patent laws through either legislative action to change statutory patent law or court action that may reinterpret or expand on existing law in ways affecting the scope or validity of granted patents, or both. Particularly in recent years in the U.S., there have been several major legislative developments and court decisions that have affected patent laws in significant ways and there may be more developments in the future that may weaken or undermine our ability to obtain patents or to enforce our existing and future patents.. We have agreed to share ownership in certain patents that may result from our development and license agreements with certain major pharmaceutical companies, which may detract from our rights to such patents.. We have agreed with several of the pharmaceutical companies with whom we are developing certain topical products, based on our foam technology and the licensees' active ingredients, to jointly own and have an undivided interest in patents that arise from the relevant projects, where the licensee made its own material contributions to the invention. In certain agreements, we have further agreed that inventions achieved exclusively or primarily by the licensees in the course of the development without significant contribution by us will be owned solely by them, and they will be allowed to file patent applications covering such inventions without our participation.. We have granted certain licensees the right to provide input during the prosecution of licensed patent applications. We have further granted certain licensees the primary right to enforce several of our existing patents, which we have licensed to these licensees to allow them to commercialize our jointly-developed product, in the event that any infringement of the licensed patents adversely affects the licensees' ability to utilize the licenses for the purpose they were granted. Such rights may detract from our rights and title to such patents. In addition, any negative proceedings against our technology could impact any or all of our licensees, and we may be contractually responsible for the payment of certain claims and losses as a result of such impact.. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe or otherwise violate intellectual property rights of third parties, our business could be harmed.. Our research, development and commercialization activities may infringe or otherwise violate or be claimed to infringe or otherwise violate patents owned or controlled by other parties. Competitors in the field of topical and oral drugs for the treatment of acne, impetigo, rosacea, chemotherapy-induced rash and other indications have developed large portfolios of patents and patent applications relating to our business. In particular, there are patents held by third parties that relate to the treatment with minocycline-based and doxycycline-based products for indications we are pursuing with our product candidates, namely FMX101, FMX103 and any other of our other product candidates. There may be granted patents that could be asserted against us in relation to such product candidates. There may also be granted patents held by third parties that may be infringed or otherwise violated by our other product candidates and activities, and we do not know whether or to what extent we are infringing or otherwise violating third party patents. There may also be third party patent applications that if approved and granted as patents may be asserted against us in relation to FMX101, FMX103 or any of our other product candidates or activities. These third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages and legal fees. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be temporarily or permanently enjoined or otherwise forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product candidate that is the subject of the suit.. As a result of patent infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose or be required to seek licenses from third parties. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the license would likely obligate us to pay license fees or royalties or both, and the rights granted to us might be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property, or such rights might be restrictive and limit our present and future activities. Ultimately, we or a licensee could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms.. There has been and there currently is substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical industry. In addition to possible infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference, derivation, review, re-examination or other post-grant proceedings declared or granted by the USPTO and similar proceedings in foreign countries, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our current or any future products. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings and their outcome could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace and impose a substantial financial burden on us. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 40. Furthermore, several of our employees were previously employed at universities or other pharmaceutical companies, including potential competitors. While we take steps to prevent our employees from using the proprietary information or know-how of others that is not in the public domain or that has not already been independently developed by us earlier, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, trade secrets or other proprietary information of any such employee's former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims and, even if we are successful in defending ourselves, could result in substantial costs to us or be distracting to our management. If we do not succeed with respect to any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages and possible ongoing royalties, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel.. If we are unable to protect our trademarks from infringement, our business prospects may be harmed.. We own trademarks that identify \"Foamix\", and have registered these trademarks in the U.S. and Israel. Although we take steps to monitor the possible infringement or misuse of our trademarks, it is possible that third parties may infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights. Any unauthorized use of our trademarks could harm our reputation or commercial interests. In addition, our enforcement against third-party infringers or violators may be unduly expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome may be an inadequate remedy.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive and time-consuming.. Competitors may infringe our intellectual property, including our patents or the patents of our licensors. As a result, we may be required to file infringement claims to stop third party infringement or unauthorized use. This can be expensive and burdensome, particularly for a company of our size, and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patent claims do not cover its technology or that the factors necessary to grant an injunction against an infringer are not satisfied.. We have received notice letters of ANDAs submitted for drug products that are generic versions of Finacea Foam and we are involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time consuming. Litigation proceedings may also fail, and even if successful, they may result in substantial costs and distraction of our management and other employees.. For example, we and Bayer have received Paragraph IV Certification Notice Letters from each of Teva and Perrigo, dated November 20, 2017 and January 4, 2018, respectively, in connection with Bayer's Finacea Foam.  A Paragraph IV Certification Notice Letter notifies the FDA that one or more patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book is allegedly invalid, unenforceable or will not be infringed by an ANDA product. In the case at hand, both letters were directed against several of our U.S. patents and stated that each of Teva and Perrigo had submitted to the FDA an ANDA for an azelaic acid foam composition which is a generic version of Finacea Foam. We and Bayer responded by jointly filing complaints against each of Teva and Perrigo with the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, filed January 4, 2018 and February 15, 2018, respectively, asserting, among other things, that each of Teva and Perrigo had infringed our patents, as listed in their Paragraph IV Notice Letters, by seeking FDA approval to manufacture and sell a generic version of Bayer's Finacea Foam prior to expiration of these patents. Since the complaints were filed within the 45-day period required under the Hatch Waxman Act, we were granted a 30-month stay which precludes a generic from receiving final FDA approval of a generic version of Finacea Foam prior to May 2020.. Pursuant to our licensing agreement with Bayer, this litigation is in the sole control of Bayer, and we are currently unable to predict its outcome.  Potentially, substitution of Finacea Foam in favor of generic versions is likely to have a negative impact on future commercialization of Finacea Foam and to result in a loss of license revenue. Furthermore, in any infringement proceeding, including the foregoing, a court may decide that a patent of ours, or one or more claims of such patent, is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the supposedly infringing technology on the grounds that our patents, or one or more claims of such patents, do not cover such technology.  An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could also put one or more of our pending patent applications at risk of not issuing. There can be no assurance that our product candidates will not be subject to the same risks.. 41. An adverse determination of any litigation or other proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing.. Interference, derivation review, or other proceedings brought at the USPTO may be necessary to determine the priority or patentability of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our licensors or licensees. Litigation or USPTO proceedings brought by us may fail or may be invoked against us by third parties. Even if we are successful, domestic or foreign litigation or USPTO or foreign patent office proceedings may result in substantial costs and distraction to our management. We may not be able, alone or with our licensors or licensees, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the U.S.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation or other proceedings, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation or proceedings. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation or proceedings, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments or public access to related documents. If investors perceive these results to be negative, the market price for our ordinary shares could be significantly harmed.. We may not obtain intellectual property rights or otherwise be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on product candidates in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. We primarily file patent applications in the U.S., and may file in some other selected jurisdictions on a case-by-case basis. As a result, our intellectual property rights in countries outside the U.S. are generally less extensive than those in the U.S. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries and jurisdictions, particularly of certain developing countries and jurisdictions, do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the U.S., and these countries and jurisdictions may limit the scope of what can be claimed, and in some cases may even force us to grant a compulsory license to competitors or other third parties. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions outside the U.S., or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in and into the U.S. or other jurisdictions. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not sought or obtained patent protection to develop their own products and further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but protection and enforcement is not as strong as that in the U.S. These products may compete with our products and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing. Moreover, competitors or others may raise legal challenges to our intellectual property rights or may infringe upon our intellectual property rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent or detect.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, especially those relating to pharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Further, third parties may prevail in their claims against us, which could potentially result in the award of injunctions or substantial damages against us. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license.. In addition, our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights may be adversely affected by unforeseen changes in domestic and foreign intellectual property laws and practice.. We have received notices of opposition to our European patent no. 1556009. Two oppositions were filed against the grant of our European patent EP1556009 entitled \"Cosmetic and Pharmaceutical Foam\", which relates to an alcohol-free foamable pharmaceutical or cosmetic carrier and its use.  The oppositions were filed by Guderma GmbH and Henkel AG & Co. KGaA. We defended the patent at oral proceedings on January 23, 2017 before the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office, or EPO, and the outcome was a favorable interlocutory decision to maintain the patent in amended form.  Both of the unsuccessful opponents filed an appeal against this decision, and in response we have restated our position in support of the patent.  We await the next communication from the EPO, which is likely to be a summons to oral proceedings at which the outcome of the appeal will be decided.  The opposition and appeal documents are available at the online EPO file for the patent.  Although the patent involved is believed by Foamix to be of no material interest to our lead product candidates, it may be of interest in relation to one or more of our licensed products.  We are unable to predict the outcome of the appeal, which might result in the patent being revoked, but note that it may potentially have a negative impact on the future commercialization of one or more licensed products.. 42. Under applicable employment laws, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete.. We generally enter into non-competition agreements as part of our employment agreements with our employees. These agreements generally prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors or clients for a limited period. We may be unable to enforce these agreements under the laws of the jurisdictions in which our employees work and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from benefitting from the expertise our former employees or consultants developed while working for us.. For example, Israeli labor courts place emphasis on freedom of employment and have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the protection of a company's trade secrets or other intellectual property.. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares. We do not know whether a market for our ordinary shares will be sustained and as a result it may be difficult for holders of our ordinary shares to sell their shares.. Although our ordinary shares are quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market, an active trading market for our shares may not be sustained. The lack of an active market may impair holders of our ordinary shares ability to sell their shares at the time they wish to sell them or at a price that they consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair market value of our shares, and may cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to be more volatile. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies by using our shares as consideration.. The market price of our ordinary shares may be subject to fluctuation and holders of our ordinary shares could lose all or part of their investment.. The stock market in general and the market price of our ordinary shares in particular has been, and will likely continue to be, subject to fluctuation, whether due to, or irrespective of, our operating results and financial condition. For example, the price of our shares plummeted by more than 40% in a single trading day on March 27, 2017, following the announcement of somewhat mixed top-line results from our two pivotal Phase III clinical trials for our lead product candidate FMX101 for treatment of moderate-to-severe acne. The market price of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Market may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to:. ·  actual or anticipated variations in our and our competitors' results of operations and financial condition;. ·  market acceptance of our products;. ·  the mix of products that we sell and related services that we provide;. ·  the success or failure of our licensees to develop, obtain approval for and commercialize our licensed products, for which we are entitled to contingent payments and royalties;. ·  changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if our ordinary shares are covered by analysts;. ·  development of technological innovations or new competitive products by others;. ·  announcements of technological innovations or new products by us;. ·  publication of the results of preclinical or clinical trials for FMX101, FMX103 or our other product candidates;. ·  failure by us to achieve a publicly announced milestone;. ·  delays between our expenditures to develop and market new or enhanced products and the generation of sales from those products;. ·  The filing of ANDAs by generic companies seeking approval to market generic versions of our products and of our licensee's products;. ·  developments concerning intellectual property rights, including our involvement in litigation brought by or against us, including patent infringement proceedings before national and state courts, and patent opposition and review proceedings before national patent offices;. ·  regulatory developments and the decisions of regulatory authorities as to the approval or rejection of new or modified products;. ·  changes in the amounts that we spend to develop, acquire or license new products, technologies or businesses;. ·  changes in our expenditures to promote our products;. ·  our sale or proposed sale, or the sale by our significant shareholders, of our ordinary shares or other securities in the future;. ·  changes in key personnel;. 43. ·  success or failure of our research and development projects or those of our competitors;. ·  the trading volume of our ordinary shares; and. ·  general economic and market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance.. These factors and any corresponding price fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and result in substantial losses being incurred by our investors. In the past, following periods of market volatility, public company shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could impose a substantial cost upon us and divert the resources and attention of our management from our business.. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our ordinary shares, the price of our ordinary shares could decline.. The trading market for our ordinary shares relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business, if at all. We do not have control over these analysts and we do not have commitments from them to write research reports about us. The price of our ordinary shares could decline if no research reports are published about us or our business, or if one or more equity research analysts downgrades our ordinary shares or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business.. Future sales of our ordinary shares could reduce the market price of our ordinary shares.. If our shareholders, particularly our directors and their affiliates or our executive officers, sell a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market, the market price of our ordinary shares could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our shareholders might sell our ordinary shares could also depress the market price of our ordinary shares and could impair our future ability to obtain capital, especially through an offering of equity securities. In addition, our sale of additional ordinary shares or similar securities in order to raise capital might have a similar negative impact on the share price of our ordinary shares. A decline in the price of our ordinary shares might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional ordinary shares or other equity securities, and may cause holders of our ordinary shares to lose part or all of their investment.. The significant share ownership position of affiliates of our co-founders, Dr. Dov Tamarkin and Meir Eini, may limit your ability to influence corporate matters.. Tamarkin Medical Innovations Ltd., a company beneficially owned by Dr. Dov Tamarkin, or Tamarkin, our co-founder, beneficially owns or controls, directly or indirectly, 7.0% of our outstanding ordinary shares, and Meir Eini Holdings Ltd., a company beneficially owned by Meir Eini, or Eini, our other co-founder, beneficially owns or controls, directly or indirectly, 7.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares, as of December 31, 2017. Accordingly, Tamarkin and Eini are able to significantly influence, though not independently determine, the outcome of matters required to be submitted to our shareholders for approval, including decisions relating to the election of our board of directors and the outcome of any proposed merger or consolidation of our company. Tamarkin's and Eini's interests may not be consistent with those of our other shareholders. In addition, Tamarkin's and Eini's significant interest in us may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire control of us, which may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares.. We have never paid cash dividends on our share capital, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our share capital, nor do we anticipate paying any cash dividends on our share capital in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our ordinary shares will be investors' sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. In addition, Israeli law limits our ability to declare and pay dividends, and may subject our dividends to Israeli withholding taxes.. As of January 1, 2018 we are required to report as a U.S. domestic issuer and the benefits of a \"foreign private issuer\" are no longer available to us, which will likely result in additional costs and expenses for us.. As of January 1, 2018 we have lost our status as a \"foreign private issuer\" and are required to adjust our disclosure and reporting to comply with the requirements for domestic U.S. companies, given that more than 50% of our outstanding voting securities were owned by residents of the U.S. and more than 50% of our executive officers were U.S. citizens or residents as of June 30, 2017.  As a result:. ·  we are required to report on forms that are applicable to U.S. companies, such as Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, rather than the forms formerly used us, such as Forms 20-F and 6-K;. ·  we are required to include substantially more information in proxy statements than previously provided;. ·  we can no longer make use of the shelf registration statement on Form F-3 that was declared effective on March 14, 2017, and will need to file a new registration statement on the relevant form applicable to domestic issuers should we wish to engage in capital raising activities;. 44. ·  if we engage in capital raising activities, there is a higher likelihood that investors may require us to file resale registration statements with the SEC as a condition to any such financing; and. ·  we may be required to modify certain of our policies to comply with accepted governance practices associated with U.S. domestic issuers.. We expect that complying with these additional requirements would increase our legal and audit fees which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of being considered a \"domestic issuer\" for reporting and disclosure requirements:. ·  we are no longer exempt from certain of the provisions of U.S. securities laws such as (i) Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material information, (ii) exemptions for filing beneficial ownership reports under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act for executive officers, directors and 10% shareholders (Forms 3, 4, and 5), and (iii) the Section 16(b) short swing profit rules;. ·  we are no longer permitted to disclose compensation information for our executive officers on an aggregate rather than an individual basis, although such exemption may still be available to us as long as we remain an \"emerging growth company\"; and. ·  we have lost the ability to rely upon exemptions from NASDAQ corporate governance requirements that are available to foreign private issuers.. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to follow, and had followed through December 31, 2017, certain home country corporate governance practices instead of those otherwise required under the NASDAQ Stock Market for domestic U.S. issuers. For instance, we followed home country practice in Israel with regard to (a) the quorum requirement for shareholder meetings, (b) the lack of need for independent director oversight of director nominations and for a nominating and governance committee; (c) the lack of need for separate executive sessions of independent directors and non-management directors; and (d) the lack of need to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events such as (i) the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans and (ii) certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies.\" Most of such requirements relate to disclosures that we would otherwise be required to make, having ceased to be a foreign private issuer. For example, as an emerging growth company, and despite no longer being a foreign private issuer, we will not be required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for up to five fiscal years after the date of our initial public offering.. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of: (i) the last day of our fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of at least $1.0 billion; (ii) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the closing of our initial public offering; (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; or (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a \"large accelerated filer\" under the Exchange Act.. When we are no longer deemed to be an emerging growth company, we will not be entitled to the exemptions provided in the JOBS Act discussed above. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result of our reliance on exemptions under the JOBS Act. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and our share price may be more volatile.. Our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company.. Generally, if, for any taxable year, 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our assets (which may be determined in part by the market value of our ordinary shares, which is subject to change) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Based on certain estimates of our gross income and gross assets, our use of proceeds of our initial public offering, and the nature of our business, we believe that we were not classified as a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2017, and do not anticipate being classified as a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2018. Because we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and cash equivalents and other passive assets used in our business, and because the value of our gross assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to our market capitalization, a decline in the value of our ordinary shares may result in our becoming a PFIC. Accordingly, we may be considered a PFIC for any taxable year.. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than as capital gain, the loss of the preferential rate applicable to dividends received on our ordinary shares by individuals who are U.S. Holders (as defined in \"Item 10.E. Taxation - U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences\" in our annual report on Form 20-F for the year 2016, filed with the SEC on February 21, 2017), and having interest charges apply to distributions by us and the proceeds of share sales. Certain elections exist that may alleviate some of the adverse consequences of PFIC status and would result in an alternative treatment (such as mark-to-market treatment) of our ordinary shares; however, we do not intend to provide the information necessary for U.S. holders to make qualified electing fund elections if we are classified as a PFIC. See also \"Item 10.E. Taxation - U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences - Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations\" in our annual report on Form 20-F for the year 2016, filed with the SEC on February 21, 2017.. 45. Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel. Our headquarters, research and development and other significant operations are located in Israel and, therefore, our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel.. Our headquarters and research and development facilities are located in Rehovot, Israel. In addition, a significant number of our key employees, officers and directors are residents of Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel, its neighboring countries and other organizations. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade or transport between Israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations and results of operations. Further, our operations could be disrupted by the obligations of personnel to perform military reserve service.. Provisions of Israeli law and our amended and restated articles of association may delay, prevent or otherwise impede a merger with, or an acquisition of, us, even when the terms of such a transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders.. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to such types of transactions. For example, a tender offer for all of a company's issued and outstanding shares can only be completed if the acquirer receives positive responses from the holders of at least 95% of the issued share capital. Completion of the tender offer also requires approval of a majority of the offerees that do not have a personal interest in the tender offer unless, following consummation of the tender offer, the acquirer would hold at least 98% of the company's outstanding shares. Furthermore, the shareholders, including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer, may, at any time within six months following the completion of the tender offer, petition an Israeli court to alter the consideration for the acquisition, unless the acquirer stipulated in its tender offer that a shareholder that accepts the offer may not seek such appraisal rights.. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of a number of conditions, including, in some cases, a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are subject to certain restrictions. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when such time expires, the tax becomes payable even if no disposition of the shares has occurred.. It may be difficult to enforce a judgment of a U.S. court against us, our officers and directors in Israel or the U.S., to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or to serve process on our officers and directors.. We are incorporated in Israel. A significant number of our executive officers and directors listed in this annual report reside outside of the U.S., and most of our assets and most of the assets of these persons are located outside of the U.S. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us, or any of these persons, including a judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the U.S. and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to effect service of process on these persons in the U.S. or to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on an alleged violation of U.S. securities laws reasoning that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proven as a fact by expert witnesses, which can be a time consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law.. There is little binding case law in Israel that addresses the matters described above. As a result of the difficulty associated with enforcing a judgment against us in Israel, holders of our ordinary shares may not be able to collect any damages awarded by either a U.S. or foreign court.. 46. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law, which differs in some material respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of U.S. companies.. The rights and responsibilities of the holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our amended articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some material respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in U.S.-based companies. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising its rights and performing its obligations towards the company and other shareholders, and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at a general meeting of shareholders on matters such as amendments to a company's articles of association, increases in a company's authorized share capital, mergers and acquisitions and related party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who is aware that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a vote at a meeting of the shareholders or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company with regard to such vote or appointment. There is limited case law available to assist us in understanding the nature of this duty or the implications of these provisions. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on holders of our ordinary shares that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. companies."
