[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. <U+FEFF>. The statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (\"Annual Report\") that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans found in \"Item 1. Business\" and \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" constitute \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.. 1. Please also see \"Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\" Our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report, including those discussed below. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently consider to be insignificant may also affect our business operations and financial performance.. <U+FEFF>. Our inability to implement our long-range strategic plan may adversely affect our future results.. <U+FEFF>. Our ability to successfully implement and execute our long-range plan is dependent on many factors. Our strategies may require significant capital investment and management attention. Additionally, any new initiative is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance of our products and renovated store designs, competition, product differentiation, the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, and our ability to successfully implement technological initiatives. If we cannot successfully execute our strategic growth initiatives or if the long-range plan does not adequately address the challenges or opportunities we face, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, failure to meet shareholder expectations, particularly with respect to sales, operating margins, and earnings per share, would likely result in volatility in the market value of our stock.. <U+FEFF>. The retail athletic footwear and apparel business is highly competitive.. <U+FEFF>. Our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores, department stores, traditional shoe stores, mass merchandisers, and Internet retailers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. The principal competitive factors in our markets are selection of merchandise, customer experience, reputation, store location, advertising, and price. We cannot assure that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Our expansion into markets served by our competitors, and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Although we sell an increasing proportion of our merchandise via the Internet, a significantly faster shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic apparel, and sporting goods via the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our business results. In addition, all of our significant suppliers operate retail stores and distribute products directly through the Internet and others may follow. Should this continue to occur, and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our suppliers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion trends, customer preferences, product innovations, and other fashion-related factors.. <U+FEFF>. The athletic footwear and apparel industry, especially at the premium end of the price spectrum, is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. In addition, retailers in the athletic industry rely on their suppliers to maintain innovation in the products they develop. We cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences when it is offered for sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise from suppliers. A substantial portion of our highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12 - 25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and athletic apparel as a fashion statement and are frequent purchasers. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or athletic apparel less attractive to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. If we do not successfully manage our inventory levels, our operating results will be adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. We must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. However, we also must guard against accumulating excess inventory. For example, we order most of our athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. If we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers' purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. 2. A change in the relationship with any of our key suppliers or the unavailability of key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health.. <U+FEFF>. Our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to obtain exclusive product and the ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices from a limited number of suppliers. In addition, we have negotiated volume discounts, cooperative advertising, and markdown allowances with our suppliers, as well as the ability to cancel orders and return excess or unneeded merchandise. We cannot be certain that such terms with our suppliers will continue in the future.. <U+FEFF>. We purchased approximately 93 percent of our merchandise in 2017 from our top five suppliers and we expect to continue to obtain a significant percentage of our athletic product from these suppliers in future periods. Approximately 67 percent of all merchandise purchased in 2017 was purchased from one supplier  -  Nike, Inc. (\"Nike\"). Each of our operating divisions is highly dependent on Nike: they individually purchased 44 to 73 percent of their merchandise from Nike during the year. Merchandise that is high profile and in high demand is allocated by our suppliers based upon their internal criteria. Although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot be certain that our suppliers will continue to allocate sufficient amounts of such merchandise to us in the future. Our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers as a result of business decisions by our suppliers or any disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Because of the high proportion of purchases from Nike, any adverse development in Nike's reputation, financial condition or results of operations or the inability of Nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. We are affected by mall traffic and our ability to secure suitable store locations.. <U+FEFF>. Many of our stores, especially in North America, are located primarily in enclosed regional and neighborhood malls. Our sales are affected, in part, by the volume of mall traffic. Mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other factors, economic downturns, the closing or continued decline of anchor department stores and/or specialty stores, and a decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers. Further, any terrorist act, natural disaster, public health or safety concern that decreases the level of mall traffic, or that affects our ability to open and operate stores in such locations, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. <U+FEFF>. To take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and neighborhood malls, as well as high-traffic urban retail areas and high streets. We cannot be certain that desirable locations will continue to be available at favorable rates. Some traditional enclosed malls are experiencing significantly lower levels of customer traffic, driven by economic conditions as well as the closure of certain mall anchor tenants.. <U+FEFF>. Several large landlords dominate the ownership of prime malls and because of our dependence upon these landlords for a substantial number of our locations, any significant erosion of their financial condition or our relationships with these landlords could negatively affect our ability to obtain and retain store locations. Additionally, further landlord consolidation may negatively affect our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms.. <U+FEFF>. We may experience fluctuations in, and cyclicality of, our comparable-store sales results.. <U+FEFF>. Our comparable-store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect our comparable-store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, product innovation, promotional events, the highly competitive retail sales environment, economic conditions, timing of income tax refunds, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, supply chain disruptions, and weather conditions. Many of our products represent discretionary purchases. Accordingly, customer demand for these products could decline in an economic downturn or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. 3. Economic or political conditions in other countries, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and tax rates may adversely affect our operations.. <U+FEFF>. A significant portion of our sales and operating income for 2017 was attributable to our operations in Europe, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. As a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business outside of the United States such as local customer product preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in economic conditions in countries in which we operate, foreign currency fluctuations, real estate costs, and labor and employment practices in non-U.S. jurisdictions that may differ significantly from those that prevail in the United States. In addition, because our suppliers manufacture a substantial amount of our products in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions, labor, and other conditions in the countries from which our suppliers obtain their product.. <U+FEFF>. Fluctuations in the value of the euro and the British Pound may affect the value of our European earnings when translated into U.S. dollars. Similarly our earnings in Canada, Australia, and New Zealand may be affected by the value of currencies when translated into U.S. dollars. Except for our business in the United Kingdom (the \"U.K\"),  our international subsidiaries conduct most of their business in their local currency. Inventory purchases for our U.K. business are denominated in euros, which could result in foreign currency transaction gains or losses.. <U+FEFF>. Our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. Fluctuations in tax rates and duties and changes in tax legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. Significant developments stemming from the U.K.'s decision to withdraw from the European Union could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. <U+FEFF>. The U.K. has voted in favor of leaving the European Union (\"E.U.\"), and such withdrawal (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\") is scheduled to take effect over the next two years. This decision has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the U.K. and the E.U., and this uncertainty may last for several years. The pending withdrawal and its possible future consequences have caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in global financial markets, including in global currency and debt markets. This volatility could cause a slowdown in economic activity in the U.K., Europe or globally, which could adversely affect the Company's operating results and growth prospects.  In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate, and those laws and regulations may be cumbersome, difficult or costly in terms of compliance. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. Macroeconomic developments may adversely affect our business.. <U+FEFF>. Our performance is subject to global economic conditions and the related effects on consumer spending levels. Continued uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news, and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for our products.. <U+FEFF>. As a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions. Our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes, reduced access to credit, and lower home values. These and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. <U+FEFF>. Instability in the financial markets may adversely affect our business.. <U+FEFF>. Instability in the global financial markets could reduce availability of credit to our business. Although we currently have a revolving credit agreement in place until May 19, 2021, tightening of credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness, or obtain funding through the issuance of the Company's securities. Other than insignificant amounts used for standby letters of credit, we do not have any borrowings under our credit facility.. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. 4. We rely on a few key suppliers for a majority of our merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key supplier). The inability of these key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver merchandise to us. Our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Material changes in the market value of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. At February 3, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $849 million. The majority of our investments were short-term deposits in highly-rated banking institutions. As of February 3, 2018, $669 million of our cash and cash equivalents were held in foreign jurisdictions, almost half of which was held in U.S. dollars. We regularly monitor our counterparty credit risk and mitigate our exposure by making short-term investments only in highly-rated institutions and by limiting the amount we invest in any one institution. We continually monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties. At February 3, 2018, all of the investments were in investment grade institutions. Despite an investment grade rating, it is possible that the value or liquidity of our investments may decline due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and bank-specific credit issues.. <U+FEFF>. Our U.S. pension plan trust holds assets totaling $639 million at February 3, 2018. The fair values of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan's projected benefit obligation to determine the pension funding liability. We attempt to mitigate funding risk through asset diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk of our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. Despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. Such declines could affect the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements.. <U+FEFF>. If our long-lived assets, goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges.. <U+FEFF>. We review our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets when events indicate that the carrying value of such assets may be impaired. Goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if impairment indicators arise and, at a minimum, annually. As of February 3, 2018, we had $160 million of goodwill; this asset is not amortized but is subject to an impairment test, which consists of either a qualitative assessment on a reporting unit level, or a two-step impairment test, if necessary. The determination of impairment charges is significantly affected by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. Our estimates of future operating cash flows are identified from our long-range strategic plans, which are based upon our experience, knowledge, and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by factors such as our future operating results, future store profitability, and future economic conditions, all of which can be difficult to predict accurately. Any significant deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could affect the fair value of our long-lived assets, goodwill, and other intangible assets and could result in future impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Our financial results may be adversely affected by tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities.. <U+FEFF>. We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes is based on a jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory rates, and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including shifts in the mix of pretax results by tax jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or related interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and tax assessments and related interest and penalties resulting from income tax audits.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in tax laws and interpretations may affect our earnings negatively.. <U+FEFF>. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law. The Tax Act includes a number of changes in existing tax law affecting businesses including, among other things, a reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, disallowance of certain deductions that had previously been allowed, limitations on interest deductions, alteration of the expensing of capital expenditures, adoption of a territorial tax system, assessment of a repatriation tax or \"toll-charge\" on undistributed earnings and profits of U.S.-owned foreign corporations, and introduction of certain anti-base erosion provisions.. 5. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we recognized a provisional net tax expense of $99 million associated with the Tax Act; however, the ultimate effect on our financial condition and results of operations in 2018 and future years remains uncertain and may differ materially from our expectations due to the issuance of technical guidance regarding elements of the Tax Act and changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made with respect to the Tax Act. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities. As such, there may be material adverse effects resulting from the Tax Act that we have not yet identified.. <U+FEFF>. The effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, and public health issues may adversely affect our business.. <U+FEFF>. Natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, and tornadoes may affect store and distribution center operations. In addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and military action both in the United States and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from suppliers for sale to our customers. Public health issues, such as flu or other pandemics, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations and result in a significant part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. Additionally, public health issues may disrupt, or have an adverse effect on, our suppliers' operations, our operations, our customers, or customer demand. Our ability to mitigate the adverse effect of these events depends, in part, upon the effectiveness of our disaster preparedness and response planning as well as business continuity planning. However, we cannot be certain that our plans will be adequate or implemented properly in the event of an actual disaster. We may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any significant declines in public safety or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products.. <U+FEFF>. Manufacturer compliance with our social compliance program requirements.. <U+FEFF>. We require our independent manufacturers to comply with our policies and procedures, which cover many areas including labor, health and safety, and environmental standards. We monitor compliance with our policies and procedures using internal resources, as well as third-party monitoring firms. Although we monitor their compliance with these policies and procedures, we do not control the manufacturers or their practices. Any failure of our independent manufacturers to comply with our policies and procedures or local laws in the country of manufacture could disrupt the shipment of merchandise to us, force us to locate alternate manufacturing sources, reduce demand for our merchandise, or damage our reputation.. <U+FEFF>. Complications in our distribution centers and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise may affect our business.. <U+FEFF>. We operate multiple distribution centers worldwide to support our businesses. In addition to the distribution centers that we operate, we have third-party arrangements to support our operations in the United States, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. If complications arise with any facility or if any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, our other distribution centers may be unable to support the resulting additional distribution demands. We also may be affected by disruptions in the global transportation network such as port strikes, weather conditions, work stoppages or other labor unrest. These factors may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis. We depend upon third-party carriers for shipment of merchandise; any interruption in service by these carriers for any reason could cause disruptions in our business, a loss of sales and profits, and other material adverse effects.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to technology risks including failures, security breaches, and cybersecurity risks which could harm our business, damage our reputation, and increase our costs in an effort to protect against such risks.. <U+FEFF>. Information technology is a critically important part of our business operations. We depend on information systems to process transactions, make operational decisions, manage inventory, operate our websites, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-efficient operations. There is a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center or data leakage of confidential information, either internally or at our third-party providers. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, system implementation issues, viruses, malicious hackers, sabotage, or other causes.. 6. We invest in security technology to protect the data stored by us, including our data and business processes, against the risk of data security breaches and cyber-attacks. Our data security management program includes enforcement of standard data protection policies such as Payment Card Industry compliance. Additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification measures. We maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness.. <U+FEFF>. While we believe that our security technology and processes follow leading practices in the prevention of security breaches and the mitigation of cybersecurity risks, given the ever-increasing abilities of those intent on breaching cybersecurity measures and given the necessity of our reliance on the security procedures of third-party vendors, the total security effort at any point in time may not be completely effective. Any such security breaches and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business. Failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber-attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and negative consequences to us, our employees, and those with whom we do business. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information by us could also severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, increase operating costs associated with remediation, and harm our business. While we carry insurance that would mitigate the losses, such insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for potentially significant losses.. <U+FEFF>. Risks associated with digital operations.. <U+FEFF>. Our digital operations are subject to numerous risks, including risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and mobile sites and their related support systems, computer viruses, cybersecurity risks, telecommunications failures, denial of service attacks, and similar disruptions. Also, we will require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow our digital commerce business.  Risks related to digital commerce include those associated with credit card fraud, the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, governmental regulation, and legal uncertainties with respect to Internet regulatory compliance. If any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. <U+FEFF>. Privacy and data security concerns and regulation could result in additional costs and liabilities.. <U+FEFF>. The protection of customer, employee, and Company data is critical. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. In addition, customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. Any actual or perceived misappropriation or breach involving this data could attract negative media attention, cause harm to our reputation or result in liability (including but not limited to fines, penalties or lawsuits), any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows. Additionally, the E.U. adopted a comprehensive General Data Privacy Regulation (the \"GDPR\"), which will become fully effective in May 2018. The GDPR requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal and sensitive data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. Failure to comply with GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4 percent of worldwide revenue. The GDPR and other similar laws and regulations, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, may be costly to comply with, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may harm our business, including fines or demands or orders that we modify or cease existing business practices.. <U+FEFF>. The technology enablement of omni-channel in our business is complex and involves the development of a new digital platform and a new order management system in order to enhance the complete customer experience.. <U+FEFF>. We continue to invest in initiatives designed to deliver a high-quality, coordinated shopping experience online, in-stores, and on mobile devices, which requires substantial investment in technology, information systems, and employee training, as well as significant management time and resources. Our omni-channel retailing efforts include the integration and implementation of new technology, software, and processes to be able to fulfill orders from any point within our system of stores and distribution centers, which is extremely complex and may not meet customer expectations for timely and accurate deliveries. These efforts involve substantial risk, including risk of implementation delays, cost overruns, technology interruptions, supply and distribution delays, and other issues that can affect the successful implementation and operation of our omni-channel initiatives.. <U+FEFF>. 7. If our omni-channel initiatives are not successful, or we do not realize the return on our omni-channel investments that we anticipate, our financial performance and future growth could be materially adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. Our reliance on key management.. <U+FEFF>. Future performance will depend upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate our executive and senior management teams. Our executive and senior management teams have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our success. Our future performance depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of our current executive and senior management teams, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified management in the future. While we feel that we have adequate succession planning and executive development programs, competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot retain and attract qualified executives.. <U+FEFF>. Risks associated with attracting and retaining store and field associates.. <U+FEFF>. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract, develop, and retain a sufficient number of qualified store and field associates. The turnover rate in the retail industry is generally high. If we are unable to attract and retain quality associates, our ability to meet our growth goals or to sustain expected levels of profitability may be compromised. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, overtime regulations, and changing demographics.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in employment laws or regulation could harm our performance.. <U+FEFF>. Various foreign and domestic labor laws govern our relationship with our employees and affect our operating costs. These laws include minimum wage requirements, overtime and sick pay, paid time off, work scheduling, healthcare reform and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (\"ACA\"), unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, European works council requirements, and union organization. A number of factors could adversely affect our operating results, including additional government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime and sick pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, and changing regulations from the National Labor Relations Board or other agencies. At this time, there is uncertainty concerning whether the ACA will be repealed or what requirements will be included in a new law, if enacted.  Complying with any new legislation and/or reversing changes implemented under the ACA could be time-intensive and expensive, and may affect our business.. <U+FEFF>. Legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming/climate change concerns may negatively affect our business.. <U+FEFF>. There has been an increasing focus and significant debate on global climate change, including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as-yet unspecified array of environmental matters. Legislative, regulatory, or other efforts to combat climate change could result in future increases in taxes or in the cost of transportation and utilities, which could decrease our operating profits and could necessitate future additional investments in facilities and equipment. We are currently unable to predict the potential effects that any such future environmental initiatives may have on our business.. <U+FEFF>. We may be adversely affected by regulatory and litigation developments.. <U+FEFF>. We are exposed to the risk that federal or state legislation may negatively affect our operations. Changes in federal or state wage requirements, employee rights, health care, social welfare or entitlement programs, such as health insurance, paid leave programs, or other changes in workplace regulation could increase our cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect our operations. Additionally, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters, including class actions, which arise in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance.. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. 8. We operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws.. <U+FEFF>. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, which is broader in scope than the FCPA, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.. <U+FEFF>. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. Despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot be assured that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Our continued expansion outside the United States, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of FCPA violations in the future. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. Failure to fully comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, market confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our common stock.. <U+FEFF>. We continue to document, test, and monitor our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy all of the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; however, we cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting will prove to be completely adequate in the future. Failure to fully comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, market confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our common stock.. <U+FEFF>"
