[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Risks Related to our Concentrated Ownership. So long as D.R. Horton controls us, our other stockholders will have limited ability to influence matters requiring stockholder approval, and D.R. Horton's interest may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders.. D.R. Horton beneficially owns approximately 75% of our common stock. As a result, until such time as D.R. Horton and its controlled affiliates hold shares representing less than a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by our stockholders at a stockholder meeting, D.R. Horton generally has the ability to control the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders, except in certain circumstances set forth in the our certificate of incorporation or bylaws. In addition, under the terms of our certificate of incorporation and the Stockholder's Agreement with D.R. Horton, so long as D.R. Horton or its affiliates own 35% or more of our voting securities, we may not take certain actions without D.R. Horton's approval, including certain actions with respect to equity issuances, indebtedness, acquisitions and executive hiring, termination and compensation.. In addition, pursuant to the Stockholder's Agreement with D.R. Horton, we are subject to certain requirements and limitations regarding the composition of our Board. However, many of those requirements and limitations expire in January 2019. Thereafter, for so long as D.R. Horton and its controlled affiliates hold shares of our common stock representing at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by our stockholders at a stockholder meeting, D.R. Horton is able to nominate and elect all the members of our Board, subject to a requirement that we and D.R. Horton use reasonable best efforts to cause at least three directors to qualify as \"independent directors,\" as such term is defined in the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") listing rules, and applicable law. The directors elected by D.R. Horton have the authority to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional capital stock or options, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the implementation of stock repurchase programs and the declaration of dividends.. The interests of D.R. Horton may not coincide with the interests of our other stockholders. D.R. Horton's ability, subject to the limitations in the Stockholder's Agreement and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, to control matters submitted to our stockholders for approval limits the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters, which may cause us to take actions that our other stockholders do not view as beneficial to them. In such circumstances, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, the existence of a controlling stockholder may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or may discourage a third party from seeking to acquire us. A third party would be required to negotiate any such transaction with D.R. Horton, and the interests of D.R. Horton with respect to such transaction may be different from the interests of our other stockholders.. Subject to limitations in the Stockholder's Agreement and our certificate of incorporation that limit D.R. Horton's ability to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities, D.R. Horton is not restricted from competing with us or otherwise taking for itself or its other affiliates certain corporate opportunities that may be attractive to us.. Any inability to resolve favorably any disputes that may arise between us and D.R. Horton may result in a significant reduction of our revenues and earnings.. Disputes may arise between D.R. Horton and us in a number of areas, including:. • business combinations involving us;. • sales or dispositions by D.R. Horton of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us;. • performance under the Master Supply Agreement between D.R. Horton and us;. • arrangements with third parties that are exclusionary to D.R. Horton or us; and. • business opportunities that may be attractive to both D.R. Horton and us.. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party.. New agreements may be entered into between us and D.R. Horton, and agreements we enter into with D.R. Horton may be amended upon agreement between the parties. Because we are controlled by D.R. Horton, we may not have the leverage to negotiate these agreements, or amendments thereto if required, on terms as favorable to us as those that we would negotiate with an unaffiliated third party.. D.R. Horton's ability to control our Board may make it difficult for us to recruit independent directors.. So long as D.R. Horton and its controlled affiliates hold shares of our common stock representing at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by our stockholders at a stockholders' meeting, D.R. Horton is able to elect all of the members of our Board, subject to the requirement to nominate one individual from the pre-merger Board at our 2018 annual meeting of stockholders. Further, the interests of D.R. Horton and our other stockholders may diverge. Under these circumstances, persons who might otherwise accept an invitation to join our Board may decline.. 12. We qualify as a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, may elect to rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of companies that are not \"controlled companies.\". So long as D.R. Horton owns more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, we qualify as a \"controlled company\" under the NYSE corporate governance standards. As a controlled company, we may under the NYSE rules elect to be exempt from obligations to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements:. • that a majority of our Board consist of independent directors;. • that we have a nominating and governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities;. • that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. • that an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and governance committee and compensation committee be performed.. We have not elected to utilize the \"controlled company\" exemptions at this time. However, if we elect to use the \"controlled company\" exemptions, our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. We may not realize potential benefits of the strategic relationship with D.R. Horton, including the transactions contemplated by the Master Supply Agreement with D.R. Horton.. The Master Supply Agreement establishes a strategic relationship between us and D.R. Horton for the supply of developed lots. Under the Master Supply Agreement, we will, and D.R. Horton may, present lot development opportunities that it desires to develop to the other party, subject to certain exceptions. The parties may collaborate with respect to such opportunities and, if they elect to develop such opportunities, D.R. Horton has a right of first offer or right to purchase some or all of the lots developed by us, as set forth in the Master Supply Agreement, on market terms as determined by the parties. There are numerous uncertainties associated with our relationship with D.R. Horton, including the risk that the parties will be unable to negotiate mutually acceptable terms for lot development opportunities and the fact that D.R. Horton is not obligated to present its lot development opportunities to us. As a result, we may not realize potential growth or other benefits from the strategic relationship with D.R. Horton, which may affect our financial condition or results of operations.. D.R. Horton's control of us or the strategic relationship between D.R. Horton and us may negatively affect our business relationships with other builder customers.. So long as D.R. Horton controls us or the strategic relationship between D.R. Horton and us remains in place, our business relationships with other builder customers may be negatively affected, including as a result of the risk that such other builder customers may believe that we will favor D.R. Horton over our other customers. In addition, we have in the past relied on builder referrals as a source for land development opportunities, and there is a risk that builders may refer such opportunities to land developers other than us as a result of our close alignment with D.R. Horton.. Risks Related to our Operations. Reduced demand for new housing or commercial tracts in the markets where we operate could adversely impact our profitability.. The residential development industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, such as employment levels, availability of financing for home buyers, interest rates, consumer confidence and housing demand. Adverse changes in these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand for lots for new homes in these areas. Decline in housing demand could negatively affect our real estate development activities, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings.. Furthermore, the market value of undeveloped land and lots held by us, including commercial tracts, can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and real estate market conditions. If there are significant adverse changes in economic or real estate market conditions, we may have to hold land in inventory longer than planned. Inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses or lower returns and adversely affect our liquidity.. Our business is cyclical in nature.. Real estate development of residential lots is influenced by new home construction activity, which can be volatile. Cyclical downturns may materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are also impacted by general and local economic conditions, including employment levels, consumer confidence and spending, housing demand, availability of financing for homebuyers, tax policy for deductibility of home mortgage interest and property taxes, and interest rate and demographic trends.. 13. Adverse changes in these general and local economic conditions or deterioration in the broader economy would cause a negative impact on our business and financial results and increase the risk for asset impairments and write-offs. Changes in these economic conditions may affect some of our regions or markets more than others. If adverse conditions affect our larger markets, particularly Texas, they could have a proportionately greater impact on us than on some other real estate development companies.. The real estate development industry is highly competitive and a number of entities with which we compete are larger and have greater resources, and competitive conditions may adversely affect our results of operations.. The real estate development industry in which we operate is highly competitive.. Competitive conditions in the real estate development industry may result in difficulties acquiring suitable land at acceptable prices, lower sales volumes and prices, increased development or construction costs and delays in construction. We compete with numerous regional and local developers for the acquisition, entitlement, and development of land suitable for development. We also compete with national, regional and local home builders who develop real estate for their own use in homebuilding operations, many of which are larger and have greater resources than we do. Any improvement in the cost structure or service of our competitors will increase the competition we face.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected by any of these factors.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify.. We may have continuing liabilities relating to non-core assets that have been sold, which could adversely impact our results of operations.. In the course of selling our non-core assets we are typically required to make contractual representations and warranties and to provide contractual indemnities to the buyers. These contractual obligations typically survive the closing of the transactions for some period of time. If a buyer is successful in sustaining a claim against us we may incur additional expenses pertaining to an asset we no longer own, and we may also be obligated to defend and/or indemnify the buyer from certain third party claims. Such obligations could be material and they could adversely impact our results of operations.. The market price of and trading volume of our shares of common stock may be volatile.. The market price of our shares of common stock has fluctuated substantially and may continue to fluctuate in response to many factors which are beyond our control, including:. • fluctuations in our operating results, including results that vary from expectations of management, analysts and investors;. • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions, financings and other material events by us or our competitors;. • the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock held by existing security holders in the public market; and. • general conditions in the real estate industry.. The stock markets in general may experience extreme volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, make it difficult to predict the market price of our common stock in the future and cause the value of our common stock to decline.. Provisions of Delaware law, our charter documents and the indentures governing our 3.75% convertible senior notes may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. These and other impediments to third party acquisition or change of control could limit the price investors are willing to pay for shares of our common stock, which could in turn reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change under the terms of the convertible senior notes, certain repurchase rights and early settlement rights would be triggered under the indentures governing our convertible senior notes. In such event, the increase of the conversion or early settlement rate, as applicable, in connection with certain make-whole fundamental change transactions under the terms of our convertible senior notes could discourage a potential acquirer.. 14. Our activities are subject to environmental regulations and liabilities that could have a negative effect on our operating results.. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment. Compliance with these provisions or the promulgation of new environmental laws and regulations may result in delays, may cause us to invest substantial funds to ensure compliance with applicable environmental regulations and can prohibit or severely restrict real estate development activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas.. Our business may suffer if we lose key personnel.. We depend to a large extent on the services of certain key management personnel. These individuals have extensive experience and expertise in our business. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain key-man life insurance with respect to any of our employees. Our success may be dependent on our ability to continue to employ and retain skilled personnel.. Development of real estate entails a lengthy, uncertain and costly entitlement process.. Approval to develop real property entails an extensive entitlement process involving multiple and overlapping regulatory jurisdictions and often requiring discretionary actions by local governments. This process is often political, uncertain and may require significant exactions in order to secure approvals. Real estate projects must generally comply with local land development regulations and may need to comply with state and federal regulations. The process to comply with these regulations is usually lengthy and costly, may not result in the approvals we seek, and can be expected to materially affect our real estate development activities, which may adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Our real estate development operations are currently concentrated in the major markets of Texas, and as a result, our financial results may be significantly influenced by the Texas economy.. The economic growth and strength of Texas, where the majority of our real estate development activity is located, are important factors in sustaining demand for our real estate development activities. A significant decline in oil prices may impact job growth and housing demand in Texas, particularly in Houston, where the energy industry has a significant concentration. As a result, any adverse impact to the economic growth and health, or infrastructure development, of Texas could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Our real estate development operations are highly dependent upon national, regional and local home builders.. We are highly dependent upon our relationships with national, regional, and local home builders to purchase lots in our residential developments. If home builders do not view our developments as desirable locations for homebuilding operations, or if home builders are limited in their ability to conduct operations due to economic conditions, our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.. In addition, we enter into contracts to sell lots to home builders. A home builder could decide to delay purchases of lots in one or more of our developments due to adverse real estate conditions wholly unrelated to our areas of operations, such as the corporate decisions regarding allocation of limited capital or human resources. As a result, we may sell fewer lots and may have lower sales revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Our strategic partners may have interests that differ from ours and may take actions that adversely affect us.. We may enter into strategic alliances or venture relationships as part of our overall strategy for particular developments or regions. While these partners may bring development experience, industry expertise, financing capabilities, local credibility or other competitive attributes, they may also have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are influenced by factors unrelated to our business. We may also be subject to adverse business consequences if the market reputation or financial condition of a partner deteriorates, or if a partner takes actions inconsistent with our interest.. When we enter into a venture, we may rely on our venture partner to fund its share of capital commitments to the venture and to otherwise fulfill its operating and financial obligations. Failure of a venture partner to timely satisfy its funding or other obligations to the venture could require us to elect whether to increase our financial or other operating support of the venture in order to preserve our investment, which may reduce our returns or cause us to incur losses, or to not fund such obligations, which may subject the venture and us to adverse consequences or increase our financial exposure in the project.. Debt within some of our ventures may not be renewed or may be difficult or more expensive to replace.. As of December 31, 2017, our unconsolidated ventures had approximately $85.2 million of debt, of which $80.6 million was non-recourse to us. When debt within our ventures matures, some of our ventures may be unable to renew existing loans or. 15. secure replacement financing, or replacement financing may be more expensive. If our ventures are unable to renew existing loans or secure replacement financing, we may be required to contribute additional equity or elect to loan or contribute funds to our ventures, which could increase our risk. If our ventures secure replacement financing that is more expensive, our profits may be reduced.. Delays or failures by governmental authorities to take expected actions could reduce our returns or cause us to incur losses on certain real estate development projects.. For certain projects, we rely on governmental districts to issue bonds to reimburse us for qualified expenses, such as road and utility infrastructure costs. Bonds must be supported by district tax revenues, usually from ad valorem taxes. Slowing new home sales, decreasing real estate prices or difficult credit markets for bond sales can reduce or delay district bond sale revenues, causing such districts to delay reimbursement of our qualified expenses. Failure to receive timely reimbursement for qualified expenses could adversely affect our cash flows and reduce our returns or cause us to incur losses on certain real estate development projects.. Failure to succeed in new markets may limit our growth.. We may from time to time commence development activity or make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. Our historical experience in existing markets does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including, among others:. • an inability to accurately evaluate local housing market conditions and local economies;. • an inability to obtain land for development or to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities;. • an inability to hire and retain key personnel;. • an inability to successfully integrate operations; and. • lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures."
