[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our expected financial position, results of operations, business and financing plans found in Item 1. Business and Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The words \"may\", \"believes\", \"expects\", \"plans\", \"intends\", \"anticipates\" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effect on us. While management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made, there can be no assurance that future developments affecting us will be those that we anticipate. The actual results of the future events described in such forward-looking statements could differ materially from those stated in such forward-looking statements.. Our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those discussed below. Accordingly, readers of this Annual Report on Form 10-K should consider these factors in evaluating, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on, the forward-looking statements contained herein. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion and product trends.. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion and product trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. The purchasing decisions of consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as brand image, marketing programs and product design. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to these changing consumer preferences in a timely manner while preserving the authenticity and the quality of our brands. Although we attempt to stay abreast of emerging lifestyle and fashion trends and technology advances affecting accessories, any failure by us to identify and respond to such trends could adversely affect consumer acceptance of our existing brand names and product lines, which in turn could adversely affect sales of our products. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In recent years, we have experienced decreasing net sales across all product categories; in particular, net sales of watches have declined, reflecting the decline in the traditional watch market.  If we are unable to adjust our product offerings and reverse the decrease in net sales, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our success depends upon our ability to continue to develop innovative products, including wearable technology.. Our success depends upon our ability to continue to develop innovative products in the respective markets in which we compete. Wearable technology is a growing category of fashion that offers customers new functionality with accessories, including jewelry and smart watches. Our ability to respond to consumer preferences for wearable technology will depend in part on establishing successful partnerships with or acquiring companies that are involved in developing wearable technology. If we are unable to establish such partnerships or make meaningful acquisitions, this could negatively impact our ability to meet customer demands for wearable technology. Additionally, we may be unable to enhance and develop our products to satisfy consumer demands for wearable technology or we may fail to do so in a timely manner or at competitive prices. We may also fail to understand or estimate correctly the dynamics of this new market, such as reserves for sales returns, warranty reserves, inventory reserves or the allowance for bad debts attributable to this new product category. The process of developing new products is complex and uncertain, and involves time, substantial costs and risks, which are further magnified when the development process involves a transition to a new technology platform. Our inability or the inability of our partners, for technological or other reasons, some of which may be beyond our or our partners' control, to enhance, develop, and monetize wearable technology products in a timely manner, or at all, in response to changing consumer preferences for wearable technology, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or could result in our products not achieving market acceptance or becoming obsolete. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products, or if our competitors introduce new or superior products, customers may purchase increasing amounts of products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Further, it may take time to establish a stable position in the wearable technology category and any initial results should not be taken as a guarantee of future trends.. 17. Table of Contents. Any deterioration in the global economic environment, and any resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Uncertainty in global markets, slowing economic growth, high levels of unemployment and eroding consumer confidence can negatively impact the level of consumer spending for discretionary items. This can affect our business as it is dependent on consumer demand for our products. Global economic conditions remain uncertain, and the possibility remains that domestic or global economies, or certain industry sectors of those economies that are key to our sales, may slow or deteriorate, which could result in a corresponding decrease in demand for our products and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We have recently expanded, and intend to further expand, the scope of our product offerings, and new products introduced by us may not achieve consumer acceptance comparable to that of our existing product lines.. We have recently expanded, and intend to further expand, the scope of our product offerings, particularly in the wearable technology space. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products is subject to uncertainty. In addition, we generally make decisions regarding product designs and technology development several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. If trends shift away from our products, if our wearable technology becomes outdated or if we misjudge the market for our product lines, we may be faced with significant amounts of unsold inventory or other conditions which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The failure of new product designs or new product lines to gain market acceptance could also adversely affect our business and the image of our brands. Achieving market acceptance for new products or technology may also require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures to generate consumer demand. These requirements could strain our management, financial and operational resources. If we do not continue to develop innovative products that provide better design, technology and performance attributes than the products of our competitors and that are accepted by consumers, or if our future product lines misjudge consumer demands, we may lose consumer loyalty, which could result in a decline in our sales and market share.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law Public Law No. 115-97, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, following its passage by the United States Congress. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act makes significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, including changing the corporate tax rate to a flat 21% rate, introducing a capital investment deduction in certain circumstances, placing certain limitations on the interest deduction, modifying the rules regarding the usability of certain net operating losses, and making extensive changes to the U.S. international tax system.  The new Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (\"GILTI\") provisions of the Tax Cuts and Job Act requiring the inclusion of certain foreign earnings in U.S. taxable income will increase our effective tax rate in future years.  We are not yet able to reasonably estimate the effect of the GILTI provision of the Tax Cuts and Job Act and have not made any adjustments related to potential GILTI tax in our financial statements.  If applicable, GILTI tax would first apply to our fiscal year 2018 and will be accounted for as incurred under the period cost method.  We are currently in the process of analyzing the effects of this new legislation on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. The impact of these new rules is uncertain and could be adverse.. The effects of economic cycles, terrorism, acts of war and retail industry conditions may adversely affect our business.. Our business is subject to economic cycles and retail industry conditions. Purchases of discretionary fashion accessories, such as our watches, handbags, sunglasses and other products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low and consumers are hesitant to use available credit. In addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war and military action both in the U.S. and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to procure our products from manufacturers for sale to our customers. Any significant declines in general economic conditions, public safety concerns or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on consumer purchases of our products.. The loss of any of our license agreements, pursuant to which a number of our products are produced, may result in the loss of significant revenues and may adversely affect our business.. A significant portion of our sales and net income is, and is expected to continue to be, derived from the sales of products produced under license agreements with third parties. Under these license agreements, we generally have the right to produce, market and distribute certain products utilizing the brand names of other companies. We sell products under certain licensed brands, including, but not limited to, ARMANI EXCHANGE, CHAPS, DIESEL, DKNY, EMPORIO ARMANI, KARL LAGERFELD, KATE SPADE NEW YORK, MARC JACOBS, MICHAEL KORS and TORY BURCH. Sales of our licensed products amounted to approximately 47.0% of our consolidated net sales for fiscal year 2017, including MICHAEL KORS. 18. Table of Contents. product sales, which accounted for approximately 22.6% of our consolidated net sales, and product sales under the ARMANI brands, which accounted for approximately 12.1% of our consolidated net sales.. Our significant license agreements have various expiration dates between 2018 and 2025. In addition, many of our license agreements require us to make minimum royalty payments, subject us to restrictive covenants or require us to comply with certain other obligations and may be terminated by the licensor if these or other conditions are not met or upon certain events. For example, our license agreement with MICHAEL KORS provides the licensor with a right to terminate some or all of the licensing rights if we fail to meet certain net sales thresholds for two consecutive years.  In addition, each of our license agreements with MICHAEL KORS and ARMANI may be terminated by the licensor effective at the end of 2019 if we fail to meet certain net sales thresholds in 2018.  If we are unable to achieve the minimum net sales thresholds, restrictive covenants and/or other obligations of a license in the future, we would need to seek a waiver of the non-compliance from the applicable licensor or amend the agreement to modify the thresholds, covenants or obligations or face the possibility that the licensor could terminate the license agreement before its expiration date.. In addition, we may be unable to renew our existing license agreements beyond the current term or obtain new license agreements to replace any lost license agreements on similar economic terms or at all. For example, in fiscal year 2017, our licensing agreements with ADIDAS and BURBERRY were not renewed upon their expiration. The failure by us to maintain or renew one or more of our existing license agreements could result in a significant decrease in our sales and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our restructuring program may not be successful or we may not fully realize the expected cost savings and/or operating efficiencies from our restructuring plans.. As we announced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, we have implemented, and plan to continue to implement, a restructuring plan to reinvent the Company, strengthen the foundation of the Company for the future and support long-term sales growth and profitability objectives.  The program is intended to touch all aspects of the business, enhance operating capabilities, create greater efficiencies and take advantage of the Company's considerable scale.  We estimate our total restructuring charges will be approximately $150.0 million. During fiscal years 2017 and 2016, we recorded $48.2 million and $27.8 million of restructuring charges, respectively, and we anticipate the remaining restructuring charges will be recorded predominately during fiscal year 2018.  Restructuring plans present significant potential risks that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, including higher than anticipated costs in implementing our restructuring plan, management distraction and employee attrition in excess of headcount reductions. If this program is not successful, then our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Our Second A&R Credit Agreement subjects us to certain covenants.. On January 29, 2018, the Company, as the U.S. borrower, Fossil Group Europe GMBH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, as a non-U.S. borrower, and certain of the Company's foreign subsidiaries from time to time party thereto, entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the \"Second A&R Credit Agreement\") with certain lenders party thereto, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent and an issuing lender, Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agents, HSBC Bank USA, National Association, Compass Bank and Fifth Third Bank, as documentation agents, and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners.  The Second A&R Credit Agreement subjects us to certain covenants, including that we maintain a specific consolidated leverage ratio. These covenants may limit how we are able to conduct our business. The terms of any future indebtedness that we incur could include more restrictive covenants or ratios. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. Our failure to comply with any such covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay those borrowings before their maturity. If we are forced to refinance those borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We have recorded impairment charges in the past and may record impairment charges in the future.. We are required, at least annually, or as facts and circumstances warrant, to test trade names to determine if impairment has occurred. We are also required to test property plant and equipment and other long lived assets for impairment as facts and circumstances warrant. Impairment may result from any number of factors, including adverse changes in assumptions used for valuation purposes, such as actual or projected net sales, growth rates, profitability or discount rates, or other variables. If the. 19. Table of Contents. testing indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge. Should the value of trade names, property plant and equipment and other long lived assets become impaired, it would have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  In fiscal 2017, the Company took a non-cash intangible asset impairment charge of $7.07 per diluted share triggered by the sustained compression of the Company's market capitalization that occurred throughout most of the latter part of the second fiscal quarter.. Our inability to effectively manage our retail store operations could adversely affect our results of operations.. During fiscal year 2017, our global comparable store sales decreased 5.5%. During fiscal year 2018, we intend to open approximately five new stores globally and close 60 to 80 stores, depending on lease negotiations. The success of our retail business depends, in part, on our ability to open new profitable stores, close low performing stores and renew our existing store leases on terms that meet our financial targets. Our ability to open new stores on schedule or at all, to close low performing stores and to renew existing store leases on favorable terms or to operate them on a profitable basis will depend on various factors, including our ability to:. • identify suitable markets for new stores and available store locations;. • negotiate acceptable lease terms for new locations or renewal terms for existing locations;. • manage and expand our infrastructure to accommodate growth;. • hire and train qualified sales associates;. • develop new merchandise and manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis;. • maintain favorable relationships with major developers and other landlords; and. • avoid construction delays and cost overruns in connection with the build-out of new stores.. Our plans to manage our store base may not be successful and the opening of new stores may not result in an increase in our net sales even though they increase our costs. Our inability to effectively manage our retail store base could have a material adverse effect on the amount of net sales we generate and on our financial condition and results of operations.. New technologies could render our wearable technology obsolete.. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of our wearable technology or make such products obsolete. Our inability to enhance our existing wearable technology in a timely manner or to develop and introduce new products that incorporate new technologies and achieve market acceptance in a timely manner could negatively impact our competitive position, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. Increased competition from online only retailers and a highly promotional retail environment may increase pressure on our margins.. The continued increase in e-commerce competitors for retail sales and slowing mall traffic has resulted in significant pricing pressure and a highly promotional retail environment.  In addition, the traditional watch market has declined in recent years.  These factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our costs. If our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Certain key components in our products come from limited sources of supply, which exposes us to potential supply shortages that could disrupt the manufacture and sale of our products.. We and our contract manufacturers currently purchase a number of key components used to manufacture our products from limited sources of supply for which alternative sources may not be readily available. Any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components could significantly harm our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and cause us to lose sales. Interruptions or delays in supply may be caused by a number of factors that are outside of our and our contract or manufacturers' control. In addition, the purchase of these components on a limited source basis subjects us to risks of price increases and potential quality assurance problems. An increase in the cost of components could make our products less competitive and result in lower gross margins. In the event that we can no longer obtain materials from these limited sources of supply, we might not be able to qualify or identify alternative suppliers in a timely fashion. Any extended. 20. Table of Contents. interruption in the supply of any of the key components currently obtained from a limited source or delay in transitioning to a replacement supplier could disrupt our operations and significantly harm our business in any given period. If our supply of certain components is disrupted, our lead times are extended or the cost of our components increases, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially affected.. The loss of key senior management personnel could negatively affect our business.. We depend on our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Kosta N. Kartsotis, our CEO and Chairman. We do not have \"key person\" life insurance policies for any of our personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business.. A data security or privacy breach could damage our reputation, harm our customer relationships, expose us to litigation or government actions, and result in a material adverse effect to our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on information technology systems, the Internet and computer networks for a substantial portion of our retail and e-commerce businesses, including credit card transaction authorization and processing. We also receive and store personal information about our customers and employees, the protection of which is critical to us. In the normal course of our business, we collect, retain, and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. Our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. In addition, personal information is highly regulated at the international, federal and state level.. Despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to theft of physical information, security breaches, hacking attempts, computer viruses and malware, lost data and programming and/or human errors. Any electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security or those of our third-party service providers, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our customer relationships, expose us to litigation and liability, subject us to governmental investigations, fines and enforcement actions, result in negative media coverage and distraction to management and result in a material adverse effect to our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, as a result of security breaches at a number of prominent retailers and other companies, the media and public scrutiny of information security and privacy has become more intense and the regulatory environment related thereto has become more uncertain. As a result, we may incur significant costs in complying with new and existing state, federal, and foreign laws regarding protection of, and unauthorized disclosure of, personal information.. We are subject to laws and regulations in the U.S. and the many countries in which we operate. Violations of laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our operations are subject to domestic and international laws and regulations in a number of areas, including, but not limited to, labor, advertising, consumer protection, real estate, product safety, e-commerce, promotions, intellectual property, tax, import and export, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation, data privacy, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety. Compliance with these numerous laws and regulations is complicated, time consuming and expensive, and the laws and regulations may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the difficulty and cost to comply with them. New laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, could individually or in the aggregate make our products more costly to produce, delay the introduction of new products in one or more regions, cause us to change or limit our business practices, or affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with the numerous laws and regulations affecting our business, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws, regulations or our policies related thereto. Any such violations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results.. Reduced lending by banks could have a negative impact on our customers, suppliers and business partners, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Any reduction in lending by banks may have a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. Although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities currently provide us with sufficient liquidity, the impact of reduced lending on our customers, business partners and suppliers cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. A disruption in the ability of our significant customers or distributors to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses, which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. 21. Table of Contents. Seasonality of our business may adversely affect our net sales and operating income.. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including seasonal cycles, timing of new product introductions, timing of orders by our customers and mix of product sales demand. Our business is seasonal by nature. A significant portion of our net sales and operating income are generated during the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year, which includes the \"back to school\" and Christmas seasons. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during our fiscal fourth quarter depends upon the anticipated level of retail sales during the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In addition, the amount of net sales and operating income generated during our fiscal first quarter depends in part upon the actual level of retail sales during the Christmas season. The seasonality of our business may adversely affect our net sales and operating income during the first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year.. The amount of traffic to our retail stores depends primarily on the success of the shopping malls and retail centers in which our stores are located.. There continues to be a significant decrease in traffic in many of the shopping malls and retail centers in which our stores are located, which has resulted in decreased traffic to our stores.  The resulting decrease in customers for our retail stores has had an adverse effect on our results of operations.   Additionally, several national department store anchors have closed or will be closing a number of their locations in shopping malls, which is likely to further decrease traffic and put increasing financial strain on the operators of those shopping mall locations.  The loss of an anchor or other significant tenant in a shopping mall in which we have a store, or the closure of a significant number of shopping malls in which we have stores, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We have key facilities in the U.S. and overseas, the loss or shut down of any of which could harm our business.. Our administrative, information technology and distribution operations in the U.S. are conducted primarily from two separate facilities located in the Dallas, Texas area. Our operations internationally are conducted from various administrative, distribution and assembly facilities outside of the U.S., particularly in China, Germany, Hong Kong, Vietnam and Switzerland. The complete or temporary loss of use of all or part of these facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our warehouse and distribution facilities in the Dallas, Texas area are operated in a special purpose sub-zone established by the U.S. Department of Commerce Foreign Trade Zone Board. Although the sub-zone allows us certain tax advantages, the sub-zone is highly regulated by the U.S. Customs Service. This level of regulation may cause disruptions or delays in the distribution of our products out of these facilities. Under some circumstances, the U.S. Customs Service has the right to shut down the entire sub-zone and, therefore, our entire warehouse and distribution facilities. During the time that the sub-zone is shut down, we may be unable to adequately meet the supply requests of our customers and our Company-owned retail stores, which could have an adverse effect on our sales, relationships with our customers, and results of operations, especially if the shutdown were to occur during our third or fourth quarter.. Our ability to grow our sales is dependent upon the implementation of our business strategy, which we may not be able to achieve.. Our ability to grow our sales is dependent on the successful implementation of our business strategy. This includes diversification of our product offerings, continuing to develop wearable technology, improving our omni channel capabilities and strategic acquisitions. If we are not successful in the expansion or development of our product offerings or our new products are not profitable or do not generate sales comparable to those of our existing businesses, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.. We also operate FOSSIL brand stores and other non-FOSSIL branded stores globally to further strengthen our brand image. As of December 30, 2017, we operated 544 stores worldwide. The costs associated with leasehold improvements to current stores and the costs associated with opening new stores and closing low performing stores could materially increase our costs of operation.. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels.. We maintain an inventory of selected products that we anticipate will be in high demand. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or the sale of excess inventory at prices below our standard levels. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair the image of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may. 22. Table of Contents. experience inventory shortages, which might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business.. Our license agreements may require minimum royalty commitments regardless of the level of product sales under these agreements.. Under our license agreements, we have in the past experienced, and could again in the future experience, instances where our minimum royalty commitments exceeded the royalties payable based upon our sales of the licensed products. Payments of minimum royalties in excess of the royalties based on our sales of the licensed products reduce our margins and could adversely affect our results of operations.. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delays and increase costs.. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the raw materials used in our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or ability to meet our customers' demands. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including natural resources, increased freight costs, increased labor costs, especially in China, and weather conditions. In the future, we may not be able to pass on all, or a portion of, such higher raw materials prices to our customers.. We rely on third-party assembly factories and manufacturers and problems with, or loss of, our assembly factories or manufacturing sources could harm our business and results of operations.. A substantial percentage of our watch and jewelry products are currently assembled or manufactured to our specifications by our majority-owned entities in China, with the remainder assembled or manufactured by independent entities. All of our handbags, small leather goods, belts and soft accessories are produced by independent manufacturers. We have no long-term contracts with these independent assembly factories or manufacturers and compete with other companies for production facilities. All transactions between us and our independent assembly factories or manufacturers are conducted on the basis of purchase orders. We face the risk that these independent assembly factories or manufacturers may not produce and deliver our products on a timely basis, or at all. As a result, we cannot be certain that these assembly factories or manufacturers will continue to assemble or manufacture products for us or that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, shortages of raw materials, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. Our future success will depend upon our ability to maintain close relationships with, or ownership of, our current assembly factories and manufacturers and to develop long-term relationships with other manufacturers that satisfy our requirements for price, quality and production flexibility. Our ability to establish new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, including those relating to payment terms, costs of manufacturing, adequacy of manufacturing capacity, quality control and timeliness of delivery. Any failure by us to maintain long-term relationships with, or ownership of, our current assembly factories and manufacturers or to develop relationships with other manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and distribute our products.. If an independent manufacturer or license partner of ours fails to use acceptable labor practices or otherwise comply with laws, our business could suffer.. While we have a code of conduct for our manufacturing partners, we have no control over the ultimate actions or labor practices of our independent manufacturers. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our independent manufacturers, or by one of our license partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's or license partner's labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S. or other countries in which the violation or divergence occurred, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result, should one of our independent manufacturers or licensors be found in violation of state or international laws, we could suffer financial or other unforeseen consequences.. We extend unsecured credit to our customers and are therefore vulnerable to any financial difficulties they may face.. We sell our merchandise primarily to department stores, specialty retail stores and distributors worldwide. We extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. Should any of our larger customers experience financial difficulties, we could curtail business with such customers or assume more credit risk relating to such customers' receivables. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable relating to such customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. We do not maintain long-term contracts with our customers and are unable to control their purchasing decisions.. We do not maintain long-term purchasing contracts with our customers and therefore have no contractual leverage over their purchasing decisions. A decision by a major department store or other significant customer to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and operating strategy.. We face intense competition in the specialty retail and e-commerce industries and the size and resources of some of our competitors are substantially greater than ours, which may allow them to compete more effectively.. We face intense competition in the specialty retail and e-commerce industry where we compete primarily with specialty retailers, department stores and Internet businesses that engage in the retail sale of watches and accessories. We believe that the principal basis upon which we compete is the quality and design of merchandise and the quality of customer service. We also believe that price is an important factor in our customers' decision-making processes. Many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and generate greater national brand recognition than we can, especially in the developing area of omni-channel retailing. Omni-channel retailing may include retail stores, e-commerce sites, mobile channels and other direct-to-consumer points of contact that enhance the consumer's ability to interact with a retailer in the research, purchase, returning and serving of products. The intense competition and greater size and resources of some of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on the amount of net sales we generate and on our results of operations.. We could be negatively impacted if we fail to successfully integrate businesses we may acquire.. As part of our growth strategy, we have made, and may consider in the future, certain acquisitions, domestically and internationally, including acquisitions of certain watch brands and acquisitions of independent distributors of our products. The integration of future acquisitions may not be successful or generate sales increases. When we have acquired businesses, such as Misfit in December 2015, we have acquired businesses that we believe could enhance our business opportunities and our growth prospects. Acquisitions involve risks that could materially affect our business, financial condition and operating results. These risks include:. • distraction of management from our business operations;. • loss of key personnel and other employees;. • costs, delays, and inefficiencies associated with integrating acquired operations and personnel;. • the impairment of acquired assets and goodwill; and. • acquiring the contingent and other liabilities of the businesses we acquire.. In addition, acquired businesses may not provide us with increased business opportunities or result in the growth that we anticipate. Furthermore, integrating acquired operations is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Combining acquired operations with our current operations may result in lower overall operating margins, greater stock price volatility and quarterly earnings fluctuations. Cultural incompatibilities, career uncertainties and other factors associated with such acquisitions may also result in the loss of employees. Failure to acquire and successfully integrate complementary practices, or failure to achieve the business synergies or other anticipated benefits, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face competition from traditional competitors as well as new competitors in the wearable technology category.. There is intense competition in each of the businesses in which we compete. In all of our businesses, we compete with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors who may have significantly greater financial, distribution, advertising and marketing resources than us. Our competitors include distributors that import watches and accessories from abroad, U.S. companies that have established foreign manufacturing relationships and companies that produce accessories domestically. In addition, we face growing competition from technology companies that have or are launching smart watch products and other wearable technology. These new competitors have not historically competed with us, and many have significantly greater financial, distribution, advertising and marketing resources than us. The impact of the introduction of wearable technology on sales of our traditional product lines, is uncertain, but could be materially adverse. Our results of operations and market position may be adversely affected by our competitors and their competitive pressures in the watch, wearable technology and fashion accessory industries.. 24. Table of Contents. Any material disruption of our information systems could disrupt our business and reduce our sales.. We are increasingly dependent on information systems to operate our websites, process transactions, manage inventory, monitor sales and purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis. We utilize SAP ERP in our U.S. operations and throughout most of our European operations to support our human resources, sales and distribution, inventory planning, retail merchandising and operational and financial reporting systems of our business, and Navision in our Asian operations to support many of the same functions on a local country level. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer \"hackers\" or other causes. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed which could result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and customers or lost sales, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and cause our sales to decline. Moreover, the failure to maintain, or a disruption in, financial and management control systems could have a material adverse effect on our ability to respond to trends in our target markets, market our products and meet our customers' requirements.. In addition, we have e-commerce and other websites in the U.S. and internationally. In addition to changing consumer preferences and buying trends relating to Internet usage, we are vulnerable to certain additional risks and uncertainties associated with the Internet, including changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, security breaches, and consumer privacy concerns. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce Internet sales, increase costs and damage the reputation of our brands.. Changes in the mix of product sales demand could negatively impact our gross profit margins.. Our gross profit margins are impacted by our sales mix as follows:. Sales channel mix:  sales from our direct retail and e-commerce channels typically provide gross margins in excess of our historical consolidated gross profit margins, while sales from our distributor, mass market and off-price channels typically provide gross margins below our historical consolidated gross profit margins.. Product mix:  traditional watch and jewelry sales typically provide gross margins in excess of historical consolidated gross profit margins, while leather goods and private label products typically provide gross margins below our historical consolidated gross profit margins.  In addition, sales of our wearable technology products have produced gross profit margins below our historical consolidated gross profit margins, which we anticipate continuing in fiscal 2018.. Geographic mix:   international sales typically produce gross margins in excess of our historical consolidated gross profit margins, while domestic sales typically provide gross margins below our historical consolidated gross profit margins.. If future sales from our higher gross margin businesses do not increase at a faster rate than our lower gross margin businesses, our gross profit margins may grow at a slower pace, cease to grow, or decrease relative to our historical consolidated gross profit margin.. Our industry is subject to pricing pressures that may adversely impact our financial performance.. We assemble or source many of our products offshore because they generally cost less to make overseas, due primarily to lower labor costs. Many of our competitors also source their product requirements offshore to achieve lower costs, possibly in locations with lower costs than our offshore operations, and those competitors may use these cost savings to reduce prices. To remain competitive, we must adjust our prices from time to time in response to these industry-wide pricing pressures. Our financial performance may be negatively affected by these pricing pressures if we are forced to reduce our prices and we cannot reduce our production costs or our production costs increase and we cannot increase our prices.. The loss of our intellectual property rights may harm our business.. Our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position. We are devoted to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights in those countries where we believe it is important to our ability to sell our products. However, we cannot be certain that the actions we have taken will result in enforceable rights, will be adequate to protect our products in every country where we may want to sell our products, will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or will be adequate to prevent others from seeking to prevent sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Additionally, we rely on the patent, trademark and other intellectual property laws of the U.S. and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. Even if we are successful in obtaining appropriate trademark, patent and other intellectual property rights, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, particularly in those. 25. Table of Contents. countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. Because we sell our products internationally and are dependent on foreign manufacturing in China, we are significantly dependent on foreign countries to protect our intellectual property rights. The use of our intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. Further, if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly and we may not prevail. The failure to obtain or maintain trademark, patent or other intellectual property rights could materially harm our business.. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling certain of our products.. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. The wearable technology space is rapidly developing with new innovation, which will likely result in a significant number of domestic and international patent filings for new technology. As a result, wearable technology companies may be subject to an increasing number of claims that their products infringe the intellectual property rights of competitors or non-practicing entities. As we increase our wearable technology and other product offerings, we have been, are and may in the future be subject to legal proceedings, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties by us and our customers in connection with their marketing and sale of our products. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. Moreover, should we be found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages and cease making or selling certain products. Moreover, we may need to redesign or rename some of our products to avoid future infringement liability. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from manufacturing or selling certain of our products.. An increase in product returns could negatively impact our operating results.. We accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. We continually monitor returns and maintain a provision for estimated returns based upon historical experience and any specific issues identified. However, as we continue to increase our wearable technology product offerings, we do not have the same level of historical experience estimating returns as we have with our other more mature products, which could result in us underestimating the level of returns. In addition, consumer acceptance of wearable technology products and the inherent outdating of technology over time may result in an increase in the amount of returns we accept from our customers. While returns have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. In the event that our products are performing poorly in the retail market and/or we experience product damages or defects at a rate significantly higher than our historical rate, the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on our operating results for the period or periods in which such returns occur.. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the Company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. In addition, discovery and disclosure of a material weakness, by definition, could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Such an occurrence could discourage certain customers or suppliers from doing business with us, result in. 26. Table of Contents. higher borrowing costs and affect how our stock trades. This could in turn negatively affect our ability to access public debt or equity markets for capital.. Risk Factors Relating to Our International Operations. Factors affecting international commerce and our international operations may seriously harm our financial condition.. During fiscal year 2017, we generated 58.5% of our net sales from outside of the U.S., and we anticipate that revenue from our international operations could account for an increasingly larger portion of our net sales in the future. Our international operations are directly related to, and dependent on, the volume of international trade and foreign market conditions. International commerce and our international operations are subject to many risks, some of which are discussed in more detail below, including:. • recessions in foreign economies;. • the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions or the occurrence of trade wars;. • limitations on repatriation of earnings;. • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property or enforcing our intellectual property rights under the laws of other countries;. • longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable;. • difficulties in managing foreign operations;. • social, political and economic instability;. • political tensions between the U.S. and foreign countries;. • compliance with, changes in or adoption of current, new or expanded regulatory requirements, particularly in the wearable technology space;. • our ability to finance foreign operations;. • tariffs and other trade barriers; and. • U.S. government licensing requirements for exports.. The occurrence or consequences of any of these risks may restrict our ability to operate in the affected regions and decrease the profitability of our international operations, which may seriously harm our financial condition.. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition.. We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars. However, we source a significant amount of our products overseas and, as such, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the currencies of these countries, including the Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Chilean peso, Chinese yuan, Danish krone, euro, Hong Kong dollar, Indian rupee, Japanese yen, South Korean won, Malaysian ringgit, Mexican peso, Norwegian kroner, Singapore dollar, Swedish krona, Swiss franc and Taiwanese dollar. Due to our dependence on manufacturing operations in China, changes in the value of the Chinese yuan may have a material impact on our supply channels and manufacturing costs, including component and assembly costs.. 27. Table of Contents. In addition, changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the prices at which we sell products in foreign markets. For fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, 58.5%, 55.4% and 53.8% of our consolidated net sales were generated outside of the U.S. In general, our overall financial results are affected positively by a weaker U.S. dollar and are affected negatively by a stronger U.S. dollar as compared to the foreign currencies in which we conduct our business. For example, due to a generally weaker U.S. dollar in fiscal year 2017, the translation of foreign based net sales into U.S. dollars improved our reported net sales by approximately $23.3 million. If the value of the U.S. dollar remains at its current levels or strengthens further against foreign currencies, particularly against the euro, Canadian dollar, British pound, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, and Australian dollar, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Although we utilize forward contracts to help mitigate foreign currency risks (mostly relating to the euro, Canadian dollar, British pound, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar and U.S. dollar), foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. The European economic uncertainty and any further debt crisis could adversely impact our financial condition.. The European economic situation, particularly with the planned withdrawal by the United Kingdom from the European Union, has contributed to instability in certain international credit markets. During fiscal year 2017, we generated 34.9% of our consolidated net sales from our Europe segment. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in Europe remain uncertain or deteriorate, the value of the euro could decline. Any additional financial instability in stressed European countries could have a contagion effect on the region and contribute to the general instability and uncertainty in the European Union. If this were to occur or if the value of the euro were to weaken against the U.S. dollar, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted.. We depend on independent distributors to sell our products in certain international markets.. Our products are sold in certain international markets through independent distributors. If a distributor fails to meet annual sales goals or breaches the terms of our distribution agreement, it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor. If a change in our distributors becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, as well as a substantial disruption in, and a resulting loss of, sales and profits.. Because we depend on foreign manufacturing, we are vulnerable to changes in economic and social conditions in Asia, particularly China, and disruptions in international travel and shipping.. Because a substantial portion of our watches and jewelry and certain of our handbags, sunglasses and other products are assembled or manufactured in China, our success will depend to a significant extent upon future economic and social conditions existing in China. If the factories in China were disrupted for any reason, we would need to arrange for the manufacture and shipment of products by alternative sources. Because the establishment of new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, including those relating to payment terms, costs of manufacturing, adequacy of manufacturing capacity, quality control and timeliness of delivery, we are unable to predict whether such new relationships would be on terms that we regard as satisfactory. Any significant disruption in our relationships with our manufacturing sources located in China would have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and distribute our products. In addition, restrictions on travel to and from this and other regions, and any delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer deadlines and timely distribute our products in order to match consumer tastes.. We face risks associated with increased political uncertainty.. In the U.S., the change in the U.S. government administration has resulted in uncertainty regarding potential changes in regulations, fiscal policy, social programs, domestic and foreign relations and international trade policies. Potential changes in relationships among the U.S., China, Russia and other countries could have significant impacts on global trade and regional economic conditions, among other things.  In addition, changes in the relationships between the U.S. and its neighbors, such as Mexico, can have significant, potentially negative, impacts on commerce.  Further, anti-American sentiment could harm the reputation and success of U.S. companies doing business abroad.. In Europe, the populist movement resulted in the Brexit vote, and other election results are signaling increasing populist demands and rises in nationalism, which could have a negative impact on economic policy and consequently pose a potential threat to the unity of the European Union.. Our business is dependent upon its international operations, particularly in Asia and Europe.  During fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, we generated 58.5%, 55.4% and 53.8%, respectively, of our net sales outside the U.S.  In addition, we source the vast majority of our products from outside the U.S.. 28. Table of Contents. Our ability to respond to these developments or comply with any resulting new legal or regulatory requirements, including those involving economic and trade sanctions, could reduce our sales, increase our costs of doing business, reduce our financial flexibility and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of our operations.. Risks associated with foreign government regulations and U.S. trade policy may affect our foreign operations and sourcing.. Our businesses are subject to risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulation in the countries in which our manufacturing sources are located, primarily China. While we have not experienced any material issues with foreign governmental regulations that would impact our arrangements with our foreign manufacturing sources, we believe that this issue is of particular concern with regard to China due to the less mature nature of the Chinese market economy and the historical involvement of the Chinese government in industry. If regulations were to render the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impracticable, or if our current foreign manufacturing sources were for any other reason to cease doing business with us, such a development could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and on our supply, manufacturing and distribution channels.. Our business is also subject to risks associated with U.S. and foreign legislation and regulations relating to imports, including quotas, duties, tariffs or taxes, and other charges or restrictions on imports, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to import products at current or increased levels. We cannot predict whether additional U.S. and foreign customs quotas, duties (including antidumping or countervailing duties), tariffs, taxes or other charges or restrictions, requirements as to where raw materials must be purchased, additional workplace regulations or other restrictions on our imports will be imposed upon the importation of our products in the future or adversely modified, or what effect such actions would have on our costs of operations. For example, our products imported to the U.S. are subject to U.S. customs duties and, in the ordinary course of our business, we may from time to time be subject to claims by the U.S. Customs Service for duties and other charges. Factors that may influence the modification or imposition of these restrictions include the determination by the U.S. Trade Representative that a country has denied adequate intellectual property rights or fair and equitable market access to U.S. firms that rely on intellectual property, trade disputes between the U.S. and a country that leads to withdrawal of \"most favored nation\" status for that country and economic and political changes within a country that are viewed unfavorably by the U.S. government. Future quotas, duties or tariffs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future trade agreements could also provide our competitors with an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and financial condition. Substantially all of our import operations are subject to customs duties imposed by the governments where our production facilities are located on imported products, including raw materials.. Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock. Many factors may cause our net sales, operating results and cash flows to fluctuate and possibly decline, which may result in declines in our stock price.. Our net sales, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors may include, but may not be limited to, the following:. • fluctuations in market demand for our products;. • increased competition and pricing pressures;. • our ability to anticipate changing customer demands and preferences;. • our ability to compete in the wearable technology space;. • growth in our international operations;. • our failure to efficiently manage our inventory levels;. • our inability to manage and maintain our debt obligations;. • seasonality in our business;. • changes in our, and our competitors', business strategy or pricing;. • implementation of our restructuring plan;. • the successful management of our Company-owned retail store operations;. 29. Table of Contents. • the timing of certain selling, general and administrative expenses;. • completing acquisitions and the costs of integrating acquired operations;. • international currency fluctuations, operating challenges and trade regulations;. • acts of terrorism or acts of war; and. • government regulation.. One or more of the foregoing factors may cause our operating expenses to be unexpectedly high or result in a decrease in our net sales during any given period. If these or any other variables or unknowns were to cause a shortfall in revenues or earnings, an increase in our operating costs or otherwise cause a failure to meet public market expectations, our stock price may decline and our business could be adversely affected.. Our CEO owns approximately 7.8% of our outstanding common stock.. Mr. Kosta Kartsotis owns approximately 7.8% of our common stock as of December 30, 2017. As a result, he is in a position to influence the outcome of elections of our directors, the adoption, amendment or repeal of our bylaws and any other actions requiring the vote or consent of our stockholders, and to otherwise influence our affairs.. Because the interests of Mr. Kartsotis may not coincide with the interests of other stockholders, Mr. Kartsotis may influence the Company to enter into transactions or agreements that other stockholders would not approve or make decisions with which other stockholders may disagree.. Our organizational documents contain anti-takeover provisions that could discourage a proposal for a takeover.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a proposal for a takeover. These include a provision in our certificate of incorporation authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock and provisions in our bylaws establishing advance notice procedures with respect to certain stockholder proposals. Our bylaws may be amended by a vote of 80% of the Board of Directors, subject to repeal by a vote of 80% of the stockholders. In addition, Delaware law limits the ability of a Delaware corporation to engage in certain business combinations with interested stockholders. Finally, Mr. Kartsotis has the ability, by virtue of his stock ownership, to influence a vote regarding a change in control.. Reports published by securities or industry analysts, including projections in those reports that exceed our actual results, could adversely affect our stock price and trading volume.. Research analysts publish their own quarterly projections regarding our operating results. These projections may vary widely from one another and may not accurately predict the results we actually achieve. Our stock price may decline if we fail to meet securities research analysts' projections. Similarly, if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, our stock price or trading volume could decline.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect our stock price.. The shares of our common stock beneficially owned by Mr. Kartsotis may be sold in the open market in the future, subject to any volume restrictions and other limitations under the Securities Act of 1933 and Rule 144 thereunder. We may also decide to file a registration statement enabling Mr. Kartsotis to sell additional shares. Any sales by Mr. Kartsotis of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of his shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales could occur. These sales or the possibility that they may occur also could make it more difficult for us to raise funds in any equity offering in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate."
