[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flow and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. 11. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond quickly to new and changing fashion trends, customer preferences and other factors, and our inability to anticipate, identify and respond to these changes and trends could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our core market, which is comprised of apparel, jewelry, accessories and gifts for women from 18 to 35-year old, is subject to rapidly shifting fashion trends, customer tastes and demands. Accordingly, our success is dependent on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to the latest fashion trends and customer demands, and to translate such trends and demands into appropriate, saleable product offerings in a timely manner. A small number of our employees are primarily responsible for performing this analysis and making product purchase decisions. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react swiftly and appropriately to new and changing styles, trends or desired image preferences or to accurately anticipate and forecast demand for certain product offerings is likely to lead to lower demand for our merchandise, which could cause, among other things, sales declines, disposing excess inventories and a greater number of markdowns resulting in a decreased merchandise margin. Further, if we are not able to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends and customer preferences, we may lose customers and market share to those of our competitors who are able to better anticipate, identify and respond to such trends and preferences. Because our success depends on our brand image, our business could be materially adversely affected if new product offerings are not accepted by our customers. Our new product offerings may not be met with the same level of acceptance as our past product offerings and we may not be able to adequately respond to fashion trends in a timely manner or the preferences of our customers. If we do not accurately forecast or analyze fashion trends and sales levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.. If we are not able to successfully maintain a broad and shallow merchandise assortment, we may be unable to attract a sufficient number of customers to our boutiques or sell sufficient quantities of our merchandise through our ecommerce website, which could result in excess inventories and markdowns.. We use the term broad and shallow or scarcity to refer to a diverse merchandise assortment with relatively small inventory of each product. We believe that our strategy to offer our customers a broad and shallow merchandise assortment has contributed significantly to the success of our business. Among other things, we believe that this strategy creates a constant sense of newness and scarcity value, which drives repeat boutique visits and increased sales. We believe that this strategy helps us reduce markdowns. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to adequately stock our boutiques with a sufficiently broad and shallow assortment of merchandise. As we increase order volumes in connection with opening new boutiques and expanding our ecommerce operations, it may become increasingly difficult for us to accurately forecast the optimal amount of merchandise to order from our vendors and continue to offer a broad and shallow merchandise assortment at each boutique. If we are unable to offer a broad and shallow merchandise assortment, customers may choose to visit our boutiques less frequently, our brand could be impaired, our market share may decline and our results of operations could deteriorate. Further, any failure to maintain a broad and shallow merchandise assortment could lead to excess inventories which could lead to markdowns and increased marked out-of-stock charges and promotions, which would result in a decrease in our merchandise margin.. Our long-term growth strategy depends in large part upon our ability to successfully open and operate new boutiques each year in a timely and cost-effective manner.. Our long-term strategy to grow our business depends in large part on continuing to successfully open new boutiques each year for the foreseeable future. The success of this strategy will depend largely upon our ability to find a sufficient number of suitable locations, our ability to recruit, hire and train qualified personnel to operate our new boutiques and our ability to scale our infrastructure to successfully integrate our new boutiques.. Our ability to successfully open and operate new boutiques depends on many factors that may be outside of our control including, among others, our ability to:. ·identify desirable boutique locations, primarily in malls, lifestyle centers, street locations and strip centers, as well as other types of shopping venues and outlet malls, which may be difficult and costly, particularly, in an improving real estate environment and as customer shopping patterns evolve;. ·negotiate acceptable lease terms, including favorable levels of tenant allowances, which may be difficult, particularly in an improving real estate environment;. ·maintain out-of-pocket, build-out costs in line with our boutique economic model, including by receiving expected levels of tenant allowances for a portion of our construction expenses, and managing these construction expenses at reasonable levels, which may be difficult, particularly in an improving real estate environment;. ·efficiently source and distribute additional merchandise;. 12. ·hire, train and retain a growing workforce of boutique managers, boutique associates and other personnel;. ·successfully integrate new boutiques into our existing control structure and operations, including our information technology systems;. ·efficiently expand the operations of our distribution facility to meet the needs of a growing boutique network;. ·identify and satisfy the merchandise and other preferences of our customers in new geographic areas and markets; and. ·address competition, merchandising, marketing, distribution and other challenges encountered in connection with expansion into new geographic areas and markets.. Our expansion plans have us opening new boutiques in or near the areas where we have existing boutiques. To the extent that we open boutiques in markets where we already have existing boutiques, we may experience reduced net sales at those existing boutiques. Also, as we expand into new geographic areas, we will need to successfully identify and satisfy the fashion preferences of customers in those areas. We will need to address competition, merchandising, marketing, distribution and other challenges encountered in connection with any expansion and our limited brand recognition in new markets may limit our expansion strategy and cause our business and growth to suffer.  New geographic areas may also have different operational characteristics, including employment and labor, logistics, real estate and legal requirements which may divert financial, operation and managerial resources from our existing operations.. Finally, newly opened boutiques may not be received as well as, or achieve net sales, profitability levels or payback period on our net investment comparable to those of, our existing boutiques in our estimated time periods, or at all. If our boutiques fail to achieve, or are unable to sustain, acceptable net sales and profitability levels, our business may be materially harmed and we may incur significant costs associated with closing or relocating boutiques. Our current expansion plans are only estimates, and the actual number of boutiques we open or close each year and the actual number of suitable locations for our new boutiques could differ significantly from these estimates. If we fail to successfully open and operate new boutiques and execute our long-term growth plans, the price of our common stock could decline.. Our short-term growth strategy depends in large part upon our ability to successfully implement our planned improvements to merchandising and refresh our high-volume boutiques.. In fiscal 2018, we plan to drive short-term growth by moderating boutique openings and focusing on improving our merchandise assortment and optimizing our boutique fleet, with the goal of reducing the number of marginally profitable boutiques, through rent reductions or boutique closures, in an effort to increase the overall profitability of the remaining boutique footprint as well as refreshing a number of our high-volume existing boutiques. The estimated costs and benefits associated with these initiatives may vary materially based on various factors including: timing in execution, outcome of negotiations with landlords, and changes in management’s assumptions and projections. As a result of these events and circumstances, delays and unexpected costs may occur, which could result in our not realizing all, or any portion of, the anticipated benefits of our short-term growth strategy.. We may not be able to efficiently source and distribute the additional merchandise quantities necessary to support our growth.. Our success depends on our ability to source and distribute merchandise efficiently. The sourcing of our merchandise is dependent, in part, on our relationships with our vendors. If we are unable to maintain these relationships, we may not be able to continue to source merchandise at competitive prices that appeal to our customers. If we do not succeed in maintaining good relationships with our vendors or if our growth outpaces the ability of our vendors to scale up and the company cannot identify new vendors to meet the demand for additional merchandise production, the company could see its costs go up or the delivery time on its new orders substantially increase.. Increases in the cost of the raw materials or other inputs used in the production of our merchandise could result in the loss of suppliers, increase our cost of goods sold and occupancy costs and adversely affect our financial results.. The success of our business is in part driven by the compelling price-value proposition we offer our customers. If the costs of the raw materials, particularly cotton, leather and synthetics, used in producing our merchandise increase, our vendors would look to pass these cost increases along to us. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors which are outside of our control, including commodity prices, crop yields and weather patterns. If our vendors attempt to pass any cost increases on to us and we refuse to pay the increases, we could lose certain vendors as suppliers, resulting in the risk that we could not fill our orders in a timely manner or at all. If we pay the increases, we could either attempt to raise retail prices, which could adversely affect our sales and our brand image, or choose not to raise prices, which could adversely affect the profitability of our merchandise sales.. 13. Changes in laws affecting our supply chain and portions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act relating to conflict minerals, may adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of certain materials which may be used in the manufacture of some of our products.. If we are unable to effectively operate, replace or upgrade any of our existing information technology systems, our operations could be disrupted which could adversely affect our financial results.. The efficient operation of our business is significantly dependent on our information technology systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and successfully implementing new systems and controls, including, for example, the recent replacement of our legacy point-of-sale system and introduction of new customer relationship system which we completed in fiscal year 2017 as well as our planned implementation of a new order management system and a new warehouse management system for ecommerce in fiscal year 2018. Any failure of these systems to operate effectively or any difficulty in implementing information technology systems changes could disrupt and adversely impact the promptness and accuracy of our merchandise distribution, transaction processing, financial accounting and reporting, including the implementation of our internal controls over financial reporting, the efficiency of our operations and our ability to properly forecast earnings and cash requirements. Any resulting disruptions could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Our current growth plans will place a strain on our existing resources and could cause us to encounter challenges we have not faced before.. As our number of boutiques and our ecommerce sales grow, our operations will become more complex. While we have grown substantially as a company since inception, much of this growth occurred in recent years. As we move forward, we expect our growth to bring new challenges that we have not faced before. Among other difficulties that we may encounter, this growth will place a strain on our existing infrastructure, including our distribution facilities, information technology systems, financial controls, real estate and boutique operations staff, and may make it more difficult for us to adequately forecast expenditures, such as real estate and construction expenses, and budgeting will become more complex. We may also place increased burdens on our vendors, as we will likely increase the size of our merchandise orders. The increased demands that our growth plans will place on our infrastructure may cause us to operate our business less efficiently, which could cause deterioration in the performance of our existing boutiques. New order delivery times could lengthen as a result of the strains that growth will place on our existing resources and our growth may make it otherwise difficult for us to respond quickly to changing trends, consumer preferences and other factors. This could impair our ability to continue to offer on-trend merchandise which could result in excess inventory, greater markdowns, loss of market share and decreased sales.. Our planned expansion is expected to place increased demands on our existing operational, managerial, administrative and other resources. Specifically, our inventory management and personnel processes may need to be further upgraded to keep pace with our current growth strategy. We cannot anticipate all of the demands that our expanding operations will impose on our business, and our failure to appropriately address these demands could have an adverse effect on us.. Our business is sensitive to consumer spending and economic conditions.. Consumer purchases of discretionary retail items and specialty retail products, which include our apparel, jewelry, accessories and gifts, may be adversely affected by economic conditions such as employment levels, salary and wage levels, the availability of consumer credit, inflation, high interest rates, high tax rates, high fuel prices and consumer confidence with respect to current and future economic conditions. Consumer purchases may decline during recessionary periods or at other times when unemployment is higher or disposable income is lower. These risks may be exacerbated for retailers like us that focus significantly on selling discretionary fashion merchandise. Consumer willingness to make discretionary purchases may decline, may stall or may be slow to increase due to national and regional economic conditions. Our financial performance is particularly susceptible to economic and other conditions in regions or states where we have a significant number of boutiques. There remains considerable uncertainty and volatility in the national and global economy. Further or future slowdowns or disruptions in the economy could adversely affect mall traffic and new mall and shopping center development and could materially and adversely affect us and our growth plans. We may not be able to sustain or increase our current net sales if there is a decline in consumer spending.. A deterioration of economic conditions and future recessionary periods may exacerbate the other risks faced by our business, including those risks we encounter as we attempt to execute our growth plans. Such risks could be exacerbated individually or collectively.. We operate in the highly competitive specialty retail apparel and accessories industry and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, which could adversely impact our growth and market share.. We face intense competition in the specialty retail apparel and accessories industry. We compete on the basis of a combination of factors, including price, breadth, quality and style of merchandise, as well as our in-boutique experience and level of customer service, our brand image and our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to new and changing fashion trends. While we believe that we compete primarily with specialty retailers and internet businesses that specialize in women’s apparel and accessories, we also face competition from department stores, mass merchandisers and value retailers. We believe our primary competitors include specialty apparel and accessories retailers that offer their own private labels. Our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have an adverse effect on our business.. 14. We also compete with a wide variety of large and small retailers for customers, vendors, suitable boutique locations and personnel. The competitive landscape we face, particularly among specialty retailers, is subject to rapid change as new competitors emerge and existing competitors change their offerings. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully and navigate the shifts in our market.. Many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater name recognition and access to greater financial, marketing and other resources. Therefore, these competitors may be able to adapt to changes in trends and customer desires more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. As a result, we may lose market share, which could reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our competitors also utilize advertising and marketing media, including advertising through the use of direct mail, newspapers, magazines, billboards, television and radio, which may provide them with greater brand recognition than we have given our very limited use of traditional advertising.. Our competitors may also sell certain products or substantially similar products through the internet or through outlet centers or discount stores, increasing the competitive pressure for those products. Additionally, the internet and other new technologies facilitate competitive entry and comparison shopping. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on us. Competitive forces and pressures may intensify as our presence in the retail marketplace grows.. We do not possess exclusive rights to many of the elements that comprise our in-boutique experience and merchandise offerings. Some specialty retailers offer a personalized shopping experience that in certain ways is similar to the one we strive to provide to our customers. Our competitors may seek to emulate facets of our business strategy and in-boutique experience, which could result in a reduction of any competitive advantage or special appeal that we might possess. Some of our merchandise offerings are sold to us on a non-exclusive basis. As a result, our current and future competitors, especially those with greater financial, marketing or other resources, may be able to duplicate or improve upon some or all of the elements of our in-boutique experience or merchandise offerings that we believe are important in differentiating our boutiques and our customers’ shopping experience. If our competitors were to duplicate or improve upon some or all of the elements of our in-boutique experience or product offerings, our competitive position and our business could suffer.. Our inability to maintain or increase our comparable sales could adversely impact our net sales, profitability, cash flow and stock price.. We may not be able to sustain or increase comparable sales. If our future comparable sales decline or fail to meet market expectations, our profitability could be harmed and the price of our common stock could decline. The aggregate comparable sales levels of our boutiques have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable sales, including fashion trends, competition, current national and regional economic conditions, pricing, changes in customer shopping patterns, changes in our merchandise mix, prior period comparable sales levels, inventory shrinkage, the timing and amount of markdowns, the success of our marketing programs, holiday timing and weather conditions. Our planned expansion and boutique refreshment may cause additional pressure on our comparable sales. These factors may cause our comparable sales results to be materially lower than in recent periods and lower than market expectations, which could harm our business and our earnings and result in a decline in the price of our common stock.. Our inability to maintain our operating margins could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. We aim to increase our operating margins through scale efficiencies, improved systems, continued cost discipline and enhancements to our merchandise offerings. If we are unable to successfully manage the potential difficulties associated with our growth plans, we may not be able to capture the scale efficiencies that we expect from expansion. If we are not able to capture scale efficiencies, improve our systems, continue our cost discipline and enhance our merchandise offerings, we may not be able to achieve our goals with respect to operating margins. If we do not adequately refine and improve our various ordering, tracking and allocation systems, we may not be able to increase sales and reduce inventory shrinkage. As a result, our operating margins may stagnate or further decline, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. 15. Our ability to attract customers to our boutiques depends on locating our boutiques in suitable locations. Conditions or changes affecting boutique locations, including any decrease in customer traffic, could cause our sales to be less than expected.. Boutique locations and related sales and customer traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic conditions in a particular area, competition from nearby retailers or online selling similar merchandise, changing lifestyle choices of consumers in a particular market and the closing or decline in popularity of other businesses located near our boutiques. Additionally, many of our boutiques are located in shopping malls and other retail centers that benefit from the ability of “anchor” retail tenants, generally large department centers, and other attractions, to generate sufficient levels of consumer traffic in the vicinity of our boutiques.  Numerous retailers have recently announced the closure of a significant number of their stores, mainly in mall and anchor store locations. Changes in areas around our boutique locations or changes in consumer shopping patterns, including a continued shift of consumer spending from brick-and-mortar to online, that result in reductions in customer foot traffic or otherwise render the locations unsuitable could cause our sales to be less than expected. In addition, we may have to respond to these changes by increasing markdowns or increasing promotions to reduce excess inventory in certain boutiques, which could have a material adverse effect on our margins and operating results.. Our business depends on a strong brand image, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, particularly in new markets where we have limited brand recognition, we may be unable to attract a sufficient number of customers to our boutiques or sell sufficient quantities of our merchandise.. We believe that our brand image and brand awareness has contributed significantly to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand image particularly in new markets where we have limited brand recognition is important to maintaining and expanding our customer base. Maintaining and enhancing our brand image may require us to make substantial investments in areas such as merchandising, marketing, boutique operations, community relations, boutique promotions and employee training. These investments may be substantial and may not ultimately be successful.. Our use of traditional advertising channels is limited and if we fail to adequately continue to connect with our customer base, our business could be adversely affected.. We have historically focused on organic, viral and in-boutique marketing to capture the interest of our customers and drive them to our boutiques and website. We limit our use of traditional advertising channels, such as newspapers, magazines, billboards, television, direct mail and radio, which are used by some of our competitors. Although we are currently working to strengthen and evolve our marketing programs, there is no guarantee that such efforts will be successful. We expect to increase our use of both traditional and digital advertising, including social media, such as Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest and Twitter, in the future. If our marketing efforts are not successful, there may be no immediately available or cost effective alternative marketing channel for us to use to build or maintain brand awareness. As we execute our growth strategy, our ability to successfully integrate new boutiques into their surrounding communities or to expand into new markets will be adversely impacted if we fail to connect with our target customers. Failure to successfully connect with our target customers in new and existing markets could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We depend on our senior management personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these individuals or recruit additional personnel, which could harm our business.. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management, particularly Mr. Steven P. Lawrence, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of services of one or more of our named executive officers could impair our ability to manage our business effectively and could have an adverse effect on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable individuals to replace them on a timely basis or at all. Any departures of key personnel could be viewed in a negative light by investors and analysts, which could cause our common stock price to decline. We do not maintain key person insurance on any employee.. In addition to these key employees, we have other employees in positions, including those employees responsible for our merchandising and operations departments that, if vacant, could cause a temporary disruption in our business until such positions are filled.. If we are unable to find, train and retain key personnel, including new boutique employees that reflect our brand image and embody our culture, we may not be able to grow or sustain our operations.. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of boutique employees, including boutique managers, who understand and appreciate our customers, brand and corporate culture, and are able to adequately and effectively represent our culture and establish credibility with our customers. Like most retailers, we experience significant employee turnover rates, particularly among boutique employees. Our planned growth will require us to hire and train even more personnel to manage such growth. If we are unable to hire and retain boutique personnel capable of consistently providing a high level of customer service, as demonstrated by their enthusiasm for our culture, understanding of our customers and knowledge of the merchandise we offer, our ability to open new boutiques may be impaired, the performance of our existing and new boutiques could be materially adversely affected and our brand image may be negatively impacted. There is a high level of competition for experienced, qualified personnel in the retail industry and we compete for personnel with a variety of companies looking to hire for retail positions. Historically, we have prided ourselves on our commitment to employee growth and development and we focus on promoting from within our team. Our growth plans will strain our ability to staff our new boutiques, particularly at the boutique manager level, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain a cohesive and consistently strong team, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business. If we are unable to attract, train and retain employees in the future, we may not be able to serve our customers effectively, thus reducing our ability to continue our growth and to operate our existing boutiques as profitably as we have in the past.. 16. Union attempts to organize our employees could negatively affect our business.. None of our employees are currently subject to a collective bargaining agreement. As we continue to grow and enter different regions, unions may attempt to organize all or part of our employee base at certain boutiques or within certain regions. Responding to such organization attempts may distract management and employees and may have a negative financial impact on individual boutiques, or on our business as a whole.. We have one corporate headquarters and distribution facility and have not yet implemented disaster recovery procedures. Disruptions to the operations at that location could have an adverse effect on our business operations.. Our corporate headquarters and our only distribution facility are located in Houston, Texas. Our distribution facility supports both our boutiques and our ecommerce. Most of our merchandise is shipped from our vendors to the distribution facility and then packaged and shipped from our distribution facility to our boutiques and our ecommerce customers. The success of our boutiques depends on the timely receipt of merchandise because they must receive merchandise in a timely manner in order to stay current with the fashion preferences of our customers. The efficient flow of our merchandise requires that we have adequate capacity and uninterrupted service in our distribution facility to support both our current level of operations, and the anticipated increased levels that may follow from our growth plans. We believe that our current distribution facility is capable of supporting our growth plans for several years.. If we encounter difficulties associated with our distribution facility or if it were to shut down for any reason, including fire, hurricanes, floods, or other natural disaster or severe weather, we could face inventory shortages resulting in “out-of-stock” conditions in our boutiques, and delays in shipments to our customers, resulting in significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our merchandise. See “The current geographic concentration of our boutiques creates an exposure to local economies, regional downturns and severe weather or other catastrophic occurrences that may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations” below. Also, most of our computer equipment and senior management, including critical resources dedicated to merchandising, financial and administrative functions are located at our corporate headquarters. Our management and our operations and distribution staff would need to find an alternative location, causing further disruption and expense to our business and operations. For example, in August 2017, Hurricane Harvey hit south Texas which resulted in the shutdown of corporate headquarters for a few days and disruption in our supply chain for several weeks.. We recognize the need for, and are in the early stages of, developing disaster recovery, business continuity and document retention plans that would allow us to be operational despite casualties or unforeseen events impacting our corporate headquarters or distribution center. Without disaster recovery, business continuity and document retention plans, if we encounter difficulties or disasters with our distribution facility or at our corporate headquarters, our critical systems, operations and information may not be restored in a timely manner, or at all, and this could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our business requires that we lease substantial amounts of space and we may not be able to continue to lease space on terms as favorable as the leases negotiated in the past.. We do not own any real estate. Instead, we lease all of our boutique locations, as well as our corporate headquarters and distribution facility in Houston, Texas. Our boutiques are leased from third parties, with initial lease terms of five to ten years. Many of our lease agreements also have additional five-year renewal options. We believe that we have been able to negotiate favorable rental rates and tenant allowances over the last few years due, in large part, to the state of the economy and higher than usual vacancy rates in a number of regional malls and shopping centers. These trends may not continue, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to negotiate such favorable terms. Many of our leases have early cancellation clauses, which permit the lease to be terminated by us or the landlord if certain sales levels are not met in specific periods or if the shopping venue does not meet specified occupancy standards. In addition to fixed minimum lease payments, most of our boutique leases provide for additional rental payments based on a percentage of sales, or “percentage rent,” if sales at the respective boutiques exceed specified levels, as well as the payment of common area maintenance charges, real property insurance and real estate taxes. Many of our lease agreements have defined escalating rent provisions over the initial term and any extensions. Increases in our already substantial occupancy costs and difficulty in identifying economically suitable new boutique locations could have significant negative consequences, which include:. ·requiring that a greater portion of our available cash be applied to pay our rental obligations, thus reducing cash available for other purposes and reducing our profitability;. ·increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and. ·limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business or in the industry in which we compete.. 17. We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses and to fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to fund these expenses and needs and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us, we may not be able to service our lease expenses, grow our business, respond to competitive challenges or fund our other liquidity and capital needs, which could harm our business. Additional sites that we lease may be subject to long-term non-cancelable leases if we are unable to negotiate our current standard lease terms. If an existing or future boutique is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Moreover, even if a lease has an early cancellation clause, we may not satisfy the contractual requirements for early cancellation under that lease. If we are not able to enter into new leases or renew existing leases on terms acceptable to us, this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our ability to obtain merchandise on a timely basis at competitive prices could suffer as a result of any deterioration or change in our vendor relationships or events that adversely affect our vendors or their ability to obtain financing for their operations.. We have many important vendor relationships that we believe provide us with a competitive advantage. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. Instead, we purchase our merchandise from third-party vendors. Our top 10 vendors sourced approximately 30% of our merchandise in fiscal year 2017 with no single vendor accounting for more than 4% of our purchases. Our business and financial performance depend in large part on our ability to evaluate merchandise quickly for style and then modify any undesirable designs or to improve the quality, look, and fit of the item. We do not have long-term contracts with any of these vendors and we generally operate without any contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products. Rather, we receive and review samples almost daily for fit and fashion evaluation. Any of our vendors could discontinue supplying us with desired products in sufficient quantities for a variety of reasons.. The benefits we currently experience from our vendor relationships could be adversely affected if our vendors:. ·choose to stop providing merchandise samples to us or otherwise discontinue selling merchandise to us;. ·raise the prices they charge us;. ·change pricing terms to require us to pay on delivery or upfront, including as a result of changes in the credit relationships some of our vendors have with their various lending institutions;. ·reduce our access to styles, brands and merchandise by entering into broad exclusivity arrangements with our competitors or otherwise in the marketplace;. ·sell similar merchandise to our competitors with similar or better pricing, many of whom already purchase merchandise in significantly greater volume and, in some cases, at lower prices than we do;. ·lengthen their lead times; or. ·initiate or expand sales of apparel and accessories to retail customers directly through their own stores, catalogs or on the internet and compete with us directly.. We historically have established good working relationships with many small- to mid-sized vendors that often have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories. Market and economic events that adversely impact our vendors could impair our ability to obtain merchandise in sufficient quantities. Such events include difficulties or problems associated with our vendors’ business, finances, labor, ability to import merchandise, costs, production, insurance and reputation. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms or at all in the future, especially if we need significantly greater amounts of inventory in connection with the growth of our business. We may need to develop new relationships with larger vendors, as our current vendors may be unable to supply us with needed quantities and we may not be able to find similar merchandise on the same terms from larger vendors. If we are unable to acquire suitable merchandise in sufficient quantities, at acceptable prices with adequate delivery times due to the loss of or a deterioration or change in our relationship with one or more of our key vendors or events harmful to our vendors occur, it may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 18. A failure in our ecommerce operations could significantly disrupt our business and lead to reduced sales, growth prospects and reputational damage.. While accounting for only 7.0% and 5.0% of our net sales in fiscal years 2017 and 2016, respectively, our ecommerce operations is growing and is an important element of our brand and relationship with our customers. Further expanding ecommerce is an important part of our growth strategy. In addition to changing consumer preferences, shifting traffic patterns and related customer acquisition costs and buying trends in our ecommerce, we are vulnerable to certain additional risks and uncertainties associated with ecommerce sales, including rapid changes in technology, diversion of sales from our boutiques, credit card fraud, website downtime and other technical failures, security breaches, consumer privacy concerns, changes in state tax regimes and government regulation of internet activities. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce our ecommerce sales, increase our costs, diminish our growth prospects, and damage our brand, which could negatively impact our results of operations and stock price.. There is no guarantee that we will be able to further expand our ecommerce operations. Many of our competitors already have ecommerce businesses that are substantially larger and more developed than ours, which places us at a competitive disadvantage. Moreover, online shopping has benefitted from technology improving the online shopping experience and, in many cases, has resulted in a shift of consumer spending from brick-and-mortar to online where competition is even greater since “pure play” internet retailers do not have significant occupancy costs and boutique payroll expenses like we do. If we are unable to further expand our ecommerce operations, our growth plans will suffer and the price of our common stock could decline.. System security risk issues, including our failure to protect our customers’ privacy and disruption of our internal operations or information technology systems, could harm our reputation and adversely affect our financial results and stock price.. Experienced computer programmers and hackers, or even internal users, may be able to penetrate or create systems disruptions or cause shutdowns of our network security or that of third-party companies with which we have contracted to provide services. We generally collect and store customer information for marketing purposes and any compromise of customer information could subject us to customer or government litigation and harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and growth. Breaches of our system, which would compromise our customers’ private information, might cause our customers to lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our website or stop shopping with us altogether. The loss of confidence from a significant data security breach involving employees could also hurt our reputation, cause employee recruiting and retention challenges, increase our labor costs and adversely affect our business and financial results. Moreover, we could incur significant expenses or disruptions of our operations in connection with system failures or data breaches. An increasing number of websites and retailers, including several large internet companies and retailers, have disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their sites. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we buy or license from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the security and operation of the systems. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs, or any problems associated with the outsourced services provided to us, could be significant, and efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service that may impede our sales, distribution or other critical functions.. Almost all states have adopted breach of data security statutes or regulations that require notification to consumers if the security of their personal information is breached, and at least one state has adopted regulations requiring every company that maintains or stores personal information to adopt a comprehensive written information security program. Governmental focus on data security may lead to additional legislative action, and the increased emphasis on information security may lead customers to request that we take additional measures to enhance security or restrict the manner in which we collect and use customer information to gather insights into customer behavior and craft our marketing programs. As a result, we may have to modify our business systems and practices with the goal of further improving data security, which would result in reduced net sales, increased expenditures and operating complexity. Any compromise of our security or accidental loss or theft of customer data in our possession could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and stock price.. Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could materially adversely impact our business.. There has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including weblogs (blogs), social media websites (such as Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter and Instagram), and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. Many social media platforms immediately publish the content to their subscribers and participants posts, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. The dissemination of information online could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, regardless of the information’s accuracy. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction.. Other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our business, fraud and out-of-date information. The inappropriate use of social media by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation.. 19. The current geographic concentration of our boutiques creates an exposure to local economies, regional downturns and severe weather or other catastrophic occurrences that may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We operated 73 boutiques in Texas as of February 3, 2018, making Texas our largest market, representing approximately 10% of our total boutiques. We also have boutique concentration in California, Florida and the Northeast region, operating 59 boutiques, 52 boutiques and 126 boutiques in these regions, respectively, as of February 3, 2018. As a result, our business is currently more susceptible to regional conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors, and we are vulnerable to economic downturns in those regions. Any unforeseen events or circumstances that negatively affect these areas could materially adversely affect our sales and profitability. These factors include, among other things, changes in demographics and population and severe weather or natural disasters.. Further, our corporate headquarters and only distribution center are currently located at a single facility in Houston, Texas. Our single distribution center receives, stores and distributes merchandise to all of our boutiques and fulfills all sales for our ecommerce website. Most of our computer equipment and senior management, including critical resources dedicated to merchandising and financial and administrative functions, are located at our corporate headquarters. As described elsewhere in the risk factors in this report, we do not currently have adequate disaster recovery systems and plans at our corporate headquarters and distribution facility. As a result, our business may be more susceptible to regional natural disasters, severe weather and catastrophes than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors. See “We have one corporate headquarters and distribution facility and have not yet implemented disaster recovery procedures. Disruptions to the operations at that location could have an adverse effect on our business operations” above.. A substantial number of our boutiques are located in the northeastern and southeastern United States. These regions of the United States, Texas and other states along the Gulf Coast, in particular, are prone to severe weather conditions. For example, hurricanes have passed through these regions and caused extensive damage. Adverse weather conditions impacting these regions of the United States generally could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Severe weather can also result in weather-related supply disruptions, which could impact our ability to supply boutiques as was the case of Hurricane Harvey which hit south Texas in August 2017 and caused shutdown of our corporate headquarters for a few days and disrupted our supply chain for several weeks. Weather conditions can affect our net sales because inclement weather may discourage travel or require temporary boutique closures, thereby reducing customer traffic. Unseasonably warmer weather during typically colder months or unreasonably colder weather during typically warmer months can also affect the seasonal composition and demand for our merchandise, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. All of our boutique locations expose us to additional diverse risks, given that natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes, such as telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, fires or terrorist attacks, can occur anywhere and could cause disruptions in our operations. Extensive or multiple disruptions in our operations, whether at our boutiques or our corporate headquarters and distribution center, due to natural disasters, severe weather or other catastrophes could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and stock price.. Our results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in energy costs.. Energy costs have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail boutiques and costs to purchase product from our vendors. A continual rise in energy costs could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our merchandise and increase our operating costs and we may be unable to pass along to our customers such increased cost, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and stock price.. Our net sales and merchandise inventory fluctuate on a seasonal basis, leaving our operating results susceptible to adverse changes in seasonal shopping patterns, weather and related risks.. Due to the seasonal nature of the retail industry, we have historically experienced and expect to continue to experience some fluctuations in our net sales and net income. Our net sales and earnings are typically highest in the fourth fiscal quarter due to the year-end holiday season. Net sales during this period cannot be used as an accurate indicator of annual results. Likewise, as is the case with many retailers of apparel, jewelry, accessories and gifts, we typically experience lower net sales in the first fiscal quarter relative to other quarters. If for any reason, including for example poor weather conditions, soft economic environments or loss of consumer confidence, our net sales were below seasonal norms or expectations during typically higher-volume time periods, our net sales, inventory levels and results of operations could be adversely affected. In order to prepare for these periods, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we carry during other parts of the year. This inventory build-up may require us to expend cash faster than is generated by our operations during these periods. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our merchandise during peak shopping periods could result in excess inventory levels which could require us to sell or dispose excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and brand image. We may experience variability in net sales as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new boutique openings, the timing of our boutique refreshments, boutique events, other marketing activities, sales tax holidays and other holidays, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate on a quarterly basis and relative to corresponding periods in prior years.. 20. If our vendors fail to comply with applicable laws, including a failure to use acceptable labor practices, or if our vendors suffer disruptions in their businesses, we could suffer adverse business consequences.. Our vendors source the merchandise sold in our boutiques and our ecommerce website from manufacturers both inside and outside of the United States. Although each of our purchase orders is subject to our vendor manuals or policies, which require compliance with labor, immigration, manufacturing and product safety, environmental and other laws, we do not supervise, control or audit our vendors or the manufacturers that produce the merchandise we sell. The violation, or perception of any violation, of any labor, immigration, manufacturing safety or other laws by any of our vendors or their U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers, such as use of child labor, or the divergence of the labor practices followed by any of our vendors or these manufacturers from those generally accepted in the United States, could damage our brand image or subject us to boycotts by our customers or activist groups.. Any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us by our vendors and materially harm our operations. Political and financial instability outside the United States, strikes, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur or acts of war or terrorism in the United States or worldwide, may affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. These factors, which are beyond our control, could materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations or may require us to modify our current business practices or incur increased costs.. Changes in laws, including employment laws, tax laws and laws related to our merchandise could make conducting our business more expensive or otherwise cause us to change the way we do business.. We are subject to numerous regulations, including labor and employment, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection, product safety, environmental and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally or govern the promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of boutiques and warehouse facilities. If these regulations were to change or were violated by our management, employees or vendors, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subject to fines, penalties or other liabilities or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and hurt our business and results of operations.. In addition to increased regulatory compliance requirements, changes in laws could make the ordinary conduct of our business more expensive or require us to change the way we do business. Laws related to employee benefits and treatment of employees, including laws related to limitations on employee hours, immigration laws, child labor laws, supervisory status, leaves of absence, mandated health benefits or overtime pay, could also negatively impact us, such as by increasing compensation and benefits costs for overtime and medical expenses. Moreover, changes in product safety or other consumer protection laws (including the implementation of new privacy protection laws) could lead to increased costs to us for some merchandise, or additional labor costs associated with readying merchandise for sale. It is often difficult for us to plan and prepare for potential changes to applicable laws, and future actions or payments related to these changes could be material to us.. In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”) was enacted. This new legislation includes significant changes to the taxation of business entities, including, among other provisions, a permanent reduction to the corporate income tax rate. While we have estimated the effects of the Tax Act, we continue to refine and update our analysis with the possibility it could change and those changes could adversely impact our business and financial condition.. We will require capital to fund our expanding business, which may not be available to us on satisfactory terms or at all. We plan to use cash from operations to fund our operations and execute our growth strategy. If we are unable to maintain sufficient levels of cash flow, we may not meet our growth expectations or we may require additional financing which could adversely affect our financial health and impose covenants that limit our business activities.. We plan to continue our growth and expansion, including opening a number of new boutiques, remodeling existing boutiques, increasing our omni channel capabilities, and upgrading our information technology systems and other infrastructure as opportunities arise. Our plans to expand our boutique base and refresh existing boutiques may not be successful and the implementation of these plans may not result in expected increases in our net sales even though they increase our costs. To support our expanding business and execute on our growth strategy, we will require significant capital.. We currently primarily depend on cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund our business and growth plans. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund these activities, and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us from our revolving credit facility, we may need additional equity or debt financing. If such financing is not available to us, or is not available on satisfactory terms, our ability to operate and expand our business or respond to competitive pressures would be curtailed and we may need to delay, limit or eliminate planned boutique openings or operations or other elements of our growth strategy. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, your ownership would be diluted.. 21. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which may require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to service debt and limit our financial and operating flexibility in important ways.. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Any borrowings under any future debt financing will require interest payments and need to be repaid or refinanced, could require us to divert funds identified for other purposes to debt service and would create additional cash demands and could impair our liquidity position and add financial risk for us. Diverting funds identified for other purposes for debt service may adversely affect our business and growth prospects. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may need to refinance our debt, dispose of assets or issue equity to obtain necessary funds. We do not know whether we would be able to take any of these actions on a timely basis, on terms satisfactory to us, or at all.. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences to you and your investment in our common stock. For example, our level of indebtedness may:. ·require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. ·limit our ability to pay future dividends;. ·limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, expansion plans and other investments, which may limit our ability to implement our business strategy;. ·heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, the specialty apparel and accessories retail industry or in the general economy and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the specialty apparel and accessories retail industry; or. ·prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise or successfully carrying out our plans to expand our boutique base and product offerings.. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to make payments on our indebtedness or to fund our operations.. The terms of our revolving credit facility do, and the terms of any additional debt financing may, restrict our current and future operations, which could adversely affect our ability to manage our operations and respond to changes in our business.. Our revolving credit facility contains, and any additional debt financing we may incur would likely contain, covenants that restrict our operations, including limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, grant liens, make certain investments, acquisitions loans and advances, sell assets, pay dividends or make distributions or other restricted payments, prepay other indebtedness, engage in mergers or consolidations, change the business conducted by Francesca’s Collections and its subsidiaries, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries or amend certain charter documents and material agreements governing subordinated and junior indebtedness. A failure by us to comply with the covenants or financial ratios contained in our revolving credit facility or any additional debt financing we may incur could result in an event of default, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable and exercise other remedies. If the indebtedness under our revolving credit facility or any additional debt financing we may incur were to be accelerated, our future financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. We are involved on an ongoing basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise that could distract management from our business activities and result in significant liability or damage to our brand.. As a growing company with expanding operations, we increasingly face the risk of litigation and other claims against us. We are involved on an ongoing basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of our business or otherwise, which may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders or employees, and claims relating to employees, commercial disputes, landlord-tenant disputes, intellectual property issues, product-oriented allegations and slip and fall claims. These actions and claims can raise complex factual and legal issues that are subject to risks and uncertainties and could require significant management time. Litigation and other actions and claims against us could result in unexpected expenses and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our operations and our reputation.. 22. We may be unable to protect our trademarks or other intellectual property rights.. We believe that our trademarks are integral to our boutique design, our ecommerce and our success in building our brand image and customer loyalty. We rely on trademark registrations and common law trademark rights to protect the distinctiveness of our brand and have registered those trademarks that we believe are important to our business with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We cannot provide assurance that these registrations will prevent imitation of our name, merchandising concept, boutique design or private label merchandise, or the infringement of our other intellectual property rights by others. In most cases, the merchandise we sell is purchased on a non-exclusive basis from vendors that also sell to our competitors. While we use our brand name on these items, our competitors may seek to replicate aspects of our business strategy and in-boutique experience, thereby diluting the experience we offer and adversely affecting our brand and competitive position. Imitation of our name, concept, boutique design or merchandise in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation of our brand image could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are not aware of any claims of infringement upon or challenges to our right to use any of our brand names or trademarks in the United States. Nevertheless, we cannot be certain that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our merchandise by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our merchandise as a violation of the trademarks or proprietary rights of others. Although we cannot currently estimate the likelihood of success of any such lawsuit or ultimate resolution of such a conflict, such a controversy could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If disputes arise in the future, we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction.. We are currently in the process of registering our trademarks in several foreign countries to seek protection outside the United States. However, international protection of our brand image and the use of these marks may be unavailable or could be limited. Also, other entities may have rights to trademarks that contain portions of our marks or may have registered similar or competing marks for merchandise in foreign countries in which our vendors source our merchandise. There may also be other prior registrations of trademarks identical or similar to our trademarks in other foreign countries of which we are not aware. Accordingly, it may be possible for others to prevent the manufacture of our branded goods in certain foreign countries or the sale or exportation of our branded goods from certain foreign countries to the United States. If we were unable to reach a licensing arrangement with these parties, our vendors may be unable to manufacture our merchandise in those countries. Our inability to register our trademarks or purchase or license the right to use our trademarks or logos in these jurisdictions could limit our ability to obtain supplies from less costly markets or penetrate new markets should our business plan change to include selling our merchandise in those foreign jurisdictions.. Litigation may be necessary to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights or to enforce these rights. Any litigation or claims brought by us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We may be subject to liability and other risks if we, our vendors or the manufacturers of our merchandise infringe upon the trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties, including the risk that we could acquire merchandise from our vendors without the full right to sell it.. We purchase merchandise that may be subject to design copyrights, design patents or otherwise may incorporate protected intellectual property. While we are not involved in the manufacture of any of the merchandise we purchase from our vendors for sale to our customers, we may be subject to liability if our vendors or the manufacturers of our merchandise infringe upon the trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties. We do not independently investigate whether our vendors or the manufacturers with whom they do business legally hold intellectual property rights to the merchandise we purchase. Third parties may bring legal claims, or threaten to bring legal claims, against us that their intellectual property rights are being infringed or violated by our use of intellectual property. Litigation or threatened litigation could be costly and distract our senior management from operating our business. If we were to be found liable for any such infringement, we could be required to pay substantial damages and could be subject to injunctions preventing further infringement. Any payments we are required to make and any injunctions with which we are required to comply as a result of infringement claims could be costly and thereby adversely affect our financial results.. If a third party claims to have licensing rights with respect to merchandise we purchased from a vendor, or if we acquire unlicensed merchandise, we may be obligated to remove this merchandise from our boutiques, incur costs associated with this removal if the distributor or vendor is unwilling or unable to reimburse us and be subject to liability under various civil and criminal causes of action, including actions to recover unpaid royalties and other damages and injunctions. Additionally, we will be required to purchase new merchandise to replace any we remove.. 23. We rely upon independent third-party transportation providers for substantially all of our merchandise shipments.. We currently rely upon independent third-party transportation providers for substantially all of our merchandise shipments, including shipments to all of our boutiques and our direct customers. Our use of outside delivery services for shipments is subject to risks, including increases in fuel prices, which would increase our shipping costs, and employee strikes and inclement weather, which may impact a shipper’s ability to provide delivery services that adequately meet our shipping needs. If we change shipping companies, we could face logistical difficulties that could adversely impact deliveries and we would incur costs and expend resources in connection with such change. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as those received from the independent third-party transportation providers we currently use, which would increase our costs.. Disruptions in transportation, including disruptions at shipping ports through which our merchandise are imported, could prevent us from timely distribution and delivery of merchandise, which could reduce our net sales and operating margin.. From time to time, shipping ports experience capacity constraints, labor strikes, work stoppages or other disruptions that may delay the delivery of imported products. A lengthy contract dispute may lead to protracted delays in the movement of our merchandise, which could further delay the delivery of merchandise to our boutiques and impact net sales and operating margin. Other conditions outside of our control, such as adverse weather conditions or acts of terrorism, could significantly disrupt operations at shipping ports or otherwise impact transportation of the imported merchandise we sell.. Future disruptions in transportation services or at a shipping port at which our merchandise are received may result in delays in the transportation of such merchandise to our distribution center and may ultimately delay the distribution to our boutiques resulting in reduced net sales and / or profitability.. Our ability to source our merchandise efficiently and profitably could be hurt if new trade restrictions are imposed, existing trade restrictions become more burdensome, or the countries where our merchandise are sourced experience political instability.. We currently purchase all of our inventory from domestic vendors, who source our merchandise both domestically and internationally. We believe most of the merchandise sourced by our vendors was produced outside the United States. These vendors, to the extent they obtain merchandise from outside of the United States, are subject to trade restrictions, including tariffs, safeguards or quotas, changes to which could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us. Under the World Trade Organization Agreement, effective January 1, 2005, the United States and other World Trade Organization member countries removed quotas on goods from World Trade Organization members, which in certain instances we believe afford our vendors greater flexibility in importing textile and apparel products from World Trade Organization countries from which they source our merchandise. However, as the removal of quotas resulted in an import surge from China, the United States imposed safeguard quotas on a number of categories of goods and apparel from China, and may impose additional quotas in the future. These and other trade restrictions could have a significant impact on our vendors’ sourcing patterns in the future. The extent of this impact, if any, and the possible effect on our purchasing patterns and costs, cannot be determined at this time. We cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our vendors’ merchandise is currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the United States or foreign governments, nor can we predict the likelihood, type or effect of any restrictions. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions against items we offer in our boutiques, as well as United States or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise to our vendors, and we would expect the costs to be passed along in increased prices to us, which could hurt our profitability.. Additionally, political instability or acts of terrorism, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies and restrictions on the transfer of funds between the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, any of which if they effect the countries where our merchandise are sourced, could adversely affect our merchandise flow and, consequently, cause our sales to decline.. Increases in the minimum wage could have an adverse effect on our financial results.. From time to time, legislative proposals are made to increase the federal minimum wage in the United States, as well as the minimum wage in a number of individual states and municipalities. Legislation to increase the minimum wage is currently pending or being contemplated in some states in which we operate. Base wage rates for many of our employees are at or slightly above the minimum wage. As federal or state minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wage rates of our minimum wage employees, but also the wages paid to our other hourly employees as well. Any increase in the cost of our labor could have an adverse effect on our operating costs, financial condition and results of operations.. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay and discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider to be favorable.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors, preventing them from changing the composition of management. The same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions, among other things:. ·establish a staggered, or classified, board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time;. 24. ·prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors;. ·authorize the issuance by our board of directors of “blank check” preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super-majority voting, special approval, dividend or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock;. ·limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders;. ·prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and. ·establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could substantially impede the ability of our common stockholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change-in-control premium."
