[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Investors are encouraged to carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this document when considering an investment decision with respect to Fred's securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or that management currently deems immaterial, may also impair the Company’s business operations. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If one or more of these events do occur, business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that instance, the trading price of Fred's securities could decline, and investors might lose all or part of their investment.. Competitive and Strategic Risks. We operate in a competitive industry.. The discount retail and retail pharmacy industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with respect to price, store location, in-stock consistency, merchandise quality, assortment and presentation, and customer service with many national, regional and local retailing establishments, including drug stores, independent pharmacies, department stores, discount stores, variety stores, dollar stores, discount clothing stores, grocery stores, outlet stores, convenience stores, warehouse stores and other stores. Our competitors range from smaller, growing companies to considerably larger retail businesses that have greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do. This competitive environment subjects us to various risks, including the ability to continue to provide competitively priced products to our customers that will allow us to maintain profitability and continue store growth. Some of our competitors utilize aggressive promotional activities, advertising programs, and pricing discounts and our results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not respond effectively to these efforts.. Our plans depend significantly on strategies and initiatives designed to improve long-term growth, profitability and shareholder value. Failure to achieve or sustain these plans could affect the Company’s performance adversely.. In fiscal 2017, the Company began implementing a series of initiatives to improve profitability and cashflow, including the following initiatives: improving gross margins through greater reliance on private label merchandise; expanding the rollout of beer and wine; rationalizing the number of Front Store SKU’s; increasing supply chain efficiencies and reduce costs; improving the efficiency of marketing, reducing absolute spending while increasing reach and impressions; maintaining a “zero-based” budgeting process to reduce unnecessary spending; ranking cash flow performance of all stores to determine where investments should be made or reduced; limiting capital expenditures to “break/fix;” and raising cash by monetizing non-core assets.. The successful design and implementation of these initiatives present significant challenges, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, these initiatives may not advance our business strategy as expected. Events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays, and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. If we are unable to realize the anticipated financial performance of these initiatives, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. Any failure to implement these initiatives in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. In addition, the complexity of these initiatives may require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. Our management team must successfully implement administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of these initiatives. These and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from existing core businesses, integrating financial or other systems, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows may be adversely affected.. Further, the success of our merchandising initiatives, particularly those with respect to non-consumable merchandise such as pharmaceutical products, as well as store-specific allocations such as those made to Xpress stores, depends in part upon our ability to predict consistently and successfully the products that our customers will demand and to identify and timely respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences, expectations and needs. If we are unable to select products that are attractive to customers, in amounts that customers are likely to buy products, to timely obtain such products at costs that allow us to sell them at an acceptable profit, or to effectively market such products, then our sales, market share and profitability could be adversely affected. Further, if our merchandising efforts in the areas of general pharmaceutical products and higher margin consumables are unsuccessful, it could be further adversely affected by our inability to offset the lower margins associated with the Company’s other lines of business, such as specialty pharmaceutical products.. We depend on successfully increasing the utilization of our existing stores as well as our new store opening program, for a portion of our growth.. Our growth is dependent on both increases in sales in existing stores and the ability to open new stores. Unavailability of store locations that we deem desirable, delays in the opening of new stores, difficulties in staffing and operating new store locations and the lack of customer acceptance of stores in expanded market areas all may negatively impact our new store growth, the costs associated with new stores and/or the profitability of new stores. Our ability to renew or enter into new leases on favorable terms could affect costs of operations or slow store expansions.. - 11 -. Use of a single supplier of pharmaceutical products and our ability to negotiate satisfactory terms could adversely affect our business.. We have a long-term supply contract from a single supplier, Cardinal Health, for our pharmaceutical operations. Any significant disruption in our relationship with this supplier, deterioration in their financial condition, changes in terms, supplier increases in pharmaceutical costs or an industry-wide change in wholesale business practices, including those of our supplier or the manufacturers with whom our supplier transacts business, could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We could be adversely affected by a decrease in the introduction of new brand name and generic prescription drugs as well as increases in the cost to procure prescription drugs.. New brand name drugs can result in increased drug utilization and associated sales, while the introduction of lower priced generic alternatives typically results in relatively lower sales, but relatively higher gross profit margins. Accordingly, a decrease in the number or magnitude of significant new brand name drugs or generics successfully introduced, or delays in their introduction, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, if we experience an increase in the amounts we pay to procure pharmaceutical drugs, including generic drugs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our gross profit margins would be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to offset such cost increases. Any failure to fully offset any such increased prices and costs or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, any future changes in drug prices could be significantly different than our projections.. We derive a significant portion of our sales from prescription drug sales reimbursed by pharmacy benefit management companies.. We derive a significant portion of our sales from prescription drug sales reimbursed through prescription drug plans administered by pharmacy benefit management (“PBM”) companies. PBM companies typically administer multiple prescription drug plans that expire at various times and provide for varying reimbursement rates, and often limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, known as a formulary, which might not include all of the approved drugs for a particular indication. There can be no assurance that we will continue to participate in any particular PBM company’s pharmacy provider network in any particular future time period. If our participation in the pharmacy provider network for a prescription drug plan administered by one or more of the large PBM companies is restricted or terminated, we expect that our sales would be adversely affected, at least in the short-term. If we are unable to replace any such lost sales, either through an increase in other sales or through a resumption of participation in those plans, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. If we exit a pharmacy provider network and later resume participation, there can be no assurance that we will achieve any particular level of business on any particular pace, or that all clients of the PBM company will choose to include us again in the pharmacy network for their plans, initially or at all. In addition, in such circumstances we may incur increased marketing and other costs in connection with initiatives to regain former patients and attract new patients covered by such plans.. We could be adversely affected by changes in industry pricing benchmarks and drug pricing generally.. It is possible that the pharmaceutical industry or regulators may evaluate and/or develop an alternative pricing reference to replace Average Wholesale Price (“AWP”) or Wholesale Acquisition Cost (“WAC”), which are the pricing references used for many of our PBM contracts, pharmaceutical purchase agreements, retail network contracts, specialty payor agreements and other contracts with third party payors in connection with the reimbursement of drug payments. In addition, many state Medicaid fee-for-service programs (“FFS Medicaid”) may be required to establish pharmacy network payments on the basis of Actual Acquisition Cost (“AAC”). This move to an AAC basis in FFS Medicaid could have an impact in reimbursement practices in other commercial and government segments. Future changes to the use of AWP, WAC or to other published pricing benchmarks used to establish pharmaceutical pricing, including changes in the basis for calculating reimbursement by federal and state health programs and/or other payors, could impact the reimbursement we receive from Medicare and Medicaid programs, the reimbursement we receive from PBM clients and other payors and/or our ability to negotiate rebates and/or discounts with pharmaceutical manufacturers, wholesalers, PBMs and retail pharmacies. A failure or inability to fully offset any increased prices or costs or to modify our operations to mitigate the impact of such increases could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, any future changes in drug prices could be significantly different than our projections. Changes to pharmacy benefit manager Direct and Indirect Remuneration Fees could adversely affect future performance. The effect of these possible changes on our business cannot be predicted at this time.. Our ability to achieve the results of store closures under our strategic plan initiatives could adversely affect our business.. As part of our continuing operations, we perform research and analysis to identify underperforming stores and to determine if store closure is necessary. For example, in fiscal 2016 the decision was made to close approximately 40 underperforming stores in fiscal 2017, for which we could no longer foresee a path to profitability. The estimated costs and charges associated with these and future store closures may vary materially and adversely based upon various factors, including the timing of execution, the outcome of negotiations with landlords and other third parties, or unexpected costs, any of which could result in our not realizing the anticipated benefits from the strategic plan.. - 12 -. Our private brand offerings expose us to various additional risks.. In addition to brand name products, we offer our customers private brand products that are not available from other retailers. We seek to continue to grow our exclusive private brand offerings as part of our growth strategy, including through the expanded offerings of brands we own or license on an exclusive basis, as well as through selective acquisitions. Maintaining consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of our private brand offerings for our customers, as well as the timely development and introduction of new products, is important in differentiating us from other retailers and developing and maintaining customer loyalty. Although we believe that our private brand products offer value to our customers and typically provide us with higher gross margins than comparable national brand products we sell, the expansion of our private brand offerings also subjects us to additional risks, such as potential product liability risks and mandatory or voluntary product recalls; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights and successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; our ability to successfully administer and comply with applicable contractual obligations and regulatory requirements; and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, sell and market exclusive branded offerings for retail. An increase in sales of our private brands may also adversely affect sales of our vendors’ products, which, in turn, could adversely affect our relationship with certain of our vendors. Any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business operations, results of operations and financial condition.. Operational Risks. Our business is somewhat seasonal.. We typically realize a slightly larger portion of our net sales during the holiday selling season in the first and fourth quarters in addition to the heavier sales volume we experience around the first day of each calendar month. Our inventories and short-term borrowings, if required, increase in anticipation of this holiday season. A seasonal merchandise inventory imbalance could occur if, for any reason, our net sales during the holiday selling season were to fall below seasonal norms. If for any reason our first and fourth quarter results were substantially below expectations, our profitability and operating results could be adversely affected by unanticipated markdowns, especially in seasonal merchandise.. Natural disasters or unusually adverse weather conditions could affect our business.. Unusually adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or similar disruptions, could significantly reduce our net sales. In addition, these disruptions could also adversely affect our supply chain efficiency and make it more difficult for us to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise from suppliers. A number of our stores are located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes and tornadoes and other adverse weather conditions.. Operational difficulties could disrupt our business.. Our stores are managed through a network of geographically dispersed management personnel. Our inability to effectively and efficiently operate our stores, including the ability to control losses resulting from inventory shrinkage, may negatively impact our sales and/or margin. In addition, we rely upon our distribution and logistics network to provide goods to stores in a timely and cost-effective manner; any disruption, unanticipated expense or operational failure related to this process such as a decrease in the capacity of carriers and strikes could negatively impact the timely receipt of merchandise and increase transportation costs disrupting our store operations. Our operation depends on a variety of information technology systems for the efficient functioning of its business. We rely on certain software vendors to maintain and upgrade these systems as needed. We rely on telecommunications carriers to gather and disseminate our operational information. The disruption or failure of these systems or carriers could negatively impact our business operations, results of operations and financial condition.. Merchandise supply and pricing and the interruption of and dependence on imports could adversely affect our business.. We have maintained good relations with our vendors and believe that we are generally able to obtain attractive pricing and other terms from vendors. We purchase a portion of our inventory from foreign suppliers, principally in China. As a result, political instability or other events resulting in the disruption of trade from other countries or the imposition of additional regulations relating to duties on imports could cause significant delays or interruptions in the supply of our merchandise or increase our costs. Also, our cost of goods is affected by the fluctuation of local currencies against the dollar in countries where these goods are produced. Accordingly, changes in the value of the dollar relative to foreign currencies may increase our cost of goods sold and, if we are unable to pass such cost increases on to our customers, decrease our gross margins and ultimately our earnings. We purchase a significant amount of goods from Cardinal Health, McLane and several large domestic and import vendors and any disruption in that supply and or pricing of such merchandise could negatively impact our business operations, results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in consumer demand and product mix and changes in overall economic conditions could adversely affect our business.. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demands and preferences for product mix. A general slowdown in the United States economy, rising personal debt levels, rising foreclosure rates, rising fuel prices, or changes in government aid, social security, and other means that many of our customers rely upon may adversely affect the spending of our consumers, which would likely result in lower net sales than expected on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, changes in the types of products available for sale and the selection of products by our customers affect sales, product mix and margins. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income, such as employment levels, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, inflation, interest rates, and tax rates, could also adversely affect our business by reducing consumer spending or causing consumers to shift their spending to other products. We might be unable to anticipate these buying patterns and implement appropriate inventory strategies, which would adversely affect our sales and gross profit performance. In addition, increases in fuel and energy costs would increase our transportation costs and overall cost of doing business and could adversely affect our financial statements as a whole.. - 13 -. Delays in openings and costs of operating new stores could have an adverse impact on our business.. One of our key business strategies is to expand our base of retail stores. We plan to expand and refresh our network of stores through new store openings and by remodeling existing stores each year. Delays in opening, refreshing or remodeling stores could adversely affect our future operations by slowing growth, which may in turn reduce revenue and margin growth. Adverse changes in the cost to operate distribution facilities and stores, such as changes in labor, utilities, fuel and transportation, and other operating costs, could have an adverse impact on us.. Changes in our ability to attract and retain employees, and changes in health care and other insurance costs could adversely affect our business.. Our growth could be adversely impacted by our inability to attract and retain employees at the store operations level, in distribution facilities, and at the corporate level, including our senior management team. In recent years, we have experienced significant senior management turnover. The marketplace for such key employees is very competitive and limited. Additionally, the retail industry generally has a high turnover rate; therefore, there is a continuous need to recruit and train new store managers and employees. Our failure to retain or successfully replace key personnel at the corporate level may have an adverse effect on our business. Other factors that impact our ability to maintain sufficient levels of qualified employees in all areas of the business include, but are not limited to, our reputation, employee morale, the current macroeconomic environment, competition from other employers, and our ability to offer adequate compensation packages. Adverse changes in health care costs could also adversely impact our ability to achieve our operational and financial goals and to offer attractive benefit programs to our employees.. We are subject to payment-related risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business.. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, gift cards and mobile payment technologies, and we may offer new payment options over time. Acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. These requirements and related interpretations may change over time, which could make compliance more difficult or costly. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which could increase over time and raise our operating costs. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. If these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could disrupt our business. The payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by persons who seek to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit any weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. If we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements, or if data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data relating to our payment systems, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments could be impaired. In addition, our reputation could suffer and our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which could result in higher costs and/or reduced sales and materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. A significant disruption in our computer systems could adversely affect our business.. We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage inventory, process customer transactions and record results. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and natural disasters. If our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process customer transactions, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customer, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer.. The nature of our business involves the receipt of personal information about our customers. If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions, credit card brand assessments and fines and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of credit cards in our stores, decline to use our pharmacy department services, or stop shopping at our stores altogether. Such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations.. - 14 -. Cyber-attacks could affect our business. If our information technology (\"IT\") systems are breached due to a cyber-attack, we could experience a material disruption to our IT systems as well as data loss that could have an adverse effect on our business. We could experience operational delays due to the disruption of our IT systems. Future results could be negatively impacted by data theft, destruction or loss, or unplanned release of confidential information. In addition to the operational and data losses we could experience from a cyber-attack, the Company's reputation with our customers, vendors or other third-party affiliates could be damaged.. Divestiture of our specialty pharmacy businesses or any other business line, including those that we have acquired or will acquire, may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, or may result in impairment charges that may adversely affect our results of operations.. Divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain contingent liabilities related to the divested business, any of which could result in a material adverse effect to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Divestitures of previously acquired businesses may result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Future impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of the acquired business or product line, adverse market conditions and changes in the competitive landscape, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business or product line, changes in accounting rules and regulations, and a variety of other circumstances. The amount of any impairment is recorded as a charge to the statement of operations. We may never realize the full value of our goodwill and intangible assets, and any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of these assets may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line.. Regulatory and Legal Risks. We are subject to a broad and complex regulatory framework and may be unable to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable government regulation may result in fines and/or penalties, a loss of licensure, registration, and approval or other government enforcement action.. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. In addition, during the past several years, the United States health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation and enforcement activity at both the federal and state levels. Further, uncertainties exist regarding the application of many of these legal requirements to our business. In addition, it is possible that all, or certain provisions of the current health care reform legislation may be modified, repealed or otherwise invalidated. Changes in these laws and regulations and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult to implement. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect the continued operation of our business, including, but not limited to: imposition of civil or criminal penalties; significant fines or monetary penalties; suspension or disgorgement of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications or approvals; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government reimbursement programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; or loss of registrations or licensure.. The regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: the laws and regulations described in the Government Regulation section of Item 1 of this Form 10-K; accounting standards; financial disclosure; securities laws and regulations; federal and state laws and regulations relating to our employees, including those relating to wages, benefits or workplace requirements; federal laws relating to trade, including tariffs and quotas; federal anti-trust laws; tax laws and regulations and their possible reform; laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous materials and wastes; and laws and regulations of the FTC, the Federal Communications Commission, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as state boards of pharmacy and other federal and state regulatory authorities, governing the sale, advertisement and promotion of products that we sell, such as alcoholic beverages, tobacco and drugs. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (“ATF”), Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), DEA and other regulatory agencies regulate the distribution of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. We are required to hold valid ATF, FDA, DEA and state-level registrations and licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various states’ controlled substances acts and their accompanying regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, holding and distribution of controlled substances. The ATF, DEA, FDA and other regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend our registrations and licenses, seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. We are also subject to the terms of various government agreements and mandates, including those described in the Government Regulation section. In that regard, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected by existing and new government legislative, regulatory action and enforcement activity, including, without limitation, any one or more of the following:. <U+25CF>federal and state laws and regulations concerning the submission of claims for reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs;. <U+25CF>federal and state laws and regulations governing the purchase, distribution, tracking, management, compounding, dispensing and reimbursement of prescription drugs and related services, and applicable registration or licensing requirements;. <U+25CF>heighted enforcement of controlled substances regulations;. <U+25CF>the effect of the expiration of patents covering brand name drugs and the introduction of generic products;. <U+25CF>the frequency and rate of approvals by the FDA of new brand name and generic drugs, or of over-the-counter status for brand name drugs;. <U+25CF>rules and regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA and the HITECH Act; and other federal and state laws affecting the collection, use, disclosure and transmission of health or other personal information, such as federal laws on information privacy precipitated by concerns about information collection through the Internet, state security breach laws and state laws limiting the use and disclosure of prescriber information;. <U+25CF>health care fraud and abuse laws and regulations;. - 15 -. <U+25CF>consumer protection laws affecting our health care services, the products we sell, the informational calls we make and/or the marketing of our goods and services;. <U+25CF>federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations applicable to our business, including the management of hazardous substances, storage and transportation of hazardous materials, and various recordkeeping disclosure and procedure requirements promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration that may apply to our operations;. <U+25CF>health care reform, managed care reform and plan design legislation;. <U+25CF>laws against the corporate practice of medicine;. <U+25CF>government regulation of the development, administration, review and updating of formularies and drug lists including requirements and/or limitations around formulary tiering and patient cost sharing;. <U+25CF>drug pricing legislation, including “most favored nation” pricing;. <U+25CF>federal and state laws and regulations establishing or changing prompt payment requirements for payments to retail pharmacies;. <U+25CF>impact of network access legislation or regulations, including “any willing provider” laws, on our ability to manage pharmacy networks;. <U+25CF>ERISA and related regulations;. <U+25CF>administration of Medicare Part D, including legislative changes and/or CMS rulemaking and interpretation;. <U+25CF>Medicare and Medicaid regulations applicable to our business;. <U+25CF>ongoing compliance with consent decrees, corporate integrity agreements, corrective action plans and other agreements with government agencies;. <U+25CF>insurance licensing and other insurance regulatory requirements applicable to offering Medicare Part D programs and services or other health care services; and. <U+25CF>direct regulation of pharmacies by regulatory and quasi-regulatory bodies.. Adverse impacts associated with legal proceedings and claims could affect our business.. We operate in a highly regulated and litigious environment. We are involved in litigation, arbitration and other legal proceedings and subject to investigations, inspections, audits, inquiries and similar actions by governmental authorities arising in the course of our businesses, including those contained in Note 11, Other Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Legal proceedings, in general, and securities and class action litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. Some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. In addition, under the qui tam or “whistleblower” provisions of the federal and various state false claims acts, persons may bring lawsuits alleging that a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute or similar laws has resulted in the submission of “false” claims to federal and/or state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. From time to time, we may also be involved in legal proceedings as a plaintiff involving antitrust, tax, contract, intellectual property and other matters. We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome. Substantial unanticipated verdicts, fines and rulings do sometimes occur. As a result, we could from time to time incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. The outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management’s attention and resources.. - 16 -. We may be subject to product liability claims.. Despite our best efforts to ensure the quality and safety of the products we sell, we may be subject to product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products, including food products that are recalled, defective or otherwise alleged to be harmful. Such claims may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling and transportation of products the Company sells. All of our vendors and their products must comply with applicable product and food safety laws. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from our suppliers. However, if we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our ability to obtain indemnification from foreign suppliers may be hindered by the manufacturers' lack of understanding of U.S. product liability or other laws, which may make it more likely that we be required to respond to claims or complaints from customers as if we were the manufacturer of the products. Even with adequate insurance and indemnification, such claims could significantly damage our reputation and consumer confidence in our products. Our litigation expenses could increase as well, which also could have a materially negative impact on our results of operations, even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued.. Increases in our insurance-related costs could significantly affect our business.. The costs of many types of insurance and self-insurance, especially workers’ compensation and employee health care, have been increasing in recent years due to rising health care costs, legislative changes, economic conditions, terrorism and heightened scrutiny of insurance brokers and insurance providers. Our pharmacy departments are also exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products, including with respect to improper filling of prescriptions, labeling of prescriptions and adequacy of warnings, and are significantly dependent upon suppliers to provide safe, government-approved and non-counterfeit products. We also sell a variety of products that we purchase from a large number of suppliers, including some who operate in foreign countries, which could become subject to contamination, product tampering, mislabeling or other damage. While we maintain reasonable quality assurance practices, no program can provide complete assurance that a product liability issue will not arise. Should a product liability issue arise, the coverage limits under our insurance programs may not be adequate to protect us against future claims. In addition, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Damage to our reputation in the event of a product liability issue could have an adverse effect on our business. If our insurance-related costs increase significantly, or we are unable to renew our insurance policies or protect against all the business risks facing us, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected.. In 2010, Congress passed PPACA, which continues to result in significant structural changes to the health insurance system. Many of these changes were implemented prior to the end of fiscal 2014, and several of the resulting regulations and sub-regulatory guidance have yet to be issued and/or finalized. As a result, uncertainties exist regarding the full impact of PPACA on our business. While the reforms affected the healthcare coverage and plans of Fred's employees as well as our pharmacy department customers, overall, our benefit plan designs already met the affordable and minimum coverage standards PPACA required. We cannot predict what, if any, further effect the PPACA may have on our pharmacy department business, insurance costs or labor. We also cannot predict other legislative or market-driven changes within the health care system that could affect our business.. In January 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order directing federal agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the PPACA to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of any provision of the PPACA that would impose a fiscal or regulatory burden on states, individuals, healthcare providers, health insurers, or manufacturers of pharmaceuticals or medical devices. There have been multiple attempts through legislative action and legal challenges to repeal or amend the PPACA, in whole and in part. We cannot predict whether current or future efforts to repeal or amend these laws will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a repeal or amendment and any subsequent legislation would have on our business. Even if the PPACA remains in effect, significant provisions of PPACA have not yet been finalized and it is uncertain whether or in what form these provisions will be finalized. We cannot predict whether current or future efforts to repeal, amend or otherwise invalidate these laws and adopt new healthcare legislation will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a development would have on our business and operating results. Future legislation or rulemaking or other regulatory actions or developments under the PPACA or otherwise could adversely impact the number of Americans with health insurance and, consequently, prescription drug coverage, increase regulation of pharmacy services, result in changes to pharmacy reimbursement rates, and otherwise change the way we do business. We cannot predict the timing or impact of any future legislative, rulemaking or other regulatory actions, but any such actions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. Tax assessments and unclaimed property audits by governmental authorities could adversely impact our operating results.. We remit a variety of taxes and fees to various governmental authorities, including federal and state income taxes, excise taxes, property taxes, sales and use taxes and payroll taxes. The taxes and fees remitted by us are subject to review and audit by the applicable governmental authorities which could result in liability for additional assessments. In addition, we are subject to unclaimed property (escheat) laws which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time. We may be subject to audit by individual U.S. states with regard to our escheatment practices. The legislation and regulations related to tax and unclaimed property matters tend to be complex and subject to varying interpretations by both government authorities and taxpayers. Although management believes that the positions we have taken are reasonable, various taxing authorities may challenge certain of the positions we have taken, which may also potentially result in additional liabilities for taxes, unclaimed property, interest and penalties in excess of accrued liabilities. Our positions are reviewed as events occur such as the availability of new information, the lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, the conclusion of tax audits, the measurement of additional estimated liabilities based on current calculations, the identification of new tax contingencies or the rendering of relevant court decisions. An unfavorable resolution of assessments by a governmental authority could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods.. - 17 -. Financial and Economic Risks. Current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations by negatively impacting our customers’ disposable income or discretionary spending, affecting our ability to plan and execute our strategic initiatives, increasing our costs of goods sold and selling, general and administrative expenses, and adversely affecting our sales or profitability.. We believe many of our customers have fixed or low incomes and generally have limited discretionary spending dollars. Any factor that could adversely affect that disposable income would decrease our customers’ confidence, spending, and number of trips to our stores, and could cause our customers to shift their spending to products other than those sold by us or to our less profitable product choices, all of which could result in lower net sales, decreases in inventory turnover, greater markdowns on inventory, a change in the mix of products we sell, and a reduction in profitability due to lower margins. Factors that could reduce our customers’ disposable income and over which we exercise no influence include but are not limited to adverse economic conditions such as increased or sustained high unemployment or underemployment levels, inflation, increases in fuel or other energy costs and interest rates, lack of available credit, consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, uncertainty regarding government mandated participation in health insurance programs, increasing healthcare and housing costs, and decreases in, or elimination of, government aid programs such as unemployment and food assistance programs.. Many of the factors identified above that affect disposable income, as well as commodity rates, transportation costs (including the costs of fuel), costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, lease costs, measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade (including increased import duties or tariffs), or changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors, also affect our ability to plan and execute our strategic initiatives, our cost of goods sold, our selling, general and administrative expenses, and our real estate costs, and may have other adverse consequences which we are unable to fully anticipate or control, all of which may adversely affect our sales or profitability. We have limited or no ability to control many of these factors.. In addition, we operate a number of stores in areas that are experiencing a lower or slower recovery following the economic downturn that began in late 2007 than the economy on a national level. A continued softening or slow recovery in consumer spending may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Reduced revenues as a result of decreased consumer spending may also reduce our liquidity and otherwise hinder our ability to implement our long term strategy.. Changes in third-party reimbursements, including government programs, could adversely affect our business.. A significant portion of our sales are funded by federal and state governments and private insurance plans. For the years ended February 3, 2018 and January 28, 2017, pharmaceutical sales were 45.7% and 45.0% of total sales, respectively. The healthcare industry is experiencing a trend toward cost-containment with governments and private insurance plans seeking to impose lower reimbursements and utilization restrictions while also moving to a more outcomes based payment model. Payments made under such programs may not remain at levels comparable to present levels or be sufficient to cover our cost. Private insurance plans may base their reimbursement rates on government rates. Accordingly, reimbursements may be limited or reduced, thereby adversely affecting our revenues and cash flows. Also, access to existing and/or new patients may be hindered or prevented through the implementation of preferred or restricted pharmacy provider networks ultimately impacting the financial results of the pharmacy department. Additionally, and in light of the current macroeconomic environment and recent healthcare legislation such as the PPACA, which includes provisions that are specific to our pharmacy department, government or private insurance plans may adjust scheduled reimbursement payments to us in amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and financial condition.. Our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if needed, could be adversely affected by volatility in the capital markets.. We obtain and manage liquidity from cash flows we generate from our operating activities as well as our access to capital markets, including our credit facilities. Changes in the macroeconomic environment could adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed. Contraction in the credit markets, volatility and low liquidity in the capital markets could result in reduced availability of credit and a higher cost of borrowing, making it more difficult to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to the Company.. - 18 -"
