[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. In addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us.. RISKS RELATED TO THE RAILCAR INDUSTRY. We operate in a highly cyclical industry, and our industry and markets are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including U.S. and international economic conditions. Such factors could adversely affect demand for our railcar offerings.. Historically, the North American railcar market has been highly cyclical and we expect it to continue to be highly cyclical. During the most recent industry cycle, industry-wide railcar deliveries increased from a low of 16,535 railcars in 2010 to a peak of 82,296 railcars in 2015. During this period, our railcar production increased from approximately 2,229 railcars in 2010 to 8,980 railcars in 2015. Our industry and the markets for which we supply railcars are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including U.S. and international economic conditions. Downturns in economic conditions could result in lower sales volumes, lower prices for railcars and a loss of profits. The cyclicality of the markets in which we operate may adversely affect our operating results and cash flow. In addition, fluctuations in the demand for our railcars may cause comparisons of our sales and operating results between different fiscal years to be less meaningful as indicators of our future performance.. We operate in a competitive industry and we may be unable to compete successfully against other railcar manufacturers.. We operate in a competitive marketplace especially in periods of low market demand resulting in excess manufacturing capacity and face substantial competition from established competitors in the railcar industry in North America. We have four principal competitors that primarily manufacture railcars for third-party customers. Some of these manufacturers have greater financial and technological resources than us, and they may increase their participation in the railcar segments in which we compete. In addition to price, competition is based on delivery timing, product performance and technological innovation, quality, customer service and other factors. In particular, technological innovation by any of our existing competitors, or new competitors entering any of the markets in which we do business, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and impair our ability to compete successfully against other railcar manufacturers or retain our market share in our established markets. Increased competition for the sales of our railcar products could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, which could negatively affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend upon a small number of customers that represent a large percentage of our sales. The loss of any single customer, or a reduction in sales to any such customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Since railcars are typically sold pursuant to large, periodic orders, a limited number of customers typically represent a significant percentage of our railcar sales in any given year. Over the last five years, our top five customers in each year based on sales accounted for, in the aggregate, approximately 56% of our total sales. In 2017, sales to our top three customers accounted for approximately 21%, 15% and 12%, respectively, of our total sales. In 2016, sales to our top three customers accounted for approximately 23%, 16% and 15%, respectively, of our total sales. Although we have long-standing relationships with many of our major customers, the loss of any significant portion of our sales to any major customer, the loss of a single major customer or a material adverse change in the financial condition of any one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The variable purchase patterns of our customers and the timing of completion, delivery and customer acceptance of orders may cause our revenues and income from operations to vary substantially each quarter, which will result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly results.. Most of our individual customers do not make purchases every year, since they do not need to replace, replenish or increase their railcar fleets on a yearly basis. Many of our customers place orders for products on an as-needed basis, sometimes only once every few years. As a result, the order levels for railcars, the mix of railcar types ordered and. 9. Table of Contents. the railcars ordered by any particular customer have varied significantly from quarterly period to quarterly period in the past and may continue to vary significantly in the future. Therefore, our results of operations in any particular quarterly period may be significantly affected by the number of railcars delivered and product mix of railcars delivered in any given quarterly period. Additionally, because we record the sale of a new and rebuilt railcar at the time (1) we complete production, (2) the railcar is accepted by the customer following inspection, (3) the risk for any damage or loss with respect to the railcar passes to the customer, and (4) title to the railcar transfers to the customer, and not when the order is taken, the timing of the completion, delivery and acceptance of significant customer orders will have a considerable effect on fluctuations in our quarterly results. As a result of these quarterly fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our sales and operating results between quarterly periods may not be meaningful and, as such, these comparisons should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance.. Our ability to sell new railcars may be limited by other factors, including the availability and price of used railcars offered for sale and new or used railcars offered for lease by leasing companies and others.. Our customers may consider alternatives to the purchase of new railcars, including the purchase of used railcars, refurbishment of existing railcars or the lease of new or used railcars. Our competitors may also be able to offer railcar leases at favorable lease rates, negatively impacting our ability to sell new railcars, which may result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share. These additional competitive factors could negatively affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations.. The potential cost volatility of the raw materials that we use to manufacture railcars, especially aluminum and steel, and delivery delays associated with these raw materials may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The production of railcars and our operations require substantial amounts of steel and aluminum. The cost of steel, aluminum and all other materials (including scrap metal) used in the production of our railcars represents a significant majority of our direct manufacturing costs. Our business is subject to the risk of price increases and periodic delays in the delivery of aluminum, steel and other materials, all of which are beyond our control. Any fluctuations in the price or availability of aluminum or steel, or any other material used in the production of our railcars, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, if any of our suppliers were unable to continue its business or were to seek bankruptcy relief, the availability or price of the materials we use could be adversely affected. Deliveries of our materials may also fluctuate depending on supply and demand for the material or governmental regulation relating to the material, including regulation relating to the importation of the material.. Limitations on the supply of railcar components could adversely affect our business because they may limit the number of railcars we can manufacture.. We rely upon third-party suppliers for various components for our railcars. In the future, suppliers of railcar components may be unable to meet the short-term or longer-term demand of our industry for certain railcar components. In the event that any of our suppliers of railcar components were to stop or reduce their production, go out of business, refuse to continue their business relationships with us, become subject to work stoppages or ration their supply of components, our business could be disrupted. During periods of high or rapidly increasing railcar demand, we have in the past experienced challenges sourcing certain railcar components to meet our production requirements. In addition, our ability to increase our railcar production to expand our business and/or meet any increase in demand, with new or additional manufacturing capabilities, depends on our ability to obtain an adequate supply of these railcar components. While we believe that we could secure alternative sources for these components, we may incur substantial delays and significant expense in doing so, the quality and reliability of these alternative sources may not be the same and our operating results may be significantly affected. In an effort to secure a supply of components, we have developed foreign sources that require deposits on some occasions. In the event of a material adverse business condition, such deposits may be forfeited. In addition, if one of our competitors entered into a preferred supply arrangement with, or was otherwise favored by, a particular supplier, we would be at a competitive disadvantage, which could negatively affect our operating results. Furthermore, alternative suppliers might charge significantly higher prices for railcar components than we currently pay. Such circumstances could have a material adverse impact on our customer relationships, financial condition and results of operations.. 10. Table of Contents. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Lack of acceptance of our new railcar offerings by our customers could adversely affect our business.. Our growth strategy depends in part on our continued development and sale of new railcar designs and design changes to existing railcars to penetrate railcar markets in which we currently do not compete and to expand or maintain our market share in the railcar markets in which we currently compete. We have dedicated significant resources to the development, manufacturing and marketing of new railcar designs. We typically make decisions to develop and market new railcars and railcars with modified designs without firm indications of customer acceptance. New or modified railcar designs may require customers to alter their existing business methods or threaten to displace existing equipment in which our customers may have a substantial capital investment. Many railcar purchasers prefer to maintain a standardized fleet of railcars and railcar purchasers with established railcar fleets are generally resistant to railcar design changes. Therefore, any new or modified railcar designs that we develop may not gain widespread acceptance in the marketplace and any such products may not be able to compete successfully with existing railcar designs or new railcar designs that may be introduced by our competitors.. The level of our reported backlog may not necessarily indicate what our future sales will be and our actual sales may fall short of the estimated sales value attributed to our backlog.. We define backlog as the sales value of products or services to which our customers have committed in writing to purchase from us or lease from us when built, that have not yet been recognized as revenue. In this annual report on Form 10-K, we have disclosed our backlog, or the number of railcars for which we have purchase orders or firm operating leases for railcars to be built, in various periods and the estimated sales value (in dollars) that would be attributable to this backlog once the backlog is converted to actual sales. We consider backlog to be an indicator of future sales of railcars. However, our reported backlog may not be converted into sales in any particular period, if at all, and the actual sales (including any compensation for lost profits and reimbursement for costs) from such contracts may not equal our reported estimates of backlog value. Customer orders may be subject to cancellation, inspection rights and other customary industry terms, and delivery dates may be subject to delay, thereby extending the date on which we will deliver the associated railcars and realize revenues attributable to such railcar backlog or could prevent the backlog from being converted to sales.. Our warranties may expose us to potentially significant claims, which may damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We generally warrant that new railcars produced by us will be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and service identified for a period of up to five years from the time of sale. Accordingly, we may be subject to a risk of product liability or warranty claims in the event that the failure of any of our products results in property damage, personal injury or death, or does not conform to our customers' specifications. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, product liability claims, if made, may exceed our insurance coverage limits or insurance may not continue to be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These types of product liability and warranty claims may result in costly product recalls, significant repair costs and damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. This risk may increase over the short-term due to our limited warranty claim experience for our new product offerings.. To the extent we expand our sales of products and services internationally, we will increase our exposure to international economic and political risks.. Conducting business outside the United States, for example through our sales to other countries, subjects us to various risks, including changing economic, legal and political conditions, work stoppages, currency fluctuations, terrorist activities directed at U.S. companies, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in the United States and the laws of other countries relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. If we fail to obtain and maintain certifications of our railcars and railcar parts in the various countries where we may operate, we may be unable to market and sell our railcars in those countries.. In addition, more stringent rules relating to labor or the environment, adverse tax consequences and price exchange controls could limit our operations and make the distribution of our products internationally more difficult. Furthermore, any material changes in the quotas, regulations or duties on imports imposed by the U.S. government and agencies or on exports by non-U.S. governments and their respective agencies could affect our ability to export the railcars that we manufacture in the United States. The uncertainty of the legal environment could limit our ability to enforce our rights effectively.. 11. Table of Contents. Business that we may acquire in the future may fail to perform to expectations or we may be unable to successfully integrate acquired business with our existing business.. We may engage in future acquisitions, which in each case could materially affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. However, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. Future acquisitions may not strengthen our competitive position or achieve our desired goals and may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and reduce our cash available for operations and other uses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively manage the integration of businesses we may acquire in the future, or be able to retain and motivate key personnel from those businesses.. If we lose key personnel, our operations and ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business may be adversely affected.. We believe our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, both individually and as a group. Our future performance will substantially depend on our ability to retain and motivate them. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business may be adversely affected.. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our senior management team has many years of experience in the railcar industry and other manufacturing and capital equipment industries, it could be difficult to replace any of them without adversely affecting our business operations. Our future success will also depend in part upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We do not currently maintain \"key person\" life insurance.. Shortages of skilled labor may adversely impact our operations.. We depend on skilled labor in the manufacture of railcars. Some of our facilities are located in areas. where demand for skilled laborers often exceeds supply. Shortages of some types of skilled laborers may restrict our ability to maintain or increase production rates and could cause our labor costs to increase.. Labor disputes could disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our management and may have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability.. As of December 31, 2017, we had a collective bargaining agreement with a union representing approximately 6% of our total active labor force that expires on March 31, 2020. Disputes with the unions representing our employees could result in strikes or other labor protests which could disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management from operating our business. If we were to experience a strike or work stoppage, it could be difficult for us to find a sufficient number of employees with the necessary skills to replace these employees. Any such labor disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We rely upon a single supplier to supply us with all of our roll-formed center sills for our railcars, and any disruption of our relationship with this supplier could adversely affect our business.. We rely upon a single supplier to manufacture all of our roll-formed center sills for our railcars, which are based upon our proprietary and patented process. A center sill is the primary longitudinal structural component of a railcar, which helps the railcar withstand the weight of the cargo and the force of being pulled during transport. Our center sill is formed into its final shape without heating by passing steel plate through a series of rollers. Of the new railcars that we produced in 2017 and 2016, 43% and 73%, respectively, were manufactured using this roll-formed center sill. Although we have a good relationship with our supplier and have not experienced any significant delays, manufacturing shortages or failures to meet our quality requirements and production specifications in the past, our supplier could stop production of our roll-formed center sills, go out of business, refuse to continue its business relationship with us or become subject to work stoppages. While we believe that we could secure alternative manufacturing sources, our present supplier is currently the only manufacturer of our roll-formed center sills for our railcars. We may incur substantial delays and significant expense in finding an alternative source, our results of. 12. Table of Contents. operations may be significantly affected and the quality and reliability of these alternative sources may not be the same. Moreover, alternative suppliers might charge significantly higher prices for our roll-formed center sills than we currently pay.. Equipment failures, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to our facilities could lead to production or service curtailments or shutdowns.. We have railcar production facilities in Cherokee, Alabama, Danville, Illinois and Roanoke, Virginia. An unplanned interruption in railcar production capabilities at these facilities, as a result of equipment failure or other factors, could reduce or prevent our production of railcars. A halt of production at any of our manufacturing facilities could severely affect delivery times to our customers. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could result in the termination of contracts, cause us to lose future sales and negatively affect our reputation among our customers and in the railcar industry and our results of operations. Our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, explosions, floods or weather conditions. We may experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to any of our facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. The Company may be unable to renew its lease arrangements at its manufacturing facilities at commercially acceptable terms. Two of our manufacturing facilities are leased from third parties. As each lease expires, we may be unable to negotiate renewals on commercially acceptable terms. Failure to renew our leases at commercially acceptable terms could have a potential adverse impact on our operations.. We might fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, which may result in our loss of market share, or third parties might assert that our intellectual property infringes on their intellectual property, which would be costly to defend and divert the attention of our management.. The protection of our intellectual property is important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property. However, these protections might be inadequate. Our pending or future trademark, copyright and patent applications might not be approved or, if allowed, might not be sufficiently broad. Conversely, third parties might assert that our technologies or other intellectual property infringe on their proprietary rights. In either case, litigation may result, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management team's efforts. Regardless of whether we are ultimately successful in any litigation, such litigation could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our information technology and other systems are subject to cybersecurity risk, including the misappropriation of customer information and other breaches of information security. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, expose us to liability and harm our reputation and business.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data on our networks, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners and personally identifiable information and other personal information of our customers and employees. While we continually work to safeguard our systems and to mitigate potential security risks, our information and processes are exposed to increasing global information security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime, which may result in our data being subject to a security breach, a system failure, a computer virus, malicious software or unauthorized or fraudulent use by our employees or other third parties. Any compromise of our data security and access to or public disclosure or loss of personal or confidential business information could result in legal claims or proceedings with third parties, liability or regulatory penalties under the laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disruption of our operations, damage to our reputation, loss of business or remediation costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. We are subject to risks with respect to changes in U.S. tax law and rates.. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act includes a number of changes to existing U.S. tax laws that impact us, most notably a reduction of the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. The Tax Act also provides for the acceleration of depreciation for certain assets placed into service after September 27, 2017 as well as prospective changes beginning in 2018, including the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction and additional limitations on executive compensation. Changes in our tax provision or an increase to our tax liabilities, whether due to the Tax Act, interpretations thereof or related guidance or other changes relating to the tax laws and rules that are applicable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. As a result of recent changes in the U.S. government, tax reform may be enacted in the near future. These changes could include a reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate, elimination of certain deductions and a border tax adjustment.     We cannot predict whether or not any of these tax reform proposals will ultimately be adopted and, until the details of each proposal have been developed and reviewed, we cannot determine the impact of the proposed legislation on our tax expense. However, any changes could have a significant impact on the Company's business and financial results depending upon the final legislation.. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations and the cost of complying with environmental requirements or any failure by us to comply with such requirements may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing air quality and the handling, disposal and remediation of waste products, fuel products and hazardous substances. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with all of the various regulations and permits applicable to our business, we may not at all times be in compliance with such requirements. The cost of complying with environmental requirements may also increase substantially in future years. If we violate or fail to comply with these regulations, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In addition, these requirements are complex, change frequently and may become more stringent over time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have in the past conducted investigation and remediation activities at properties that we own to address historic contamination. However, there can be no assurance that these remediation activities have addressed all historic contamination. Environmental liabilities that we incur, including those relating to the off-site disposal of our wastes, if not covered by adequate insurance or indemnification, will increase our costs and have a negative impact on our profitability.. The agreement governing our revolving credit facility contains various covenants that, among other things, limit our discretion in operating our business and provide for certain minimum financial requirements.. The agreement governing our revolving credit facility contains various covenants that, among other things, limit our management's discretion by restricting our ability to incur additional debt, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, make investments and other restricted payments and create liens. Our failure to comply with these financial covenants and other covenants under our revolving credit facility could lead to an event of default under the agreement governing any other indebtedness that we may have outstanding at the time, permitting the lenders to accelerate all borrowings under such agreement and to foreclose on any collateral. In addition, any such events may make it more difficult or costly for us to borrow additional funds in the future. Our failure to raise capital if and when needed could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The market price of our securities may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock when desired or at attractive prices.. Since our initial public offering in April 2005 until December 31, 2017, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $10.87 per share to a high of $78.34 per share. The price for our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results and our reported backlog, the cyclical nature of the railcar market, announcements of new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options or other stock awards.. 14. Table of Contents"
