[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to many risks and uncertainties that may affect our future financial performance and our stock price. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our financial performance to vary or that may materially or adversely affect our financial performance or stock price are discussed below.. We could realize losses and suffer liquidity problems due to declines in sales prices for bananas, pineapples and other fresh produce.. Our profitability depends largely upon our profit margins and sales volumes of bananas, pineapples and other fresh produce. In 2015, 2016 and 2017, banana sales accounted for the most significant portion of our total net sales.. Supply of bananas can be increased relatively quickly due to the banana's relatively short growing cycle and the limited capital investment required for banana growing. As a result of imbalances in supply and demand and import regulations, banana prices fluctuate; consequently, our operating results could be adversely affected.. Sales prices for bananas, pineapples and other fresh produce are difficult to predict. It is possible that sales prices for bananas and pineapples will decline in the future, and sales prices for other fresh produce may also decline. In recent years, there has been increasing consolidation among food retailers, wholesalers and distributors. We believe the increasing consolidation among food retailers may contribute to further downward pressure on our sales prices. In the event of a decline in sales prices or. 15. Table of Contents. sales volumes, we could realize significant losses, experience liquidity problems and suffer a weakening in our financial condition. A significant portion of our costs is fixed, so that fluctuations in the sales prices have an immediate impact on our profitability. Our profitability is also affected by our production costs, which may increase due to factors beyond our control.. Due to fluctuations in the supply of and demand for fresh produce, our results of operations are seasonal, and we realize a greater portion of our net sales and gross profit during the first two quarters of each year.. In part as a result of seasonal sales price fluctuations, we have historically realized a greater portion of our gross profit during the first two quarters of each year. The sales price of any fresh produce item fluctuates throughout the year due to the supply of and demand for that particular item, as well as the pricing and availability of other fresh produce items, many of which are seasonal in nature. For example, the production of bananas is continuous throughout the year and production is usually higher in the second half of the year, but the demand for bananas during that period varies because of the availability of seasonal and alternative fruit. As a result, demand for bananas is seasonal and generally results in higher sales prices during the first six months of each calendar year. In the melon market, the entry of many growers selling unbranded or regionally branded melons during the peak North American and European melon growing season results in greater supply, and therefore, lower sales prices from June to October. In the North American and European regions, we realize most of our sales and gross profit for melons, grapes and non-tropical fruit from November to May.. Crop disease, severe weather, natural disasters and other conditions affecting the environment, including the effects of climate change, could result in substantial losses and weaken our financial condition.. Crop disease, severe weather conditions, such as floods, droughts, windstorms and hurricanes, and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, may adversely affect our supply of one or more fresh produce items, reduce our sales volumes, increase our unit production costs or prevent or impair our ability to ship products as planned.  This is particularly true in the case of our premium pineapple product, the Del Monte Gold® Extra Sweet pineapple, because a substantial portion of our production is grown in one region in Costa Rica. Since a significant portion of our costs are fixed and contracted in advance of each operating year, volume declines due to production interruptions or other factors could result in increases in unit production costs, which could result in substantial losses and weaken our financial condition.  We have experienced crop disease, insect infestation, severe weather and other adverse environmental conditions from time to time, including hurricanes, droughts, floods and earthquakes in our sourcing locations.  Severe weather conditions may occur with higher frequency or may be less predictable in the future due to the effects of climate change.  When crop disease, insect infestations, severe weather, earthquakes and other adverse environmental conditions destroy crops planted on our farms or our suppliers' farms or prevent us from exporting them on a timely basis, we may lose our investment in those crops or our purchased fruit cost may increase.  During 2017, we incurred asset impairment and other charges of $2.6 million related to flood damage in our Chilean non-tropical fruit operations and our Philippines banana operations.. The fresh produce and prepared food markets in which we operate are highly competitive.. The fresh produce and prepared food business is highly competitive, and the effect of competition is intensified because most of our products are perishable.  In banana and pineapple markets, we compete principally with a limited number of multinational and large regional producers.  In the case of our other fresh fruit and vegetable products, we compete with numerous small producers, as well as regional competitors. Our sales are also affected by the availability of seasonal and alternative fresh produce.  The extent of competition varies by product. To compete successfully, we must be able to strategically source fresh produce and prepared food of uniformly high quality and sell and distribute it on a timely and regular basis.  In addition, our profitability has depended significantly on the sale of our Del Monte Gold ® Extra Sweet pineapples. Increased competition in the production and sale of Del Monte Gold ® Extra Sweet pineapples could adversely affect our results.  We expect these competitive pressures to continue.. We are subject to material currency exchange risks because our operations involve transactions denominated in various currencies.. We conduct operations in many areas of the world involving transactions denominated in various currencies, and our results of operations, as expressed in dollars, may be significantly affected by fluctuations in rates of exchange between currencies. Although a substantial portion of our net sales (34% in 2017) is denominated in non-dollar currencies, we incur a significant portion of our costs in dollars.  Although we periodically enter into currency forward contracts as a hedge against currency exposures, we may not enter into these contracts during any particular period or these contracts may not adequately offset currency fluctuations.  We generally are unable to adjust our non-dollar local currency sales prices to compensate for fluctuations in the exchange rate of the dollar against the relevant local currency.  In addition, there is normally a time lag between our costs incurred and collection of the related sales proceeds.  Accordingly, if the dollar appreciates relative to the currencies in which we receive sales proceeds, our operating results may be negatively affected.  Our costs are also affected by fluctuations in the value, relative. 16. Table of Contents. to the U.S. dollar, of the currencies of countries in which we have significant production operations, with a weaker dollar resulting in increased production costs.. Our strategy of diversifying our product line, expanding into new geographic markets and increasing the value-added services that we provide to our customers may not be successful.. We are diversifying our product line through acquisitions and internal growth. In addition, we have expanded our service offerings to include a higher proportion of value-added services, such as the preparation of fresh-cut produce, ripening, customized sorting and packing, direct-to-store delivery and in-store merchandising and promotional support. This strategy represents a significant departure from our traditional business of delivering our products to our customers at the port. In recent periods, we have made significant investments in distribution centers, new growing operations and, fresh-cut and prepared food facilities through capital expenditures and have expanded our business into new geographic markets. We may not be successful in anticipating the demand for these products and services, in establishing the requisite infrastructure to meet customer demands or the provision of these value-added services. During recent years, we incurred significant asset impairment and other charges as a result of our continuing efforts to align our diversified product lines to meet market demand.  During 2017, we incurred asset impairments of   $1.5 million due to our decision to cease the development of an investment initiative in Africa and $0.6 million related to underutilized assets in Central America.. We review goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or earlier if indicators for impairment are present.  The goodwill associated with our banana segment is highly sensitive to differences between estimated and actual cash flows and changes in the related discount rate used to evaluate the fair value of this asset.  If the banana segment does not perform to expected levels, the banana segment goodwill may be at risk for impairment in the future.. The fair value of the prepared food unit's trade names and trademarks are highly sensitive to differences between estimated and actual cash flows and changes in the related discount rate used to evaluate the fair value of these assets.  If the prepared food reporting unit does not perform to expected levels, the trade names and trademarks associated with this unit may also be at risk for impairment in the future.  During 2017, we incurred $0.9 million for impairment of the DEL MONTE® perpetual, royalty-free brand name license for beverage products in the United Kingdom due to lower than expected sales volume and pricing related to the prepared food segment.. If we are not successful in our diversification efforts, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Demand for our products is subject to changing consumer preferences.. Consumer preferences for particular food products are subject to fluctuations over time.  Our ability to market and sell our products successfully depends in part on our ability to identify changing consumer preferences and respond to those changes by offering products that appeal broadly to consumers in light of current demands.  Shifts in consumer preferences that can impact demand for our products at any given time can result from a number of factors, including dietary trends, attention to particular nutritional aspects of our products, concerns regarding the health effects of particular ingredients and attention given to ingredient sourcing practices.  Consumer demand for our products also may be impacted by any public commentary that consumers may make regarding our products or similar products, as well as by changes in the level of advertising or promotional support that we employ or that are employed by relevant industry groups or third parties that provide competing products.  If consumer preferences trend negatively with respect to any one or more of our products, our sales volumes may decline as a result.. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, or a reduction in the level of purchases made by these customers, could negatively impact our sales and profits.. Sales to Wal-Mart, Inc., our largest customer, amounted to approximately 9% of our total net sales in 2017, and our top 10 customers collectively accounted for approximately 32% of our total net sales.  We expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a relatively small number of customers.  We believe these customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, desired inventory levels and other factors that may be important to them at the time the purchase decisions are made.  Changes in our customers' strategies or purchasing patterns, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry, may adversely affect our sales.  Additionally, our customers may face financial or other difficulties which may impact their operations and cause them to reduce their level of purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  Customers also may respond to any price increase that we may implement by reducing their purchases from us, resulting in reduced sales of our products.  If sales of our. 17. Table of Contents. products to one or more of our largest customers are reduced, this reduction may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Any bankruptcy or other business disruption involving one of our significant customers also could adversely affect our results of operations.. Increased prices for fuel, packaging materials or short-term refrigerated ship charter rates could increase our costs significantly.. Our costs are determined in large part by the prices of fuel and packaging materials, including containerboard, plastic, resin and tin plate. We may be adversely affected if sufficient quantities of these materials are not available to us. Any significant increase in the cost of these items could also materially and adversely affect our operating results. Other than the cost of our products (including packaging), logistics (sea and inland transportation) costs represent the largest component of cost of products sold.  Third-party containerized shipping rates are also a significant component of our logistic costs.  In recent years these container shipping rates have decreased.  During 2016, cost of fuel decreased 25%, containerboard decreased 4% and fertilizer decreased 13%.  During 2017, cost of fuel increased 36%, containerboard increased 2% and fertilizer decreased 3% resulting in an increase of cost of product sold of $21.7 million.. In addition, we are subject to the volatility of the charter ship market because seven of our refrigerated ships are chartered.  These charters are principally for periods of one to five years.  Charter rates have generally remained relatively stable over the past three years.  As a result, significant increases in fuel, packaging material, fertilizer and charter rates would materially and adversely affect our results.. Compliance with regulation aimed at mitigating the effects of climate change, as discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors, could also increase the cost of fuel for our shipping and logistics operations.  We might be unable to adjust our product pricing to reflect our increased costs.  Even if we are able to adjust our product pricing, our customer's buying patterns could change to reflect a greater reliance on local production rather than imports.. We are subject to the risk of product contamination and product liability claims.. The sales of our products involve the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized personnel, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, or residues introduced during the growing, packing, storage, handling or transportation phases. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, including internal product safety policies, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our brand image. In addition, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. We maintain product liability insurance in an amount that we believe is adequate. However, we cannot be sure that we will not incur claims or liabilities for which we are not insured or that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage, resulting in significant cash outlays that would materially and adversely affect our results and financial condition.. We are subject to legal and environmental risks that could result in significant cash outlays.. We are involved in several legal and environmental matters that, if not resolved in our favor, could require significant cash outlays and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may be subject to product liability claims if personal injury results from the consumption of any of our products.. The EPA has placed a certain site at our former plantation in Oahu, Hawaii on the National Priorities List under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. Under an order entered into with the EPA, we completed a remedial investigation and engaged in a feasibility study to determine the extent of the environmental contamination. The remedial investigation report was finalized in January 1999 and approved by the EPA in February 1999. A final draft feasibility study was submitted for EPA review in December 1999 and updated in December 2001 and October 2002, and approved by the EPA in April 2003. In September 2003, the EPA issued the Record of Decision (\"ROD\"). The EPA estimated in the ROD that the remediation costs associated with the cleanup of our plantation would range from $12.9 million to $25.4 million. The undiscounted estimates are between $13.7 million and $28.7 million. As of December 29, 2017, there are $13.5 million included in other noncurrent liabilities and $0.4 million included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in our Consolidated Balance Sheets relating to the Kunia Well Site clean-up.  We increased the liability by $0.4 million during 2017 and 2016 and decreased the liability by $0.8 million during 2015 due to changes to the remediation work being performed.  Going forward, we expect to expend approximately $0.4 million in 2018, and $4.2 million for 2019 through 2022 on this matter.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings and. 18. Table of Contents. Note 17, \" Litigation \" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  In addition, we are involved in several actions in U.S. and non-U.S. courts involving allegations by numerous Central American and Philippine plaintiffs that they were injured by exposure to a nematocide containing the chemical Dibromochloropropane during the 1970's. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings and Note 17, \"Litigation\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.. Environmental and other regulation of our business, including potential climate change regulation, could adversely impact us by increasing our production cost or restricting our ability to import certain products into the United States.. Our business depends on the use of fertilizers, pesticides and other agricultural products. The use and disposal of these products in some jurisdictions are subject to regulation by various agencies. A decision by a regulatory agency to significantly restrict the use of such products that have traditionally been used in the cultivation of one of our principal products could have an adverse impact on us. For example, most uses of methyl bromide, a pesticide used for fumigation of imported produce (principally melons) for which there is currently no known substitute, were phased out in the United States in 2006.  Also, under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Food Quality Protection Act of 1996, the EPA is undertaking a series of regulatory actions relating to the evaluation and use of pesticides in the food industry.  Similarly, in the EU, regulation (EC) No. 1107/2009 which became effective on June 14, 2011, fundamentally changed the pesticide approval process from the current risk base to hazard criteria based on the intrinsic properties of the substance.  Future actions regarding the availability and use of pesticides could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, if a regulatory agency were to determine that we are not in compliance with a regulation in that agency's jurisdiction, this could result in substantial penalties and a ban on the sale of part or all of our products in that jurisdiction.. There has been a broad range of proposed and promulgated state, national and international regulation aimed at reducing the effects of climate change. Such regulations apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or could have interests in the future.  Exposure to water deficits in particular regions around the globe has become more evident in recent years.  For example, water shortages in Brazil impacted our banana production in the last five years, and our pineapple farms in Kenya were affected by a drought associated with El Nino during 2016 and 2017.  In order to mitigate water risk, we have invested heavily to upgrade existing infrastructure to more efficient irrigation systems like drip or low pressure/low volume sprinkler systems, both in Kenya and Guatemala.  In addition, analysis of water related issues in the specific fiver basin where new development might be planned has become part of the due-diligence process before investing in agriculture operations, as reflected under corporate policy.  Finally water consumption per ton is a key component of the resource usage dashboard under which all our farms are annually rated.. Climate change regulations continue to evolve, and while it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation, it is possible that such regulation could have a material effect in the foreseeable future on our business, results of operations, capital expenditures or financial position.. We are exposed to political, economic and other risks from operating a multinational business.. Our business is multinational and subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. These risks include those of adverse government regulation, including the imposition of import and export duties and quotas, currency restrictions, expropriation and potentially burdensome taxation. For example, banana import regulations have in prior years restricted our access to the EU banana market and increased the cost of doing business in the EU.  In December  2009, the EU entered into an agreement with certain Latin America banana exporting countries to settle the long running dispute over banana import tariffs.  This agreement was ratified in May 2010.  Under this agreement, the EU will gradually reduce import tariffs on bananas from Latin America on an annual basis from the current level of \200122 per ton in 2017 to \200114 per ton by 2019, except for countries under FTA.  Countries under FTA's that have signed bilateral agreements with the EU in 2012 are benefiting from accelerated but gradual reduction of import duties.  FTA's are effect for Central American countries, Columbia, and Peru.  The duty for FTA countries was \20096 per ton in 2017, and the duty is \20089 per ton for 2018 and will be reduced to \20075 by January 1, 2020.  We cannot predict the impact of further changes to the banana import tariffs or new quotas on the EU banana market.. Costa Rica and Ecuador, countries in which we operate, have established \"minimum\" export prices for bananas that are used as the reference point in banana purchase contracts from independent producers, thus limiting our ability to negotiate lower purchase prices. These minimum export price requirements could potentially increase the cost of sourcing bananas in countries that have established such requirements.. We are also subject to a variety of government regulations in countries where we market our products, including the United States, the EU, Asia, countries of the Middle East and Africa. Examples of the types of regulation we face include:. 19. Table of Contents. • sanitary regulations;. • regulations governing pesticide use and residue levels; and. • regulations governing packaging and labeling.. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, it could result in an order barring the sale of part or all of a particular shipment of our products or, possibly, the sale of any of our products for a specified period. Such a development could result in significant losses and could weaken our financial condition.. Acts or omissions of other companies could adversely affect the value of the DEL MONTE® brand.. We depend on the DEL MONTE® brand in marketing our products. We share the DEL MONTE® brand with unaffiliated companies that manufacture, distribute and sell canned or processed fruit and vegetables, dried fruit, snacks and other products. Acts or omissions by these companies, including an instance of food-borne contamination or disease, may adversely affect the value of the DEL MONTE® brand. As a result, our reputation and the value of the DEL MONTE ® brand may be adversely affected by negative consumer perception.. Our success depends on the services of our senior executives, the loss of whom could disrupt our operations.. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the services of our senior management team. We may not be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or attract additional qualified senior management personnel.. We may not be able to successfully consummate and manage ongoing acquisition, joint venture and business partnership activities, which could have an impact on our results.. Our growth strategy is based in part on growth through acquisitions or expansion. Accordingly, we may acquire other businesses or enter into joint ventures or other business partnerships from time to time.  These types of transactions inherently involve a number of risks, including risks related to:. • identifying appropriate acquisition candidates or business partners;. • potential difficulties in successfully integrating acquired operations;. • the quality of products produced by acquired businesses or business partners in comparison to the products we historically have provided;. • any loss of key employees of acquired operations or any inability to hire or retain key employees necessary to integrate an acquired business or otherwise implement our growth strategy;. • potential diversion of our capital and management attention away from other important business matters;. • financial risks, such as potential unknown liabilities of any acquired business;. • potential issues with the financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control systems of any acquired business, joint venture or business partner; and. • in the case of joint ventures and business partnerships, increased potential risks associated with the lesser degree of control that we may be able to exert due to our arrangements with our business partners.. We may incur additional costs and certain redundant expenses in connection with our acquisitions and investments, which may have an adverse impact on our operating margins. Future acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt, use of significant portions of our cash reserves, asset impairments (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) and restructuring and other charges. The incurrence of debt in connection with any future acquisitions also could restrict our ability to obtain working capital or other financing necessary to operate our business. Our recent and future acquisitions or investments may not be successful, and if we fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, our business, operating results and financial position could be harmed.. 20. Table of Contents. We face risks in connection with our pending acquisition of Mann Packing.. The closing of the Mann Packing acquisition (\"Acquisition\") is contingent upon a number of conditions, some of which are beyond our control. For example, the consummation of the Acquisition is subject to review and approval by certain regulatory authorities. Therefore, we are unable to accurately predict when, or if, the Acquisition will close. If we are unable to close the Acquisition for any reason, we will not realize the potential benefits of the Acquisition, which may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects.  In addition, we can provide no assurance that any required regulatory approval will not contain material conditions or restrictions. There also can be no assurance as to the cost, scope or impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the actions that may be required in order to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals.. The success of the Acquisition, if it is completed, will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from integrating the business of Mann Packing with our existing businesses and operations. Even if we are able to integrate the acquired operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the synergies of the Acquisition that we currently expect within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Mann Packing's business may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency following the completion of the Acquisition that it previously achieved or might achieve separately. If we experience difficulties with the integration process or if the business of Mann Packing or the markets in which it operates deteriorate, the potential cost savings, growth opportunities and other synergies of the Acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. We expect to incur a significant amount of non-recurring expenses in connection with the Acquisition, including legal, accounting and integration costs and other expenses. The amounts of these costs and expenses will be based on a variety of factors but may be material in the aggregate. Many of these expenses are payable by us whether or not the Acquisition is completed. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred following consummation of the Acquisition in the course of the integration process. We cannot be certain that the elimination of duplicative costs or the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will offset the transaction and integration costs in the near term, or at all.. Our indebtedness could limit our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks.. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing or refinance our debt on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited either by financial considerations or due to covenants in existing debt agreements.. Our ability to meet our financial obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to meet our financial obligations also may be adversely affected by the seasonal nature of our business, the cyclical nature of agricultural commodity prices, the susceptibility of our product sourcing to crop disease, severe weather and other adverse environmental conditions and other factors.. Since we are a holding company, our ability to meet our financial obligations depends primarily on receiving sufficient funds from our subsidiaries. The payment of dividends or other distributions to us by our subsidiaries may be restricted by the provisions of our credit agreements and other contractual requirements and by applicable legal restrictions on payment of dividends and other distributions.. If we were unable to meet our financial obligations, we would be forced to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness or seeking additional equity capital, strategies which could be unsuccessful. Additional sales of our equity capital could substantially dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders.. Our current credit facility imposes certain operating and financial restrictions on us.  Our failure to comply with the obligations under this facility, including maintenance of financial ratios, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, would permit the lender to accelerate the indebtedness due under the facility.. We are controlled by our principal shareholders.. Members of the Abu-Ghazaleh family, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and one of our directors, are our principal shareholders. As of February 9, 2018, they together directly owned 37.6% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares, and our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer holds, and is expected to continue to hold, an irrevocable annual proxy to vote all of these shares. We expect our principal shareholders to continue to use their interest in our Ordinary Shares to significantly influence. 21. Table of Contents. the direction of our management, the election of our entire board of directors, the method and timing of the payment of dividends, subject to applicable debt covenants and to determine substantially all other matters requiring shareholder approval and to control us. The concentration of our beneficial ownership may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control, may discourage bids for the Ordinary Shares at a premium over their market price and may otherwise adversely affect the market price of the Ordinary Shares.. A substantial number of our Ordinary Shares are available for sale in the public market, and sales of those shares could adversely affect our share price.. Future sales of our Ordinary Shares by our principal shareholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Ordinary Shares. Of the 48,790,890 Ordinary Shares outstanding as of  February 9, 2018, 18,119,783 Ordinary Shares are owned by the principal shareholders and are \"restricted securities.\" These \"restricted securities\" can be registered upon demand and are eligible for sale in the public market without registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (the \"Securities Act\"), subject to compliance with the resale volume limitations and other restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act.. Our organizational documents contain a variety of anti-takeover provisions that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control.. Various provisions of our organizational documents and Cayman Islands law may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us that is not approved by our board of directors. These provisions include:. • a classified board of directors;. • a prohibition on shareholder action through written consents;. • a requirement that general meetings of shareholders be called only by a majority of the board of directors or     by the Chairman of the Board;. • advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations;. • limitations on the ability of shareholders to amend, alter or repeal our organizational documents; and. • the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred shares with such terms as the board of directors may determine.. In addition, a change of control would constitute an event of default under our current credit facility, which would have a material adverse effect on us. These provisions also could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt.. Our shareholders have limited rights under Cayman Islands law.. We are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and our corporate affairs are governed by our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands. Principles of law relating to matters, such as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of our management, directors and controlling shareholders and the rights of our shareholders differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. Further, the rights of shareholders under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent applicable in most U.S. jurisdictions. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. In addition, there is doubt as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands would enforce, either in an original action or in an action for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, liabilities that are predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws."
