[1] "Item 1A. Risk factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have a limited and evolving operating history. If we are unable to implement our business strategy as planned, we will be materially and adversely affected.. We commenced operations approximately five years ago, and our business model is relatively untested and evolving. Businesses like ours that have a limited operating history present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. As a result, we cannot predict our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We only began to generate residential rental revenue during 2013, and our historical financial results have been largely attributable to purchasing residential mortgage loans and other rental-related assets at a discount. As a result of the changes to our acquisition strategy and evolving market conditions, we have not completed any residential mortgage loan portfolio acquisitions since December 2014, and we may not pursue further acquisitions of such loans. Further, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify and successfully acquire portfolios of SFR properties or related assets on favorable terms or at all.. We anticipate significant growth in our rental portfolio, which may result in our inability to effectively manage our rental portfolio, including, but not limited to, delays in renovations, suboptimal tenant underwriting and other operational inefficiencies that could reduce our profitability or damage our reputation. Generally, we expect that our SFR portfolio may grow at an uneven pace, if at all, as opportunities to acquire SFR portfolios on acceptable terms may be irregularly timed and may involve large or small portfolios of SFR properties. The timing and extent of our success in acquiring such assets cannot be predicted due to market conditions, limited financial resources or other constraints.. As a result of the foregoing developments, results from prior periods are not necessarily indicative of our results for any future period, and we may not have sufficient additional capital to implement our business model. There can be no assurance that our business will be profitable or that our profitability will be sustainable. The earnings potential of our business is unproven, and our limited and evolving operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects. We may not be able to implement our business strategy as planned, which could materially and adversely affect us.. We are operating in an emerging industry, and the long-term viability of our investment strategy on an institutional scale is unproven.. Large-scale institutional investment in single-family residential homes for rent is a relatively recent phenomenon that has emerged out of the mortgage and housing crisis that began in late 2007. Prior to that time, SFR homes were generally not viewed as viable assets for investment on a large scale by institutional investors. Consequently, the long-term viability of the SFR property investment strategy on an institutional scale has not yet been proven. As a participant in this emerging industry, we are subject to the risk that SFR properties may not prove to be a viable long-term investment strategy on an institutional scale for a permanent capital vehicle. If it turns out that this investment strategy is not a viable one, we would be materially and adversely affected, and we may not be able to sustain the growth of our assets and results from operations that we seek.. 12. (table of contents). Our failure to raise equity capital and/or obtain adequate debt financing could adversely affect our ability to increase our rental portfolio, manage our existing assets and generate stockholder returns.. Our success has been, and may continue to be, largely dependent on our ability to use our remaining free capital, raise equity capital and/or obtain debt financing to increase the size of our rental portfolio, manage our existing assets and generate attractive stockholder returns. We require significant financial resources and rely on cost-effective leverage to maintain our obligations under our debt facilities and to continue to acquire portfolios of SFR properties. If we are unable to continue to raise equity capital or leverage our portfolio through financing facilities, our current portfolio and cash from operations may become inadequate to meet our financial obligations.. We use leverage as a component of our financing strategy in an effort to increase our buying power and enhance our returns. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to timely access all funds available under our financing arrangements, refinance such financing arrangements or obtain other debt or equity financing on favorable terms or at all.. In any event, limited availability of credit may have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, thereby increasing financing costs and/or requiring us to accept financing with increasing restrictions. Our long-term ability to grow through additional investments will be limited if we cannot obtain additional debt or equity financing.. We may not be able to successfully operate our business or generate sufficient operating cash flows to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully operate our business or generate sufficient cash to make distributions to our stockholders. Our ability to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders depends on many factors, including the following: the availability of attractive risk-adjusted investment opportunities that satisfy our investment strategy and our success in identifying and consummating such opportunities on favorable terms; the level and expected movement of home prices; the occupancy rates and rent levels of rental properties; the restoration, maintenance, marketing and other operating costs related to our SFR and REO properties; the level and volatility of interest rates; our ability to effectively manage a significant increase in the number of properties in our SFR portfolio; our ability to sell our remaining mortgage loans on favorable terms; the availability of short-term and long-term financing on favorable terms; conditions in the financial, real estate, housing and mortgage markets and the general economic conditions, as to which no assurance can be given. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make investments with attractive risk-adjusted returns or will not seek investments with greater risk to obtain the same level of returns or that the value of our investments in the future will not decline substantially. Existing and future government regulations may result in additional costs or delays, which could adversely affect the implementation of our investment strategy.. We have leveraged our investments and expect to continue to do so, which may materially and adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. To the extent available, we intend to continue to leverage our investments through borrowings, the level of which may vary based on the particular characteristics of our investment portfolio and on market conditions. We have leveraged certain of our investments to date through our repurchase agreements. When we enter into any repurchase agreement, we may sell securities, residential mortgage loans or residential properties to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) and receive cash from the lenders. The lenders are obligated to resell the same assets back to us at the end of the term of the transaction. Because the cash we receive from the lender when we initially sell the assets to the lender is less than the value of those assets, if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same assets back to us, we could incur a loss on the transaction. In addition, repurchase agreements generally allow the counterparties, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions or for other reasons. If such counterparty determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call and require us to either post additional collateral to cover such decrease or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowing. Should this occur, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur losses. In the event we are unable to satisfy a margin call, our counterparty may sell the collateral, which may result in significant losses to us.. Our repurchase and other financing agreements generally require us to comply with various financial covenants, including those relating to tangible net worth, profitability and our ratio of total liabilities to tangible net worth, and to maintain minimum amounts of cash or cash equivalents sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position. We expect any future financing arrangements will have similar provisions. In the event that we are unable to satisfy these requirements, we could be forced to sell additional investments at a loss, which could materially and adversely affect us.. 13. (table of contents). Our repurchase and other financing agreements are complex and require a significant level of oversight by management. In part, this is due to the fact that our single-family residential properties and other assets that collateralize these facilities require specific activities to be performed at specific points in time in order to preserve value. Our inability to comply with the terms and conditions of these agreements could materially and adversely impact us. In addition, our outstanding repurchase and other financing agreements contain, and we expect any future repurchase and other financing agreements will contain, events of default, including payment defaults, substantial margin calls, breaches of financial and other covenants and/or certain representations and warranties, cross-defaults, servicer termination events, guarantor defaults, bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings and other events of default customary for these types of agreements. Because our financing agreements will typically contain cross-default provisions, a default that occurs under any one agreement could allow the lenders under our other agreements to also declare a default. Any losses we incur on our repurchase and other financing agreements could materially and adversely affect us.. We have utilized repurchase agreements, seller financing arrangements, term financing arrangements, loan agreements and securitization transactions to finance our portfolio and may in the future utilize other sources of borrowings, including bank credit facilities, warehouse lines of credit and structured financing arrangements, among others, each of which may have similar risks to repurchase and other financing agreements, including, but not limited to, covenant compliance, events of default, acceleration and margin calls. The percentage of leverage we employ, which could increase substantially in the future, varies depending on assets in our portfolios, our available capital, our ability to obtain and access financing arrangements with lenders and the lenders' and rating agencies' estimate of the stability of our investment portfolio's cash flow. There can be no assurance that new sources of financing will be available to us in the future or that existing sources of financing will continue to be available to us. Our governing documents contain no limitation on the amount of debt we may incur. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the investments acquired. Our debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy the obligations.. We utilize non-recourse long-term financing structures, and such structures expose us to risks that could result in losses to us.. We currently utilize non-recourse long-term financing for certain of our investments and intend to continue to do so if, and to the extent, available. In such structures, our lenders typically have only a claim against the assets collateralizing the debt rather than a general claim against us as an entity, subject to certain exceptions. In addition, long-term financing structures may offer significantly less flexibility to refinance or terminate on cost-effective terms or at all and, as a result, could make it more difficult for us to capitalize on changes in market conditions, including the availability of less expensive debt. In the event we are unable to renew or refinance existing long-term facilities, we may increase our reliance on short-term facilities, which would likely be recourse to us as an entity.. We may also continue to finance our investments with relatively short-term facilities until a sufficient portfolio is accumulated. If we are unable to renew, refinance or obtain new long-term and/or short-term facilities, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or to liquidate assets at an inopportune time or price. In such an event, our overall results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely impacted.. Our inability to make interest and/or principal payments on our financing arrangements obtained in connection with the HOME SFR Transaction and/or the HOME Flow Transaction would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. In connection with the HOME SFR Transaction and the HOME Flow Transaction, certain of our subsidiaries that own the underlying properties (each a \"HOME Borrower\"), borrowed approximately 75% of the aggregate purchase price for each transaction. These loans (the \"HOME SFR Loans\") are each secured by the membership interests in each HOME Borrower and the properties and other assets held by such HOME Borrower. Upon the occurrence of a default of the payment of principal and/or interest on one or more of the HOME SFR Loans, recourse may generally be had against the assets of the applicable HOME Borrower and the membership interests in such HOME Borrower. The primary security and source of payment for the HOME SFR Loans is the cash flows generated by the properties and the other collateral described in the underlying loan agreements (the \"HOME SFR Loan Agreements\"). Since revenues from the properties held by the relevant HOME Borrower generally serve as the primary source for monthly payments due on the corresponding HOME SFR Loan, if revenue from the properties is reduced or if expenses incurred in the operation of the properties increase, the ability of such HOME Borrower to make payments with respect to such HOME SFR Loan may be impaired. Similarly, the HOME SFR Loan Agreements require the applicable HOME Borrower to make a balloon payment at the ultimate maturity date of the corresponding HOME SFR. 14. (table of contents). Loan. The ability of the relevant HOME Borrower to sell and/or refinance the properties and to make the payment on the maturity date or the equity owner of the HOME Borrower (each a \"HOME Equity Owner\"), to sell and/or refinance its equity interest in such HOME Borrower to timely perform its guaranty obligations with respect to such maturity date payment, could be impaired by a decline in the value of the collateral properties. If a HOME Borrower is unable to make payments under the applicable HOME SFR Loan or fails to make payment at maturity, the lender would be able to take possession/title to the membership interests of such HOME Borrower and the properties and other assets of such HOME Borrower to satisfy and discharge the corresponding HOME SFR Loan obligations. In such an event, our overall results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected.. Even though the HOME SFR Loans are non-recourse to us and all of our subsidiaries other than the relevant HOME Equity Owner and HOME Borrower, we have agreed to limited bad act indemnification obligations to the lender for the payment of (i) certain losses arising out of certain bad or wrongful acts of the HOME Equity Owners and HOME Borrowers with respect to the HOME SFR Loans and (ii) a portion of the principal amount of the HOME SFR Loans and certain other obligations under the HOME SFR Loan Agreements in the event we cause certain voluntary bankruptcy events of the applicable HOME Equity Owner or HOME Borrower. Any of such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition.. We may incur significant costs in renovating our properties, and we may underestimate the costs or amount of time necessary to complete restorations.. While a substantial portion of the SFR properties we have acquired to date meet our rental specifications at the time of acquisition, properties frequently require additional renovations prior to renting. Before renting a property, our Property Managers perform a detailed assessment, with an on-site review of the property, to identify the scope of renovation to be completed. Beyond customary repairs, we may instruct our Property Managers to undertake improvements designed to optimize the overall property appeal and increase the value of the property. Though we endeavor to conduct property inspections and due diligence prior to acquiring new SFR portfolios, we expect that nearly all of our rental properties will require some level of renovation immediately upon their acquisition or in the future following expiration of a lease or otherwise. We may acquire properties that we plan to extensively renovate and restore. In addition, in order to reposition properties in the rental market, we will be required to make ongoing capital improvements and may need to perform significant renovations and repairs from time to time. Consequently, we are exposed to the risks inherent in property renovation, including potential cost overruns, increases in labor and materials costs, delays by contractors in completing work, delays in the timing of receiving necessary work permits and certificates of occupancy, poor workmanship and improper oversight by our Property Managers. If our assumptions regarding the cost or timing of renovations across our properties prove to be materially inaccurate, it may be more costly or take significantly more time than anticipated to develop and grow our SFR portfolio, which could materially and adversely affect us.. The availability of portfolios of single-family residential properties for purchase on favorable terms may decline as market conditions change, our industry matures and/or additional purchasers for such portfolios emerge, and the prices for such portfolios may increase, any of which could materially and adversely affect us.. In recent years, there has been an increase in supply of single-family residential property portfolios available for sale. Because we operate in an emerging industry, market conditions may be volatile, and the prices at which portfolios of single-family residential properties can be acquired may increase from time to time, or permanently, due to new market participants seeking such portfolios, a decrease in the supply of desirable portfolios or other adverse changes in the geographic areas that we may target from time to time. For these reasons, the supply of single-family residential properties that we may acquire may decline over time, which could materially and adversely affect us and our growth prospects.. Portfolios of properties that we have acquired or may acquire may include properties that do not fit our investment criteria, and divestiture of such properties may be costly or time consuming or both, which may adversely affect our operating results.. We have acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, portfolios of single-family residential properties, many of which are, or will be, subject to existing leases. To the extent the management and leasing of such properties has not been consistent with our property management and leasing standards, we may be subject to a variety of risks, including risks relating to the condition of the properties, the credit quality and employment stability of the tenants and compliance with applicable laws, among others. In addition, financial and other information provided to us regarding such portfolios during our due diligence may be inaccurate, and we may not be able to obtain relief under contractual remedies, if any. If we conclude that certain properties acquired as part of a portfolio do not fit our investment criteria, we may decide to sell such properties and may be required to renovate the. 15. (table of contents). properties prior to sale, to hold the properties for an extended marketing period and/or sell the property at an unfavorable price, any of which could materially and adversely affect us.. Competition in identifying and acquiring residential rental assets could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which could materially and adversely affect us.. We face competition from various sources for investment opportunities, including REITs, hedge funds, private equity funds, partnerships, developers and others. Some third-party competitors have substantially greater financial resources and access to capital than we do and may be able to accept more risk than we can. Competition from these companies may reduce the number of attractive investment opportunities available to us or increase the bargaining power of asset owners seeking to sell, which would increase the prices of assets. If such events occur, our ability to implement our business strategy could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect us. Given the existing competition, complexity of the market and requisite time needed to make such investments, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in acquiring investments that generate attractive risk-adjusted returns. Furthermore, there is no assurance that such investments, once acquired, will perform as expected.. Failure of ASPS or MSR to effectively perform their obligations under their respective agreements with us could materially and adversely affect us.. We have engaged ASPS and MSR to provide services. If for any reason our Property Managers are unable to perform the services described under these agreements at the level and/or the cost that we anticipate or fail to allocate sufficient resources to meet our needs for additional services under these agreements, qualified alternate service providers may not be readily available on a timely basis, on favorable terms or at all, which would adversely affect our performance. The performance of our SFR portfolio will be affected by management decisions relating to the properties, which in turn may be affected by events or circumstances impacting our Property Managers or their respective affiliates, or the financial condition or results of operations of any of the foregoing. In certain circumstances and subject to the restrictions set forth in the property management agreements between each of our Property Managers and us, our Property Managers have broad discretion with the respect to the management of the properties, including, without limitation, certain renovations, maintenance and certain matters related to leasing, including marketing and selection of tenants. Our Property Managers do not have long-term established track records to demonstrate their successful operation over a significant period of time. It is difficult to evaluate potential future performance of our Property Managers and their ability to continue to perform management services effectively or within our existing cost and expense assumptions without the benefit of such established track records.. Our Property Managers' ability to perform their obligations under the respective property management services agreements will be affected by various factors, including, among other things, their ability to hire sufficient personnel and retain key personnel, the number of our properties that they manage and the volume of properties under management for their other clients. Increases in the number of properties under management by our Property Managers that we may purchase or that the Property Managers themselves manage away from us may require them to hire additional qualified personnel. No assurance can be made that either of the Property Managers will be successful in attracting and retaining skilled personnel or in integrating any new personnel into their respective organizations and into the respective property management structures for our acquired properties. Moreover, as the size of our Property Managers' respective property management portfolios increases, the resources dedicated to us could decrease or require our Property Managers' personnel to focus on clients other than us. Such a decrease in productivity may adversely affect the management of our properties.. Our Property Managers' failure to perform the services under their respective property management agreements or our inability to retain qualified alternate service providers to replace and/or supplement them could result in a material adverse effect on us.. Termination of a Property Manager could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In certain limited circumstances, we are permitted or required to terminate a Property Manager in connection with their management of all or a portion of the SFR portfolio that they currently manage. There is a high risk of a disruption in operations and possible lapse in quality should the applicable portfolio of properties experience a change in operators or key leadership personnel, particularly in the transition period immediately following such changes. There is no assurance that one or more adequate replacement property managers capable of managing the relevant portfolio of SFR properties would be available and willing to assume the existing Property Manager's duties upon terms (including the compensation) that are the same or more favorable than those set forth in the existing property management agreement with the relevant Property Manager. Even if one or more replacement property managers were engaged, there is no assurance that such replacement. 16. (table of contents). managers individually or collectively would be able to perform management services adequately or within existing cost and expense assumptions.. If any of these foregoing risks materialize, this would have a material adverse effect on the performance of our SFR portfolio or could cause a default of our obligations under one or more financing agreements, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would therefore be materially harmed.. We may be materially and adversely affected by risks affecting the single-family rental properties in which our investments may be concentrated at any given time as well as from unfavorable changes in the related geographic regions.. Our assets are not subject to any geographic diversification requirements or concentration limitations, and, as a result, circumstances or events that impact a geographic region in which we have a significant concentration of properties, including a downturn in regional economic conditions or natural disasters, could materially and adversely affect us. Entities that sell residential rental portfolios may group the portfolios by location or other metrics that could result in a concentration of our portfolio by geography, SFR property characteristics and/or tenant demographics. Such concentration could increase the risk of loss to us if the particular concentration in our portfolio is subject to greater risks or undergoing adverse developments. In addition, adverse conditions in the areas where our properties or tenants are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics, oversupply, reduced demand and other factors) may have an adverse effect on the value of our investments. A material decline in the demand for single-family housing or rentals in the areas where we own assets may materially and adversely affect us. Lack of diversification can increase the correlation of non-performance and foreclosure risks among our investments.. Short-term leases of residential property expose us more quickly to the effects of declining market rents.. We anticipate that a majority of our leases to tenants of SFR properties will be for a term of one to two years. As these leases permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, we anticipate our rental revenues will be affected by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. Short-term leases may result in high turnover, resulting in additional cost to renovate and maintain the property and lower occupancy levels. Because we have a limited operating history, our tenant turnover rate and related cost estimates may be less accurate than if we had more operating data upon which to base these estimates.. We may be unable to secure funds for property restoration or other capital improvements, which could limit our ability to attract, retain or replace tenants.. When we acquire or otherwise take title to single-family properties or when tenants fail to renew their leases or otherwise vacate their space, we will be required to expend funds for property restoration and leasing commissions in order to lease the property. If we have not established reserves or set aside sufficient funds for such expenditures, we may have to obtain financing from other sources, as to which no assurance can be given. We may also have future financing needs for other capital improvements to restore our properties. If we need to secure financing for capital improvements in the future but are unable to secure such financing on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable or unwilling to make capital improvements or may choose to defer such improvements. If this happens, our properties may suffer from a greater risk of obsolescence or decreased marketability, a decline in value or decreased cash flow as a result of fewer potential tenants being attracted to the property or existing tenants not renewing their leases. If we do not have access to sufficient funding in the future, we may not be able to make necessary capital improvements to our properties, and our properties' ability to generate revenue may be significantly impaired.. Our revenue and expenses are not directly correlated, and, because a large percentage of our costs and expenses are fixed and some variable expenses may not decrease over time, we may not be able to adapt our cost structure to offset any declines in our revenue.. Many of the expenses associated with our business, such as acquisition costs, restoration and maintenance costs, HOA fees, personal and real property taxes, insurance, compensation and other general expenses are fixed and would not necessarily decrease proportionally with any decrease in revenue. Our assets also will likely require a significant amount of ongoing capital expenditure. Our expenses, including capital expenditures, will be affected by, among other things, any inflationary increases, and cost increases may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period. Certain expenses, such as HOA fees, taxes, insurance and maintenance costs are recurring in nature and may not decrease on a per-unit basis as our portfolio grows through additional property acquisitions. By contrast, our revenue is affected by many factors beyond our control, such as the availability and price of alternative rental housing and economic conditions in our markets. As a result, we may not be able to. 17. (table of contents). fully, or even partially, offset any increase in our expenses with a corresponding increase in our revenues. In addition, state and local regulations may require us to maintain our properties, even if the cost of maintenance is greater than the potential benefit.. Competition could limit our ability to lease single-family rental properties or increase or maintain rents.. Our SFR properties, when acquired, will compete with other housing alternatives to attract residents, including rental apartments, condominiums and other single-family homes available for rent as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Our competitors' SFR properties may be of better quality, in a more desirable location or have leasing terms more favorable than we can provide. In addition, our ability to compete and generate favorable returns depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, the financial condition and liquidity of current and prospective renters, availability and cost of capital, taxes and governmental regulations. Given significant competition, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in acquiring or managing SFR properties that generate favorable returns.. If rents in our markets do not increase sufficiently to keep pace with potential rising costs of operations, our operating results and cash available for distribution will decline.. The success of our business model will substantially depend on conditions in the SFR property market in our geographic markets. Our asset acquisitions are premised on assumptions about, among other things, occupancy and rent levels. If those assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our operating results and cash available for distribution will be lower than expected, potentially materially. Rental rates and occupancy levels have benefited in recent periods from macroeconomic trends affecting the U.S. economy and residential real estate and mortgage markets in particular, including the following:. • a tightening of credit that has made it more difficult to finance a home purchase, combined with efforts by consumers generally to reduce their exposure to credit;. • economic and employment conditions that have increased foreclosure rates; and. • reduced real estate values that challenged the traditional notion that homeownership is a stable investment.. A decrease in rental rates would have a material adverse effect on the performance of our SFR portfolio or could cause a default of our obligations under one or more financing agreements, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would therefore be materially harmed.. If the current trend favoring renting rather than homeownership reverses, the single-family rental market could decline.. The SFR market is currently significantly larger than in historical periods. We do not expect the favorable trends in the SFR market to continue indefinitely. Eventually, continued strengthening of the U.S. economy and job growth, together with the large supply of foreclosed single-family residential properties, the current availability of low residential mortgage rates and government sponsored programs promoting home ownership, may contribute to a stabilization or reversal of the current trend that favors renting rather than homeownership. In addition, we expect that as investors increasingly seek to capitalize on opportunities to purchase undervalued housing properties and convert them to productive uses, the supply of SFR properties will decrease and the competition for tenants will intensify. A softening of the rental property market in our markets would adversely affect our operating results and cash available for distribution, potentially materially.. Suboptimal tenant underwriting and defaults by our tenants may materially and adversely affect us.. Our success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified tenants for our properties. This will depend, in turn, upon our ability to screen applicants, identify good tenants and avoid tenants who may default. We will inevitably make mistakes in our selection of tenants, and we may rent to tenants whose default on our leases or failure to comply with the terms of the lease or HOA regulations could materially and adversely affect us. For example, tenants may default on payment of rent; make unreasonable and repeated demands for service or improvements; make unsupported or unjustified complaints to regulatory or political authorities; make use of our properties for illegal purposes; damage or make unauthorized structural changes to our properties that may not be fully covered by security deposits; refuse to leave the property when the lease is terminated; engage in domestic violence or similar disturbances; disturb nearby residents with noise, trash, odors or eyesores; fail to comply with HOA regulations; sub-let to less desirable individuals in violation of our leases or permit unauthorized persons to live with them. The process of evicting a defaulting tenant from a family residence can be adversarial, protracted and costly. Furthermore, some tenants facing eviction may damage or destroy the property. Damage to our properties may significantly delay re-leasing after eviction, necessitate expensive repairs, reduce the rental revenue generated by the property or impair its value. In addition, we will incur turnover costs associated with re-leasing the properties, such as marketing expenses and brokerage commissions, and will not collect revenue while the property is vacant. Although we will attempt to work with tenants to prevent such damage or destruction, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in all. 18. (table of contents). or most cases. Such tenants will not only cause us not to achieve our financial objectives for the properties in which they live, but may subject us to liability and may damage our reputation with our other tenants and in the communities where we do business.. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could have a material adverse effect on us.. We carry commercial general liability insurance and property insurance with respect to our SFR properties on terms we consider commercially reasonable. However, many of the policies covering casualty losses are subject to substantial deductibles and exclusions, and we will be self-insured up to the amount of the deductibles and exclusions. For example, we may not always be fully insured against losses arising from floods, windstorms, fires, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism or civil unrest because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it economically impractical. If an uninsured property loss or a property loss in excess of insured limits were to occur, we could lose our capital invested in a property or group of properties as well as the anticipated future revenues from affected SFR properties or groups of properties. Further, inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also prevent us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a property after it has been damaged or destroyed.. In the event that we incur a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by the amount of any such uninsured loss, and we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and potential revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. Further, if an uninsured liability to a third party were to occur, we would incur the cost of defense and settlement with or court ordered damages to that third party. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, cash flows and ability to make distributions on our common stock.. A significant number of our SFR properties and non-rental REO properties may be part of homeowners' associations. We and our renters will be subject to the rules and regulations of such homeowners' associations, which may be arbitrary or restrictive, and violations of such rules may subject us to additional fees and penalties and litigation, which may be costly.. A significant number of our SFR properties and non-rental REO properties may be subject to HOAs, which are private entities that regulate the activities of and levy assessments on properties in a residential subdivision. Some of the HOAs that will govern our SFR and REO properties may enact onerous or arbitrary rules that restrict our ability to renovate, market or lease our SFR properties or require us to renovate or maintain such properties at standards or costs that are in excess of our planned operating budgets. Such rules may include requirements for landscaping, limitations on signage promoting a property for lease or sale or the use of specific construction materials to be used in renovations. Some HOAs also impose limits on the number of property owners who may rent their homes, which, if met or exceeded, may cause us to incur additional costs to sell the affected property and opportunity costs of lost rental income. Furthermore, many HOAs impose restrictions on the conduct of occupants of homes and the use of common areas, and we may have renters who violate these HOA rules for which we may be liable as the property owner. Additionally, the boards of directors of the HOAs that will govern our SFR and REO properties may not make important disclosures or may block our access to HOA records, initiate litigation, restrict our ability to sell, impose assessments or arbitrarily change the HOA rules. We may be unaware of or unable to review or comply with certain HOA rules before acquiring an SFR or REO property, and any such excessively restrictive or arbitrary regulations may cause us to sell such property (if possible), prevent us from renting such property or otherwise reduce our cash flow from such property. Any of the above-described occurrences may materially and adversely affect us.. We rely on information supplied by prospective tenants in managing our business.. We rely on information supplied to us by prospective tenants in their rental applications as part of our due diligence process to make leasing decisions, and we cannot be certain that this information is accurate. In particular, we rely on information submitted by prospective tenants regarding household income, tenure at current job, number of children and size of household. Moreover, these applications are submitted to us at the time we evaluate a prospective tenant, and we do not require tenants to provide us with updated information during the terms of their leases, notwithstanding the fact that this information can, and frequently does, change over time. Even though this information is not updated, we will use it to evaluate the overall average credit characteristics of our portfolio over time. If tenant-supplied information is inaccurate or our tenants' creditworthiness declines over time, we may make poor leasing decisions, and our portfolio may contain more credit risk than we believe.. Failure of our third party mortgage servicers to effectively perform their servicing obligations under our servicing agreements could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are contractually obligated to service our remaining residential mortgage loans. We do not have any employees, servicing platforms, licenses or technical resources necessary to service our mortgage loans. Consequently, we have engaged mortgage. 19. (table of contents). servicers to service the mortgage loans in our portfolio. If for any reason, our mortgage servicers are unable to service these loans at the level and/or the cost that we anticipate, or if we fail to pay or otherwise default under the servicing agreements and our mortgage servicers cease to act as our servicers, alternate servicers may not be readily available on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Difficulties in selling REO properties could limit our flexibility and/or harm our liquidity.. Federal tax laws may limit our ability to earn a gain on the sale of our properties if we are found to have held or acquired the properties with the intent to resell, and this limitation may adversely affect our willingness to sell REO properties under favorable conditions or if necessary for funding purposes. We typically contribute REO properties that will not meet our rental profile to our taxable REIT subsidiary in order to sell and generate gains or losses at the taxable REIT subsidiary upon such sales. In addition, our REO properties that we intend to sell may at times be difficult to dispose of quickly or at favorable prices. These potential difficulties in selling real estate in our markets may limit our ability to either sell properties that we deem unsuitable for rental or change or reduce the REO properties in our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Our failure to sell or delays in selling our REO properties could potentially cause a strain on our liquidity, and we may be forced to reduce prices and/or continue to hold such REO properties without leverage, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition.. The growth of our SFR portfolio, at least in the short term, is expected to be partially dependent on our ability to sell non-rental REO properties. If we are unable to sell these assets at optimal prices or on a timely basis, or if the market shifts, creating lower sales prices, our ability to utilize the equity embedded in these assets would be harmed, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to convert the proceeds of such sales into buying power for the acquisition of SFR properties. Furthermore, a large portion of the sale proceeds of such non-rental REOs are utilized to purchase the assets off of our repurchase and loan facilities for which the assets are collateral. If a higher than expected portion of the sale consideration must be utilized to repurchase assets off of our facilities, our ability to purchase SFR properties may also be adversely affected, which would slow the growth of our rental portfolio.. Our SFR and REO properties are not liquid assets, which could limit our ability to vary our portfolio or to realize the value at which such assets are carried if we are required to dispose of them.. Our SFR and REO properties are not liquid assets, which could limit our ability to vary our portfolio or to realize the value at which such assets are carried if we are required to dispose of them. Our inability to sell individual or portfolios of SFR and/or REO properties on acceptable terms and/or in accordance with our anticipated timing could materially and adversely affect our financial condition.. Our inability to promptly foreclose upon defaulted residential mortgage loans could increase our costs and/or diminish our expected return on investments.. Our ability to seek alternative resolutions for the underlying properties and, in certain cases, where appropriate, promptly foreclose upon defaulted residential mortgage loans plays a critical role in our valuation of the residential mortgage assets in which we have invested and our expected return on those investments. Certain of the mortgage loans in our portfolio may already be in foreclosure proceedings, in which case conversion could be as soon as three to six months, but in other cases conversion could take up to 24 months or longer. There are a variety of factors that may inhibit our ability, through our mortgage servicers, to foreclose upon a residential mortgage loan and get access to the real property within the timelines modeled as part of our valuation process. These factors include, without limitation: state foreclosure timelines and deferrals associated therewith (including with respect to litigation, bankruptcy and statute of limitations); unauthorized occupants living in the property; federal, state or local legislative action or initiatives designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures and that serve to delay the foreclosure process; HAMP and similar programs that require specific procedures to be followed to explore the refinancing of a residential mortgage loan prior to the commencement of a foreclosure proceeding; declines in real estate values and sustained high levels of unemployment that increase the number of foreclosures and place additional pressure on the judicial and administrative systems.. In addition, certain issues, including \"robo-signing,\" have been identified throughout the mortgage industry that relate to affidavits used in connection with the residential mortgage loan foreclosure process. A portion of our investments are sub-performing and non-performing residential mortgage loans, many of which are already subject to foreclosure proceedings. There can be no assurance that similar practices have not been followed in connection with residential mortgage loans that are already subject to foreclosure proceedings at the time of purchase. To the extent we determine that any of the loans in our portfolio are impacted by these issues, we may be required to recommence the foreclosure proceedings relating to such loans, thereby resulting in additional delay that could have the effect of increasing our costs and/or diminishing our expected return on. 20. (table of contents). our investments. The uncertainty surrounding these issues could also result in legal, regulatory or industry changes to the foreclosure process as a whole, any or all of which could lengthen the foreclosure process and negatively impact our business.. Fair values of our mortgage loans may not be precise and may materially and adversely affect our operating results, which, in turn, would materially and adversely affect us.. The values of our remaining mortgage loans may not be precisely determinable. We measure the fair value of our mortgage loans monthly, but the fair value at which our mortgage loans are recorded may not be an indication of their realizable value. Ultimate realization of the value of a mortgage loan depends to a great extent on economic and other conditions that are beyond our control. Further, our fair value determination is only an estimate based on a number of factors incorporated into our mortgage loan valuation model and requires judgment of the price at which a mortgage loan can be sold since market prices of mortgage loans can only be determined by negotiation between a willing buyer and seller. In certain cases, our assessment of the fair value of our mortgage loans includes inputs provided by third-party dealers and pricing services, and valuations of certain securities or other assets in which we invest are often difficult to obtain and are subject to judgments that may vary among market participants. Changes in the estimated fair values of our mortgage loans are directly charged or credited to earnings for the period. If we were to liquidate a particular mortgage loan, the realized value may be more than or less than the amount at which such mortgage loan was recorded. We could be materially and adversely affected by negative determinations that reduce the fair value of our mortgage loans, and such valuations may fluctuate over short periods of time.. We value the properties underlying our mortgage loans and recognize unrealized gains in each period when our mortgage loans are transferred to real estate owned. The fair value of our residential properties is estimated using broker price opinions (\"BPOs\") provided by third-party brokers. BPOs are subject to the judgments of the particular broker formed by visiting the property, assessing general home values in the area, reviewing comparable listings and reviewing comparable completed sales. These judgments may vary among brokers and may fluctuate over time based on housing market activities and the influx of additional comparable listings and sales. Our results could be materially and adversely affected if the judgments used by the brokers prove to be incorrect or inaccurate.. AAMC utilizes analytical models and data in connection with the valuation of our investments, and any incorrect, misleading or incomplete information used in connection therewith would subject us to potential risks.. AAMC relies heavily on models and data, including analytical models (both proprietary models developed by AAMC and those supplied by third parties) and information and data supplied by third parties. Models and data are used to value our assets or potential investments and also in connection with performing due diligence on our investments. In the event models and data prove to be incorrect, misleading or incomplete, any decisions made in reliance thereon expose us to potential risks. For example, by relying on incorrect models and data, especially valuation models, we may be induced to buy certain investments at prices that are too high, to sell certain other investments at prices that are too low or to miss favorable opportunities altogether.. An unidentified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements.. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. If material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls are discovered in the future, we could be required to restate our financial results or experience a decline in the price of our securities.. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives as specified above. Management does not expect, however, that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected.. 21. (table of contents). Changes in global economic and capital market conditions, including periods of generally deteriorating occupancy and real estate industry fundamentals, may materially and adversely affect us.. There are risks to the ownership of real estate and real estate related assets, including decreases in residential property values, changes in global, national, regional or local economic, demographic and real estate market conditions as well as other factors particular to the locations of our investments. A prolonged recession and a slow recovery could materially and adversely affect us as a result of, among other items, the following:. • joblessness or unemployment rates that adversely affect the local economy;. • an oversupply of or a reduced demand for SFR properties for rent;. • a decline in employment or lack of employment growth;. • the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases or fulfill their lease obligations;. • a decline in rental rate, which may be accentuated since we expect to generally have rent terms of one to two years;. • rent control or rent stabilization laws or other laws regulating housing that could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs;. • changes in interest rates and availability and terms of debt financing; and. • economic conditions that could cause an increase in our operating expenses such as increases in property taxes, utilities and routine maintenance.. These conditions could also adversely impact the financial condition and liquidity of the renters that will occupy our real estate properties and, as a result, their ability to pay rent to us.. Inflation or deflation may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Increased inflation could have an adverse impact on interest rates, property management expenses and general and administrative expenses as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rental and other revenue. Conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income without an accompanying reduction in our expenses. Accordingly, inflation or deflation may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Changes in applicable laws or noncompliance with applicable law could materially and adversely affect us.. As an owner of real estate, we are required to comply with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with one another or be subject to limited judicial or regulatory interpretations. These laws and regulations may include zoning laws, building codes, landlord-tenant laws and other laws generally applicable to our business operations. Noncompliance with laws or regulations could expose us to liability.. Lower revenue growth or significant unanticipated expenditures may result from our need to comply with changes in (i) laws imposing remediation requirements and potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws or other residential landlord-tenant laws or (iii) other governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the rehabilitation, use and operation of our SFR properties, including changes to building codes and fire and life-safety codes.. Single-family residential properties that are subject to foreclosure or short-sales are subject to risks of theft, vandalism or other damage that could impair their value.. When a residential property is subject to foreclosure, it is possible that the homeowner may cease to maintain the property adequately or that the property may be abandoned by the homeowner and become susceptible to theft or vandalism. Lack of maintenance, theft and vandalism can substantially impair the value of the property. To the extent we initiate foreclosure proceedings, some of our properties could be impaired.. 22. (table of contents). Contingent or unknown liabilities could materially and adversely affect us.. Our acquisition activities are subject to many risks. We may acquire properties that are subject to unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for or with respect to liens attached to properties, unpaid real estate taxes, utilities or HOA charges for which a prior owner remains liable, clean-up or remediation of environmental conditions or code violations, claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the acquired properties and tax liabilities, among other things. In each case, our acquisition may be without any, or with only limited, recourse with respect to unknown or contingent liabilities or conditions. As a result, if any such liability were to arise relating to our properties, or if any adverse condition exists with respect to our properties that is in excess of our insurance coverage, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or cure it, which could materially and adversely affect us. The properties we acquire may also be subject to covenants, conditions or restrictions that restrict the use or ownership of such properties, including prohibitions on leasing or requirements to obtain the approval of HOAs prior to leasing. We may not discover such restrictions during the acquisition process, and such restrictions may adversely affect our ability to operate such properties as we intend.. The costs and amount of time necessary to secure possession and control of certain properties may exceed our assumptions, which would delay our receipt of revenue from, and return on, the property.. A majority of the SFR properties we have acquired have had an existing tenant at the time of acquisition. However, certain SFR and non-rental REO properties require us to secure possession. In certain circumstances, we may have to evict occupants who are in unlawful possession before we can secure possession and control of the property. The holdover occupants may be the former owners or tenants of a property, or they may be squatters or others who are illegally in possession. Securing control and possession from these occupants can be both costly and time consuming. If these costs and delays exceed our expectations, our financial performance may suffer because of the increased expenses incurred or the unexpected delays in turning the properties into revenue-producing rental properties.. Eminent domain could lead to material losses on our investments.. It is possible that governmental authorities may exercise eminent domain to acquire land on which our properties are built in order to build roads or other infrastructure. Any such exercise of eminent domain would allow us to recover only the fair value of the affected properties, which we believe may be interpreted to be substantially less than the actual value of the property. Several cities are also exploring proposals to use eminent domain to acquire residential loans to assist borrowers to remain in their homes, potentially reducing the supply of single-family properties for sale in our markets. Any of these events can cause a material loss to us.. We are subject to the risks of securities laws liability and related civil litigation.. We may be subject to risk of securities litigation and derivative actions from time to time as a result of being publicly traded, including the sole remaining unresolved action set forth in \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\" There can be no assurance that any settlement or liabilities in such action or any future lawsuits or claims against us would be covered or partially covered by our insurance policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings in one or more periods. While we and our Board of Directors deny the allegations of wrongdoing against us in the remaining unresolved action initiated against us, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome or timing of its resolution. The range of possible resolutions could include determinations and judgments against us or settlements that could require substantial payments by us, including the costs of defending such suit, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An adverse resolution of any future lawsuits or claims against us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results.. We likely will incur costs due to litigation, including but not limited to, class actions, tenant rights claims and consumer demands.. There are numerous tenants' rights and consumer rights organizations throughout the country. As we grow in scale, we may attract attention from some of these organizations and become a target of legal demands or litigation. Many such consumer organizations have become more active and better funded in connection with mortgage foreclosure-related issues and displaced home ownership. Some of these organizations may shift their litigation, lobbying, fundraising and grass roots organizing activities to focus on landlord-tenant issues as more entities engage in the SFR property market. Additional actions that may be targeted at us include eviction proceedings and other landlord-tenant disputes, challenges to title and ownership rights (including actions brought by prior owners alleging wrongful foreclosure by their lender or servicer) and issues with local housing officials arising from the condition or maintenance of an SFR property. While we intend to conduct our rental business lawfully and in compliance with applicable landlord-tenant and consumer laws, such organizations might work in conjunction. 23. (table of contents). with trial and pro bono lawyers in one state or multiple states to attempt to bring claims against us on a class action basis for damages or injunctive relief. We cannot anticipate what form such legal actions might take or what remedies they may seek. Any of such claims may result in a finding of liability that may materially and adversely affect us.. Additionally, these organizations may lobby local county and municipal attorneys or state attorneys general to pursue enforcement or litigation against us or may lobby state and local legislatures to pass new laws and regulations to constrain our business operations. If they are successful in any such endeavors, they could directly limit and constrain our business operations and impose on us significant litigation expenses, including settlements to avoid continued litigation or judgments for damages or injunctions. Any of the above-described occurrences may materially and adversely affect us.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we, through AAMC, our Property Managers or our mortgage servicers, may acquire and store sensitive data on our network, such as our proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our prospective and current tenants. The secure processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be subject to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption to our operations and the services we provide to customers or damage our reputation, which could materially and adversely affect us.. We may incur substantial costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance.. Under various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and ordinances, we may be required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at our single-family residential properties (including in some cases, asbestos-containing construction materials, lead-based paints, contaminants migrating from off-site sources and natural substances such as methane, mold and radon gas) and may be held liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for property, personal injury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of the contamination. These damages and costs may be substantial and may exceed any insurance coverage we may have for such events, which could materially and adversely affect us. The presence of such substances or the failure to properly remediate the contamination may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected property. In addition, some environmental laws create or allow a government agency to impose a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of the contamination, which may also adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected property.. Our properties will be subject to property and other taxes that may increase over time.. We will be responsible for property taxes for our single-family residential properties when acquired, which may increase as tax rates change and properties are reassessed by taxing authorities. If we fail to pay any such taxes, the applicable taxing authorities may place a lien on the property, and the property may be subject to a tax sale. Increases in property taxes would also adversely affect our yield from rental properties. Any such occurrence may materially and adversely affect us.. Our concentrations of credit risk could have a material adverse effect on us.. We maintain our cash and cash equivalent investments and our restricted cash at financial or other intermediary institutions. The combined account balances at each institution typically exceed FDIC insurance coverage of $250,000 per depositor and, as a result, there is a concentration of credit risk related to amounts on deposit in excess of FDIC insurance coverage. At December 31, 2017, substantially all of our cash and cash equivalent balances held at financial institutions exceeded FDIC insured limits. Any event that would cause the insolvency of a financial institution at which we hold a material portion of our cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash in excess of amounts subject to FDIC deposit insurance would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of shareholder activism, which could cause us to incur significant expense, hinder execution of our business strategy and impact the trading value of our securities.. Activist shareholders are currently publicly advocating for certain governance and strategic changes at our company, and there is no assurance that such efforts will not be successful or that we will not be subject to additional shareholder activity or. 24. (table of contents). demands in the future. Shareholder activism, including potential proxy contests, requires significant time and attention by management and the Board of Directors, potentially interfering with our ability to execute our strategic plan. Additionally, such shareholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and adversely affect our relationships with key business partners. Also, we may be required to incur significant legal fees and other expenses related to activist shareholder matters. Any of these impacts could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Further, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by the events, risks and uncertainties described above.. Risks Related to Our Management and Our Relationships. We could have conflicts with AAMC, and our Directors or management could have conflicts of interest due to their relationship with AAMC, any of which may be resolved in a manner adverse to us.. We have engaged, and expect to continue to engage, in a substantial amount of business with AAMC. Conflicts may arise between AAMC and us because of our ongoing agreement with AAMC and because of the nature of our respective businesses.. Each of our executive officers is also an executive officer of AAMC and has interests in our relationship with AAMC that may be different than the interests of our stockholders. As a result, they may have obligations to us and AAMC and could have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and AAMC. In particular, these individuals have a direct interest in the financial success of AAMC that may encourage these individuals to support strategies in furtherance of the financial success of AAMC that could potentially adversely impact us.. We follow policies, procedures and practices to avoid potential conflicts with respect to our dealings with AAMC, including, where necessary, certain of our officers recusing themselves from discussions on, and approvals of, transactions with AAMC. We also manage potential conflicts of interest through oversight by independent members of our Board of Directors (all but one of our directors are independent directors), and we will seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with AAMC. Although we continue to seek ways to lessen many of these conflicts of interest, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective, that we will be able to resolve all conflicts with AAMC or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with a third party that had none of the connections we have with AAMC.. Our Board of Directors has approved a very broad investment policy and guidelines for AAMC and will not review or approve each investment decision. We may change our investment policy and guidelines without stockholder consent, which may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. AAMC is authorized to follow a very broad investment policy and, therefore, has great latitude in determining the types of assets that are proper investments for us as well as the individual investment decisions. Although our Investment Committee provides oversight of AAMC's investments made our behalf, AAMC may make investments with lower rates of return than those anticipated under current market conditions and/or may make investments with greater risks to achieve those anticipated returns. Our Board of Directors will periodically review our investment policy and our investment portfolio but will not typically review or approve each proposed investment by AAMC unless it falls outside the scope of our previously approved investment policy or constitutes a related party transaction. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Directors will rely primarily on information provided to it by AAMC. Furthermore, AAMC may use complex strategies, and transactions entered into by AAMC may be costly, difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our Board of Directors. In addition, we may change our investment policy and targeted asset classes at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different in type from, and possibly riskier than, our current investments or the investments currently contemplated. Changes in our investment policy and targeted asset classes may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, counterparty risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, which could materially and adversely affect us.. 25. (table of contents). We depend on AAMC as our Manager. We may not be able to retain our exclusive engagement of AAMC under certain circumstances, which could materially and adversely affect us. Termination of AAMC by us without cause is difficult and costly, and our agreements with ASPS may simultaneously terminate or be terminated, as applicable.. Our success is dependent upon our relationships with and the performance of AAMC and its key personnel. Key personnel may leave AAMC, may become distracted by adverse financial or operational issues in connection with AAMC's business and other activities or may fail to perform for any reason. AAMC has agreed not to provide the same or substantially similar services to any other party so long as we have on hand an average of $50 million in capital available for investment over the previous two fiscal quarters. Notwithstanding the foregoing, AAMC may engage in any other business or render similar or different services to others, including, without limitation, the direct or indirect sponsorship or management of other investment-based accounts or commingled pools of capital, however structured, having an investment strategy similar to ours, so long as its services to us are not impaired thereby. In the event AAMC provides its services to a competitor, it may be difficult for us to secure a suitable replacement to AAMC on favorable terms or at all or maintain our engagement of AAMC. In the event that the asset management agreement is terminated for any reason or AAMC is unable to retain its key personnel, it may also be difficult for us to secure a suitable replacement to AAMC on favorable terms or at all. We are unable to terminate the AMA prior to the end of the initial term, or each renewal term, other than termination (a) by us and/or AAMC \"for cause\" for certain events such as a material breach of the AMA and failure to cure such breach, (b) by us for certain other reasons such as our failure to achieve a return on invested capital of at least 7.0% for two consecutive fiscal years after the third anniversary of the AMA and (c) by us in connection with certain change of control events. In the event we terminate the AMA without cause or AAMC terminates the AMA due to our default in the performance of any material term of the AMA, we may be required to pay a significant termination fee equal to three times the average annual incentive management fee earned by AAMC during the prior 24-month period immediately preceding the date of termination. Furthermore, if the AMA expires or is earlier terminated, the ASPS support agreement automatically terminates; and if the AMA is terminated without cause, then ASPS has the right to terminate its master services agreement with us. The occurrence of any of the above described events could materially and adversely affect us.. Our Directors have the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as ours.. Our Directors may have other investments and business activities in addition to their interest in, and responsibilities to, us. Under the provisions of our Charter and our bylaws (the \"Bylaws\"), our Directors have no duty to abstain from exercising the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as ours or employ or otherwise engage any of the other Directors. If any of our Directors who are also directors, officers or employees of any other company acquires knowledge of a corporate opportunity or is offered a corporate opportunity outside of his capacity as one of our Directors, then our Bylaws provide that such Director will be permitted to pursue that corporate opportunity independently of us, so long as the Director has acted in good faith. Our Bylaws provide that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, such a Director will be deemed to have satisfied his fiduciary duties to us and will not be liable to us for pursuing such a corporate opportunity independently of us. This may create conflicts of interest between us and certain of our Directors and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our stockholders. As of this date, none of our Directors is directly involved as a director, officer or employee of a business that competes with us, but there can be no assurance that will remain unchanged in the future.. Risks Related to Our Qualification as a REIT. Failure to qualify as a REIT would materially and adversely affect us.. We made an election to be treated as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes beginning with the year ended December 31, 2013. However, we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT. Moreover, our qualification and taxation as a REIT will depend upon our ability to meet on a continuing basis, through actual operating results, certain qualification tests set forth in the federal income tax laws. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that our actual results of operations for any particular taxable year will satisfy such requirements. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders because:. • We would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income, thus becoming subject to federal income tax;. • We could be subject to increased state and local taxes; and. • Unless we are entitled to relief under certain federal income tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will no longer be required to make distributions.. 26. (table of contents). As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and it could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock.. Our tax position with respect to the accrual of interest and market discount income with respect to distressed mortgage loans involves risk.. We have not accrued interest income or market discount on defaulted or delinquent loans when certain criteria are satisfied. The criteria generally relate to whether those amounts are uncollectible or of doubtful collectability. If the Internal Revenue Service were to challenge this position successfully, we could be subject to entity level excise tax as a result of \"deficiency dividends\" that we may be required to pay to our stockholders at the time of such an adjustment to our income in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT.. Compliance with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities, which may hinder or delay our ability to meet our investment objectives and reduce your overall return.. To qualify as a REIT, we are required at all times to satisfy certain tests relating to, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, our financing, hedging and investment strategies, the ownership of our stock and amounts we distribute to our stockholders. Compliance with the REIT requirements may preclude us from certain financing or hedging strategies or cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities which may hinder or delay our ability to meet our investment objectives and reduce your overall return. For example, we may be required to pay distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution.. Compliance with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, which could materially adversely affect us.. To qualify as a REIT, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of our assets must consist of qualified real estate assets, cash, cash items and government securities. In addition, beginning in 2018, no more than 20% of the value of our assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. Except for securities that qualify for purposes of the 75% asset test above and investments in our qualified REIT subsidiaries and our taxable REIT subsidiaries, our investment in the value of any one issuer's securities may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets, and we may not own more than 10% of the total vote or value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer, except, in the case of the 10% value test, certain \"straight debt\" securities. In order to satisfy these requirements, we may be forced to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, potentially at a loss, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to federal corporate income tax.. We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In order to qualify as a REIT, we generally are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, each year to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code.. The IRS may deem the gains from sales of our properties to be subject to a 100% prohibited transaction tax.. From time to time, we may be forced to sell properties that do not meet our investment objectives or we may need to sell properties or other assets either because they do not meet our rental portfolio objectives or to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements. In general, REITs do not sell residential assets out of the REIT so they are not determined to be a \"dealer.\" If we were to purchase real estate assets with a view toward re-selling them, we could be considered a \"dealer\" of real estate, which could cause us to fail to meet our REIT requirements or such sales could be considered \"prohibited transactions.\" Because we have historically purchased large portfolios of mortgage loans with a view toward converting them into rental homes, there may be assets that we have purchased as part of all-or none portfolios that are not acceptable for our portfolio and necessary to sell. Typically, we contribute REO properties that we determine will not meet our rental portfolio criteria to our taxable REIT subsidiary to prevent the sales from being deemed prohibited transactions. The IRS may deem one or more sales of our properties to be \"prohibited transactions.\" If the IRS takes the position that we have engaged in a \"prohibited transaction\" (i.e., if we sell a property held by us primarily for sale in the ordinary course of our trade or business), then any gain we recognize from such sale would not disqualify us as a REIT, but such gains would be subject to a 100% tax. The Code sets forth a safe harbor for REITs that wish to sell property without risking the imposition of the 100% tax; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to qualify for the safe harbor. We do not intend to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business;. 27. (table of contents). however, there is no assurance that our position will not be challenged by the IRS, especially if we make frequent sales or sales of property in which we have short holding periods.. In the future, we could be required to sell assets, borrow funds or raise equity capital to fund our distributions or to make a portion of our distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution.. Our Board of Directors has the sole discretion to determine the timing, form and amount of any distributions to our stockholders, and the amount of such distributions may be limited. In the future, we could be required to sell assets, borrow funds or raise equity capital to fund our distributions or to make a portion of our distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution. Our Board of Directors will make determinations regarding distributions based upon various factors, including our historical and projected financial condition and requirements, liquidity and results of operations, financing covenants, maintenance of our REIT qualification, applicable law and other factors, as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. To the extent that we are required to sell assets in adverse market conditions or borrow funds at unfavorable rates, we could be materially and adversely affected. To the extent we may have to raise equity capital, we may be unable to do so at attractive prices, on a timely basis or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may be subject to tax liabilities that could materially and adversely affect us.. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. In addition, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise tax or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more of the relief provisions under the Code to maintain our qualification as a REIT. In order to meet the REIT qualification requirements or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from sales of \"dealer property,\" we may also move or hold some of our assets or conduct activities through a TRS. In addition, if we lend money to a TRS, the TRS may be unable to deduct all or a portion of the interest paid to us, which could result in an even higher corporate level tax liability. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. Furthermore, the Code imposes a 100% tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's length basis. We will structure our transaction with any TRS on terms that we believe are arm's length to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurances, however, that we will be able to avoid application of the 100% tax. Any such additional tax liabilities would have an adverse effect on us.. Ordinary dividends payable by REITs are generally taxed at U.S. federal income tax rates, higher than tax rates applicable to dividends from Subchapter C corporations.. Effective for tax years beginning in 2018, the maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for \"qualifying dividends\" payable by Subchapter C U.S. corporations to individual U.S. stockholders is 23.8%, including the 3.8% Medicare tax. Beginning in 2018, subject to a number of limitations, individuals receiving ordinary dividends payable by REITs will be eligible for up to a 20% deduction. For those individuals qualifying for the full 20% deduction, the maximum tax rate on such dividends will be 33.4%, including the 3.8% Medicare tax.. We may be subject to legislative or regulatory tax changes that could materially and adversely affect us.. At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective, and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected by any such change in or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation.. The Tax Cuts & Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") was enacted on December 22, 2017 and made significant changes to the Code. Although management is still evaluating the effects of the TCJA, we do not believe that the TCJA will significantly impact our consolidated financial statements.. 28. (table of contents). Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests.. Under Maryland law, generally, a director will not be liable if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in the best interests of the corporation and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our Charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from:. • Actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or. • Active and deliberate dishonesty that is established by a final judgment and is material to the cause of action.. Our Charter and Bylaws provide for indemnification of our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our Bylaws require us to indemnify each director and officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our Charter and Bylaws or that might exist with other companies.. Our Charter may limit or otherwise discourage a takeover or business combination that could otherwise benefit our stockholders.. Our Charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our Board of Directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our Board of Directors, no person may own more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares of common or capital stock. A person that did not acquire more than 9.8% of our outstanding shares of common or capital stock may become subject to our Charter restrictions if repurchases by us cause such person's holdings to exceed 9.8% of our outstanding shares of common or capital stock. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of our Board of Directors will be void or will result in those shares being transferred to a charitable trust, and the person who acquired such excess shares will not be entitled to any distributions thereon or to vote those excess shares. Our 9.8% ownership limitation may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for our stockholders. Our Board of Directors may also, without stockholder approval, amend our Charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of our shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common or preferred stock, and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of additional shares or establish a series of common or preferred stock that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, including transactions at a premium over the market price of our shares, even if stockholders believe that a change in control is in their interest. These provisions, along with the restrictions on ownership and transfer contained in our Charter and certain provisions of Maryland law described below, could discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control, preventing our stockholders from realizing a potential premium over the market price of our stock in a proposed acquisition.. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporate Law (\"MGCL\") may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. Subject to limitations, the \"business combination\" provisions of the MGCL that prohibit certain business combinations (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between us and an \"interested stockholder\" or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. An \"interested stockholder\" is defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting stock within the last two years. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our Board of Directors and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (1) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of our voting stock and (2) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation (excluding the shares held by the interested stockholder or its affiliate the business combination is to be effected). These super-. 29. (table of contents). majority vote requirements do not apply if our common stockholders receive a minimum price, as described under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. These provisions of the MGCL do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by a Board of Directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our Board of Directors has by resolution exempted business combinations between us and any other person. There is no assurance that our Board of Directors will not supersede this resolution in the future.. The \"control share\" provisions of the MGCL provide that \"control shares\" (generally defined as shares that, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) of a Maryland corporation acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the acquisition of ownership or control of \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter (excluding the control shares in question).. Our Bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. The \"unsolicited takeover\" provisions of the MGCL permit our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to implement certain provisions if we have a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent directors (which we have). These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under the circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. Our Charter contains a provision whereby we have elected to be subject to the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL allowing vacancies on our Board of Directors to be filled only by the affirmative vote of the remaining directors in office.. We could be materially and adversely affected if we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act.. We rely on the exception from the Investment Company Act set forth in Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, which excludes from the definition of investment company \"any person who is not engaged in the business of issuing redeemable securities, face-amount certificates of the installment type or periodic payment plan certificates, and who is primarily engaged in one or more of the following businesses… (C) purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.\" The SEC Staff generally requires that, for the exception provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) to be available, at least 55% of an entity's assets be comprised of mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate, also known as \"qualifying interests,\" and at least another 25% of the entity's assets must be comprised of additional qualifying interests or real estate-type interests (with no more than 20% of the entity's assets comprised of miscellaneous assets). Any significant acquisition by us of non-real estate assets without the acquisition of substantial real estate assets could cause us to meet the definitions of an \"investment company.\" If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to register as an investment company if we are unable to dispose of the disqualifying assets, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Registration under the Investment Company Act would require us to comply with a variety of substantive requirements that impose, among other things:. • limitations on capital structure;. • restrictions on specified investments;. • restrictions on leverage or senior securities;. • restrictions on unsecured borrowings;. • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and. • compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses.. If we were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, we could be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. Registration with the SEC as an investment company would be costly, would subject us to a host of complex regulations and would divert attention from the conduct of our business, which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, if we purchase or sell any real estate assets to avoid becoming an investment company under the Investment Company Act, our net asset value, the amount of funds available for investment and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected.. 30. (table of contents). Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control.. The price at which our common stock trades has fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to many things, including but not limited to:. • variations in our actual or anticipated results of operations, liquidity or financial condition;. • the announcement of material transactions or the failure to consummate such transactions;. • changes in, or the failure to meet, our financial estimates or those of securities analysts;. • the amount and timing of any cash distributions;. • actions or announcements by our competitors;. • potential conflicts of interest, or the discontinuance of our strategic relationships, with AAMC, ASPS and MSR;. • actual or anticipated accounting problems;. • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future;. • regulatory actions;. • changes in the market outlook for the real estate, mortgage or housing markets;. • technology changes in our business;. • changes in interest rates that lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a higher yield;. • future equity issuances by us, share resales by our stockholders or the perception that such issuances or resales may occur;. • actions by our stockholders;. • changes to our investment strategy;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • general market, economic and political conditions, including an economic slowdown or dislocation in the global credit markets;. • failure to maintain the listing of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange;. • failure to qualify or maintain our qualification as a REIT;. • failure to maintain our exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act;. • changes in accounting principles;. • passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; and. • departure of AAMC's, and therefore our, key personnel.. The market prices of securities of public REITs have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results or net asset values of these companies. These market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the market price of our common stock.. Furthermore, our small size and different investment characteristics may not continue to appeal to our investor base, and they may seek to dispose of large amounts of our common stock. There is no assurance that there will be sufficient buying interest to offset those sales, and, accordingly, the market price of our common stock could be depressed and/or experience periods of high volatility.. The availability and timing of cash distributions is uncertain.. We are generally required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, each year in order for us to qualify as a REIT under the Code. We currently intend to satisfy this distribution requirement through quarterly cash distributions of all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income each year, subject to certain adjustments. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this Annual Report.. Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, will determine the amount and timing of any distributions. In making such determinations, our Board of Directors will consider all relevant factors, including, without limitation, the amount of cash available for distribution, capital expenditures and general operational requirements. Our Board of Directors will also consider our historical and projected financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, any financing covenants, maintenance of our REIT qualification, applicable law and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. We intend over time to make regular quarterly distributions to holders of our common stock. However, we bear all expenses incurred by our operations, and the funds generated by our operations, after deducting these expenses, may not be sufficient to. 31. (table of contents). cover desired levels of distributions to our stockholders. In addition, our Board of Directors, in its discretion, may retain any portion of such cash in excess of our REIT taxable income for working capital. We cannot assure you how long it may take to generate sufficient available cash flow to fund distributions, nor can we assure you that sufficient cash will be available to make distributions to you. With a limited and evolving operating history, we cannot predict the amount of distributions you may receive, and we may be unable to make, maintain or increase distributions over time. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash distributions to stockholders. Because we may receive rents and income from our properties at various times during our fiscal year, distributions paid may not reflect our income earned in that particular distribution period. The amount of cash available for distribution will be affected by many factors, including, without limitation, the amount of time it takes for us to deploy the net proceeds from equity raises or financing arrangements into our target assets, the amount of income we will earn from those investments, the amount of our operating expenses and many other variables. Actual cash available for distribution may vary substantially from our expectations.. While we intend to fund the payment of quarterly distributions to our stockholders entirely from distributable cash flows, in the future we could be required to sell assets, borrow funds or raise equity to make distributions to our stockholders, which, if not available on favorable terms, or at all, may require us to eliminate or otherwise reduce such distributions or to make a portion of such distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution. In the event we are unable to consistently fund future quarterly distributions to our stockholders entirely from distributable cash flows, the market price of our common stock may be negatively impacted.. The incurrence or issuance of debt, which ranks senior to our common stock upon our liquidation, and future issuances of equity or equity-related securities, which would dilute the holdings of our existing common stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of making distributions, periodically or upon liquidation, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. We have incurred debt and may in the future incur or issue additional debt or issue equity or equity-related securities. Upon our liquidation, lenders and holders of our debt will receive a distribution of our available assets before common stockholders. Any future incurrence or issuance of debt will increase our interest cost and could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We are not required to offer any additional equity securities to existing common stockholders on a preemptive basis. Therefore, additional issuances of common stock, directly or through convertible or exchangeable securities (including limited partnership interests in our operating partnership), warrants or options, will dilute the holdings of our existing common stockholders, and such issuances, or the perception of such issuances, may reduce the market price of our common stock. Our preferred stock, if issued, would likely have a preference on distribution payments, periodically or upon liquidation, which could eliminate or otherwise limit our ability to make distributions to common stockholders. Because our decision to incur or issue debt or issue equity or equity-related securities in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, nature or success of our future capital raising efforts. Thus, common stockholders bear the risk that our future incurrence or issuance of debt or issuance of equity or equity-related securities will adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of our common stock is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may demand a higher distribution rate on shares of our common stock or seek alternative investments paying higher distributions or interest. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can adversely affect the market price of our common stock. For instance, if interest rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of shares of our common stock could decrease because potential investors may require a higher distribution yield on shares of our common stock as market rates on our interest-bearing instruments such as bonds rise. In addition, to the extent we have variable rate debt, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders."
