[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS.. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our operating results, our financial condition, the trading prices of our securities and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our business operations.. Risk Factors Relating to Our Wholesale Operations. The failure to maintain our license agreements could cause us to lose significant revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are dependent on sales of licensed products for a substantial portion of our revenues. In fiscal 2018, net sales of licensed product accounted for 58.6% of our net sales compared to 60.7% of our net sales in fiscal 2017 and 59.2% of our net sales in fiscal 2016.. We are generally required to achieve specified minimum net sales, make specified royalty and advertising payments and receive prior approval of the licensor as to all design and other elements of a product prior to production. License agreements also may restrict our ability to enter into other license agreements for competing products or acquire businesses that produce competing products without the consent of the licensor. If we do not satisfy any of these requirements or receive approval with respect to a restricted transaction, a licensor usually will have the right to terminate our license. Even if a licensor does not terminate our license, the failure to achieve net sales sufficient to cover our required minimum royalty payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If a license contains a renewal provision, there are usually minimum net sales and other conditions that must be met in order to be able to renew a license. Even if we comply with all the terms of a license agreement, we cannot be sure that we will be able to renew an agreement when it expires even if we desire to do so. The failure to maintain or renew our license agreements could cause us to lose significant revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our success is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors.. We strive to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channels and multiple price point basis. As a part of this strategy, we license the names and brands of numerous recognized companies, designers and celebrities. In entering into these license agreements, we plan our products to be targeted towards different market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution. If any of our licensors decides to \"reposition\" its products under the brands we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. In addition, as licensed products may be personally associated with designers or celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individuals' images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted.. Any adverse change in our relationship with PVH and its Calvin Klein or Tommy Hilfiger brands would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We have ten different license agreements relating to a variety of products sold under the Calvin Klein brand that is owned by PVH. We have three different license agreements for products sold under the Tommy Hilfiger brand, which is also owned by PVH. In February 2016, we significantly expanded our relationship with Tommy Hilfiger through a license for women's sportswear, suit separates, performance and denim. Our Tommy Hilfiger dress license was also incorporated into this license. Net sales of these two brands owned by PVH constituted approximately 46% of our net sales in fiscal 2018 and approximately 44% of our net sales in fiscal 2017. Any adverse change in our relationship with PVH, or in the reputation of Calvin Klein or Tommy Hilfiger, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 19. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Our business and the success of our products could also be harmed if we are unable to maintain or enhance the images of our proprietary brands.. Our success has also been due to the growth of our proprietary brands, their favorable images and our customers' connection to our brands. Our recent acquisition of DKI and its DKNY and Donna Karan brands further expands our portfolio of proprietary brands that also includes G.H. Bass, Vilebrequin and Andrew Marc, among others. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, the value and images of our brands may be impaired. Even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brands' images to be outdated or associate our brands with styles that are no longer popular. In addition, brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of qualities, including merchandise quality and corporate integrity. Negative claims or publicity regarding G-III, our brands or our products could adversely affect our reputation and sales regardless of whether such claims are accurate. Social media, which accelerates the dissemination of information, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims. In the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. Our businesses may be similarly affected in the future.. If our customers change their buying patterns, request additional allowances, develop their own private label brands or enter into agreements with national brand manufacturers to sell their products on an exclusive basis, our sales to these customers could be materially adversely affected.. Our customers' buying patterns, as well as the need to provide additional allowances to customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Customers' strategic initiatives, including developing their own private labels brands, selling national brands on an exclusive basis or reducing the number of vendors they purchase from, could also impact our sales to these customers. There is a trend among major retailers to concentrate purchasing among a narrowing group of vendors. To the extent that any of our key customers reduces the number of its vendors and, as a result, reduces or eliminates purchases from us, there could be a material adverse effect on us.. We have significant customer concentration, and the loss of one of our large customers could adversely affect our business.. Our ten largest customers, all of which are department or discount store groups, accounted for approximately 63.2% of our net sales in fiscal 2018, 64.1% of our net sales in fiscal 2017 and 63.5% of our net sales in fiscal 2016, with the Macy's Inc. group accounting for approximately 22.2% of our net sales in fiscal 2018 compared to 21.8% of our net sales in fiscal 2017 and 20.8% of our net sales in fiscal 2016. We expect that the percentage of our sales to Macy's will increase as a result of our womenswear license agreement with Tommy Hilfiger and our agreement with Macy's that provides Macy's with the exclusive right to sell DKNY women's apparel and accessories since February 2018. Consolidation in the retail industry could increase the concentration of our sales to our largest customers. A number of large department or discount store groups, including Macy's, have announced their intention to close a significant number of stores. This reduction in store count could adversely affect our results of operations.. Other than our agreement with Macy's relating to DKNY, we do not have long-term contracts with any customers. Sales to customers generally occur on an order-by-order basis that may be subject to cancellation or rescheduling by the customer. A decision by our major customers to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us, increase the use of their own private label brands, sell a national brand on an exclusive basis or change the manner of doing business with us could reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of any of our large customers, or the bankruptcy or serious financial difficulty of any of our large customers, could have a material adverse effect on us.. If we miscalculate the market for our products, we may end up with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others.. We often produce products to hold in inventory in order to meet our customers' delivery requirements and to be able to quickly fulfill reorders. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. In addition, weak sales and resulting markdown requests from customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 20. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Risks Relating to Our Retail Operations. Our retail operations segment may continue to incur losses if our retail turnaround strategy and/or our execution of the turnaround strategy are unsuccessful.. The retail landscape continues to evolve and, as a result, we are changing our retail strategy in an attempt to regain profitability in our retail operations segment. We are in the process of executing a turnaround strategy of this segment of our business, including termination or renegotiation of long-term leases as they come up for renewal, overall cost cutting, improved merchandising strategies for our Wilsons and G.H. Bass store chains and re-purposing certain stores for our Karl Lagerfeld Paris or DKNY brands. We need to successfully implement this strategy in order to regain profitability in our retail operations segment.. We may be required to record impairments of long-lived assets or incur other charges relating to our company-operated retail stores.. Impairment testing of our retail stores' long-lived assets requires us to make estimates about our future performance and cash flows that are inherently uncertain. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic conditions, our results of operations, and competitive conditions in the industry. Due to the fixed-cost structure associated with our retail operations, negative cash flows or the closure of a store could result in an impairment of leasehold improvements or other long-lived assets, write-downs of inventory, severance costs, lease termination costs or the loss of working capital, which could adversely impact our business and financial results. For example, we recorded impairments of $10.5 million in fiscal 2017 and $6.5 million in fiscal 2018. These impairment charges may increase as we continue to evaluate our retail operations. The recording of additional impairments in the future may have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.. Leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses.. All of the stores operated by us are leased. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing real estate. Our exposure with respect to retail store leases increased as a result of our acquisition of DKI. Store leases generally require us to pay a fixed minimum rent and a variable amount based on a percentage of annual sales at that location. We generally cannot cancel our leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be committed to perform certain obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying rent for the balance of the applicable lease term. As each of our leases expires, if we do not have a renewal option, we may be unable to negotiate a renewal on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. In addition, we may not be able to close an unprofitable store due to an existing operating covenant, which may cause us to operate the location at a loss and prevent us from finding a more desirable location.. Our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. A reduction in the volume of outlet mall traffic could adversely affect our retail sales.. Substantially all of the stores in our retail operations segment are operated as outlet stores and located in larger outlet centers, many of which are located in, or near, vacation destinations or away from large population centers where department stores and other traditional retailers are concentrated. Economic uncertainty, increased fuel prices, travel concerns and other circumstances, which would lead to decreased travel, could have a material adverse effect on sales at our outlet stores. Other factors that could affect the success of our outlet stores include:. •. the location of the outlet mall or the location of a particular store within the mall;. •. the other tenants occupying space at the outlet mall;. •. increased competition in areas where the outlet malls are located;. •. a downturn in the economy generally or in a particular area where an outlet mall is located;. •. the shift to online shopping;. 21. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. a downturn in foreign shoppers in the United States; and. •. the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to outlet malls.. Sales at our outlet stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic at the malls where our stores are located. In fiscal 2018, outlet malls experienced a reduction in consumer traffic, which adversely affected the results of our retail operations segment. Our outlet stores benefit from the ability of a mall's other tenants and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of outlet malls as shopping destinations. Changes in areas around our existing retail locations, including the type and nature of the other retailers located near our stores, that result in reductions in customer foot traffic or otherwise render the locations unsuitable could cause our sales to be less than expected. A reduction in outlet mall traffic as a result of these or other factors could materially adversely affect our business.. Our ability to successfully operate retail stores depends on many factors.. Our ability to successfully operate our retail stores depends on many factors, including, among others, our ability to:. •. negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired rent and tenant improvement allowances;. •. achieve brand awareness, affinity and purchase intent in the our markets;. •. achieve increased sales and gross margins at our stores;. •. hire, train and retain store associates and field management;. •. assimilate store associates and field management into our corporate culture; and. •. source and supply sufficient inventory levels.. The retail business is intensely competitive and increased or new competition could have a material adverse effect on us.. The retail industry is intensely competitive. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including, among others, other outlet stores, department stores, specialty stores, warehouse clubs and e-commerce retailers. We also compete in particular markets with a number of retailers that specialize in the products that we sell. A number of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our retail business, results of operations and financial condition including:. •. increased operational efficiencies of competitors;. •. competitive pricing strategies, including deep discount pricing by a broad range of retailers during periods of poor consumer confidence or economic instability;. •. expansion of product offerings by existing competitors;. •. entry by new competitors into markets in which we operate retail stores;. •. adoption by existing competitors of innovative retail sales methods; and. •. increased consumer preference for online apparel purchases and innovations by e-commerce retailers such as Amazon.. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors, or be assured that prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by our competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our business.. Laws on privacy continue to evolve and further limits on how we collect or use customer information could adversely affect our business.. We collect and store customer information primarily for marketing purposes and to improve the services we provide. The use or retention of certain customer information is subject to applicable privacy laws. These laws and the judicial interpretation of such laws are evolving on a frequent basis. If we fail to. 22. TABLE OF CONTENTS. comply with these laws, we may be subject to fines or penalties, which could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any limitations imposed on the use of such customer information by federal, state or local governments, could have an adverse effect on our future marketing activities. Governmental focus on data security and/or privacy may lead to additional legislation or regulations. As a result, we may have to modify our business with the goal of further improving data security, which would result in increased expenses and operating complexity. To the extent our or our business partners' security procedures and protection of customer information prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become subject to litigation or other claims, which could expose us to liability and cause damage to our reputation, brand and results of operations.. Risk Factors Relating to the Business of Donna Karan International. Our failure to realize the benefits of the DKI business in a timely and cost-efficient manner could adversely affect our results of operations.. The success of the DKI acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to fully realize the anticipated benefits of adding the Donna Karan and DKNY businesses to our portfolio. Prior to our acquisition, sales of the DKI business were decreasing, in large part due to restructuring decisions made by the prior owner. The DKI business incurred significant net losses in the year ended December 31, 2015 and the nine months ended September 30, 2016, as well in the two months of our fiscal 2017 year and in fiscal 2018. In addition, at the time of the acquisition, its retail operations were experiencing declines in comparable store sales, sales per square foot and gross margins. To realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction, as well as operate on a profitable basis, we must increase sales of DKNY and other Donna Karan products and improve the operations of the company. Any failure to timely realize these anticipated benefits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. These efforts will also require substantial commitments of management time and attention and other resources, which could otherwise have been allocated to different uses that may have been beneficial to our business.. We have entered into an exclusive arrangement with Macy's with respect to DKNY women's apparel and accessories since February 2018. If this arrangement does not result in significant sales of DKNY product, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. In March 2017, we entered into an agreement with Macy's under which Macy's serves, since February 2018, as the exclusive U.S. department store for sales of DKNY women's apparel and accessories. We will need to sell a significant amount of DKNY product to Macy's in order for us to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of DKI. For this acquisition to be successful, we also need to sell DKNY product outside women's apparel and accessories to Macy's and other department stores and our licensees will need to sell licensed DKNY product to Macy's and other department stores. Other department stores could decide to carry lower amounts of DKNY products, or not to carry DKNY products at all, as a result of our exclusive arrangement with Macy's. If Macy's is not able to sell a significant amount of DKNY product or if other department stores reduce their amount of purchases of DKNY product or decide not to sell DKNY product, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our indebtedness increased following the completion of the DKI acquisition, which could adversely affect us.. Our indebtedness significantly increased as a result of the acquisition of DKI. We are a party to a $650 million senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility, which replaced our previous $450 million facility, and a $300 million senior secured term loan facility (\"Term Facility\") (collectively, the \"Bank Debt\"). In addition to the indebtedness under the Bank Debt, we also incurred $125 million of debt pursuant to a junior lien secured note in favor of LVMH. The increase in the amount of our outstanding debt could adversely affect us by decreasing our business flexibility and increasing our borrowing costs. The Bank Debt contains certain restrictive covenants imposing operating and financial restrictions on us. These covenants restrict our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries, among other things, to: incur or guarantee indebtedness; incur liens; pay dividends or repurchase stock; enter into transactions with affiliates; consummate asset sales, acquisitions or mergers; prepay certain other indebtedness; or make investments. The revolving credit facility also requires us to comply with certain financial covenants.. 23. TABLE OF CONTENTS. The operating restrictions and financial covenants in the Bank Debt may limit our ability to finance future operations, capital needs or acquisitions or to engage in other business activities. Our ability to comply with financial covenants could be materially affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will satisfy any such requirements. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we may need to seek waivers or amendments of such covenants, seek alternative or additional sources of financing or reduce our expenditures. We may be unable to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative or additional financing on favorable terms, or at all.. If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the Bank Debt, as well as the holder of the LVMH note, may declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and exercise remedies in respect of the collateral. We may not be able to repay all amounts due under the Bank Debt or LVMH note in the event these amounts are declared due upon an event of default.. Our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including:. •. requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, interest and other amounts payable on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes;. •. making it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, debt refinancing, acquisitions or other purposes;. •. reducing our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry or market conditions;. •. making us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business operations or in the economy; and. •. exposing us to interest rate risk given that a substantial portion of our debt obligations is at variable interest rates.. The Term Facility was the first debt issued by us that was rated by rating agencies. Our credit rating and ability to access well-functioning capital markets are important to our ability to secure future debt financing on acceptable terms.. Our access to the debt markets and the terms of such access depend on multiple factors including the condition of the debt capital markets, our operating performance and our credit ratings. The Term Facility was the first debt issued by us that was assigned a rating by the major credit rating agencies. These ratings are based on a number of factors including their assessment of our financial strength and financial policies. Our borrowing costs will be dependent to some extent on the rating assigned to our debt. However, there can be no assurance that any particular rating assigned to us will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency if, in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. Incurrence of additional debt by us could adversely affect our credit rating. Any disruptions or turmoil in the capital markets or any downgrade of our credit rating could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.. DKI will be subject to additional regulatory requirements as a result of becoming part of a publicly-traded company in the United States.. Prior to our acquisition of DKI, it was an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of a company that is traded on the Paris Bourse. As such, DKI was not subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the \"Exchange Act\"), as amended and other federal securities laws, as well as the compliance obligations of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including with respect to internal control over financial reporting, and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of. 24. TABLE OF CONTENTS. 2010, including with respect to the use of so-called \"conflict minerals.\" Compliance with these new obligations as a result of DKI becoming a part of G-III, a publicly-traded company in the United States, will require significant resources and management attention, and any failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on us.. Risk Factors Relating to the Operation of Our Business. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or are unable to attract key personnel, our business will be harmed.. Our future success depends on Morris Goldfarb, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and other key personnel. The loss of the services of Mr. Goldfarb and any negative market or industry perception arising from the loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on us and the market price of our common stock. Our other executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals or the inability to attract key personnel could also adversely affect us.. We have expanded our business through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources, an inability to integrate acquired operations and extra expenses. This could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition.. Part of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses could divert our management's time and resources. Acquired businesses may not be successfully integrated with our operations. We may not realize the intended benefits of an acquisition, such as our acquisition of DKI. We also might not be successful in identifying or negotiating suitable acquisitions, which could negatively impact our growth strategy.. Acquisitions could also result in:. •. substantial cash expenditures;. •. potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities;. •. the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities;. •. a decrease in our profit margins;. •. amortization of intangibles and potential impairment of goodwill;. •. reduction of management attention to other parts of our business;. •. failure to generate expected financial results or reach business goals; and. •. increased expenditures on human resources and related costs.. If acquisitions disrupt our operations, our business may suffer.. We conduct certain of our operations through joint ventures. There could be disagreements with our joint venture partners that could adversely affect our interest in the joint ventures.. In August 2017, we entered into a joint venture with Amlon Capital B.V. to produce and market women's and men's apparel and accessories pursuant to a long-term license for DKNY and Donna Karan in the People's Republic of China, including Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan. We own 49% of the joint venture, with Amlon owning the remaining 51%. In addition, in June 2015, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Karl Lagerfeld Group BV pursuant to which we acquired a 49% ownership interest in KLNA, an entity that holds the worldwide rights to Karl Lagerfeld trademarks, including the Karl Lagerfeld Paris brand that we currently use, for all consumer products (except eyewear, fragrance, cosmetics, watches, jewelry, and hospitality services) and apparel in the United States, Canada and Mexico. We may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. These joint venture partners, as well as any future partners, may have interests that are different from our interests that may result in conflicting views as to the conduct of the business of the joint venture. In the event that we have a disagreement with a joint venture partner with respect to a particular issue to come before the joint venture, or as to the management or conduct of. 25. TABLE OF CONTENTS. the business of the joint venture, we may not be able to resolve such disagreement in our favor. Any such disagreement could have a material adverse effect on our interest in the joint venture, the business of the joint venture or the portion of our growth strategy related to the joint venture.. We may need additional financing to continue to grow.. We incurred significant additional debt in connection with our acquisition of DKI. The continued growth of our business, including as a result of acquisitions, depends on our access to sufficient funds to support our growth. Our primary source of working capital to support the growth of our operations is our revolving credit agreement which currently extends to December 2021. Our growth is dependent on our ability to continue to be able to extend and increase our line of credit. If we are unable to refinance our debt, we cannot be sure we will be able to secure alternative financing on satisfactory terms or at all. The loss of the use of this credit facility or the inability to replace this facility when it expires would materially impair our ability to operate our business.. Our business is highly seasonal.. Retail sales of apparel have traditionally been seasonal in nature. Historically, our wholesale business has been dependent on our sales from July through November. Net sales in the months of July through November accounted for approximately 54% of our net sales in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, and 57% of our net sales in fiscal 2016. We are highly dependent on our results of operations during the second half of our fiscal year. Any difficulties we may encounter during this period as a result of weather or disruption of manufacturing or transportation of our products will have a magnified effect on our net sales and net income for the year. In addition, because of the large amount of outerwear we sell at both wholesale and retail, unusually warm weather conditions during the peak fall and winter outerwear selling season, including as a result of any change in historical climate patterns, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations for our retail business also may fluctuate based upon such factors as the timing of certain holiday seasons, the number and timing of new store openings, the acceptability of seasonal merchandise offerings, the timing and level of markdowns, store closings and remodels, competitive factors, weather and general economic conditions. The second half of the year is expected to continue to provide a larger amount of our net sales and a substantial majority of our net income for the foreseeable future.. Extreme or unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business.. Extreme weather events and changes in weather patterns can influence customer trends and shopping habits. Extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the fall and winter seasons, or cool weather during the summer season, may diminish demand for our seasonal merchandise. Heavy snowfall, hurricanes or other severe weather events in the areas in which our retail stores and the retail stores of our wholesale customers are located may decrease customer traffic in those stores and reduce our sales and profitability. If severe weather events were to force closure of or disrupt operations at the distribution centers we use for our merchandise, we could incur higher costs and experience longer lead times to distribute our products to our retail stores, wholesale customers or e-commerce customers. If prolonged, such extreme or unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to successfully translate market trends into attractive product offerings, our sales and profitability could suffer.. The retail and apparel industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. Our ability to successfully compete depends on a number of factors, including our ability to effectively anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demands and tastes across multiple product lines and tiers of distribution. We are required to translate market trends into attractive product offerings and operate within substantial production and delivery constraints. We cannot be sure we will continue to be successful in this regard. We need to anticipate and respond to changing trends quickly, efficiently and effectively in order to be successful. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in customer tastes, preferences, shopping and spending patterns could lead to, among other things, excess inventories or a shortage or products and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 26. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Expansion of our product offerings involves significant costs and uncertainty and could adversely affect our results of operations.. An important part of our strategy is to expand the types of products we offer. During the past few years, we have added licenses for new lines of women's suits, dresses, performance wear, sportswear and men's and women's swimwear, as well as women's handbags, small leather goods and luggage. We became a manufacturer of swimwear, resort wear and related accessories as a result of our acquisition of Vilebrequin and a manufacturer of footwear as a result of our acquisition of G.H. Bass. We intend to continue to add additional product lines and expand existing brands into new product lines in the future. As is typical with new products, demand and market acceptance for any new products we introduce will be subject to uncertainty. Designing, producing and marketing new products require substantial expenditures. We cannot be certain that our efforts and expenditures will successfully generate sales or that sales that are generated will be sufficient to cover our expenditures.. Operation of our Vilebrequin business involves costs and uncertainties.. Vilebrequin sells its products through a network of both owned and franchised specialty retail stores and shops, online stores, as well as through select wholesale distribution. Our success with Vilebrequin is dependent, in part, on our ability to protect and enhance the reputation and status of the Vilebrequin brand and maintain the distinctive design and construction of Vilebrequin's key swimwear products. The use by Vilebrequin of a specialized fabric to manufacture its swimwear products restricts the number suppliers from whom we can source this raw material. Any disruption in the operations of these suppliers could create an inability to manufacture Vilebrequin swimwear and supply required product to our stores or to our wholesale customers in a timely fashion or without a significant delay, as we may not be able to quickly find another raw material supplier that can meet Vilebrequin's production requirements.. We are subject to the risk of inventory loss and theft.. Efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success and profitability. To be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels and an appropriate product mix to meet the demands of our wholesale and retail customers without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs to store and hold the goods unduly impacts our financial results. If our buying decisions do not accurately predict customer trends or purchasing actions, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns to dispose of the excess inventory, which also can adversely impact our financial results. We continue to focus on ways to reduce these risks, but we cannot be certain you that we will continue to be successful in our inventory management. If we are not successful in managing our inventory balances, our cash flows from operations and net income may be negatively affected.. We have experienced inventory shrinkage in the past, and we cannot be certain that incidences of inventory loss and theft will decrease in the future or that the measures we are taking will effectively reduce the problem of inventory shrinkage. Although some level of inventory shrinkage is an unavoidable cost of doing business, if we were to experience higher rates of inventory shrinkage or incur increased security costs to combat inventory theft, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of materials used in our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods sold and our ability to meet our customers' demands.. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials used in our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers' demands. We compete with numerous entities for supplies of materials and manufacturing capacity. Raw materials are vulnerable to adverse climate conditions, animal diseases and natural disasters that can affect the supply and price of raw materials. We may not be able to pass on all or any portion of higher raw material prices to our customers. Future increases in raw material prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Any raw material price increase or increase in costs related to the transport of our products (primarily petroleum costs) could increase our cost of sales and decrease our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers. In addition, if one or more of our competitors is able to reduce its production costs by taking greater advantage of any reductions in raw material prices, favorable sourcing. 27. TABLE OF CONTENTS. agreements or new manufacturing technologies (which enable manufacturers to produce goods on a more cost-effective basis) we may face pricing pressures from those competitors and may be forced to reduce our prices or face a decline in net sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our trademark and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected.. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We may, however, experience conflict with various third parties who acquire or claim ownership rights in certain trademarks. We cannot be sure that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others.. In the course of our attempts to expand into foreign markets, we may experience conflicts with various third parties who have acquired ownership rights in certain trademarks, which would impede our use and registration of some of our trademarks. Such conflicts are common and may arise from time to time as we pursue international expansion, such as with the overseas expansion of our Donna Karan,  DKNY, Vilebrequin and G.H. Bass businesses. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Enforcing rights to our intellectual property may be difficult and expensive, and we may not be successful in combating counterfeit products and stopping infringement of our intellectual property rights, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our trademark and other intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our trademark and other intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights, continued sales of such competing products by third parties could harm our brands and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent upon foreign manufacturers.. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We also do not have long-term written agreements with any of our manufacturers. As a result, any of these manufacturers may unilaterally terminate its relationship with us at any time. Almost all of our products are imported from independent foreign manufacturers. The failure of these manufacturers to meet required quality standards could damage our relationships with our customers. In addition, the failure by these manufacturers to ship products to us in a timely manner could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers. The failure to make timely deliveries could cause customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept delivery of products or demand reduced prices.. We are also dependent on these manufacturers for compliance with our policies and the policies of our licensors and customers regarding labor practices employed by factories that manufacture product for us. Any failure by these manufacturers to comply with required labor standards or any other divergence in their labor or other practices from those generally considered ethical in the United States and the potential negative publicity relating to any of these events, could result in a violation by us of our license agreements, and harm us and our reputation. In addition, a manufacturer's failure to comply with safety or content regulations and standards could result in substantial liability and harm to our reputation.. The use of foreign manufacturers subjects us to additional risks.. Our arrangements with foreign manufacturers are subject to the usual risks of engaging in business abroad, including currency fluctuations, political or labor instability and potential import restrictions, duties and tariffs. We do not maintain insurance for the potential lost profits due to disruptions of our overseas manufacturers. Because our products are produced abroad, mostly in China, political or economic instability in China or elsewhere could cause substantial disruption in the business of our foreign manufacturers. For example, in the past, the Chinese government has reduced tax rebates to factories for the manufacture of textile and leather garments. The rebate reduction resulted in factories seeking to recoup more of their costs from customers, resulting in higher prices for goods imported from China. This tax rebate has been reinstated in certain instances. However, new or increased reductions in this rebate would cause an increase in the cost of finished products from China which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 28. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections. This could delay deliveries or increase costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations.. Our expansion into the European market exposes us to uncertain economic conditions in the Euro zone.. Demand for our products depends in part on the general economic conditions affecting the countries in which we do business. We are attempting to expand our presence in the European markets, including for our Donna Karan, DKNY and Vilebrequin businesses. The economic situation in Europe is still recovering and economic performance remains uncertain. There is still some concern that certain European countries may default in payments due on their national debt obligations and from related European financial restructuring efforts. If such defaults were to occur, or if European financial restructuring efforts create their own instability, current instability in the global credit markets may increase. Continued financial instability in Europe could adversely affect our European operations and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us.. We have foreign currency exposures relating to buying and selling in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our functional currency.. We have foreign currency exposure related to foreign denominated revenues and costs, which must be translated into U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our reported earnings and the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. In addition, while certain currencies (notably the Hong Kong dollar and Chinese Renminbi) are currently managed in value in relation to the U.S. dollar by foreign central banks or governmental entities, such conditions may change, thereby exposing us to various risks as a result.. Certain of our foreign operations purchase products from suppliers denominated in U.S. dollars and Euros, which may expose such operations to increases in cost of goods sold (thereby lowering profit margins) as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. Our exposures are primarily concentrated in the Euro. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors purchase and sell products in the same market and the cost of certain items required in our operations. In addition, certain of our foreign operations have receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies, which exposes such operations to foreign exchange losses as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. Such fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are not currently engaged in any hedging activities to protect against currency risks. If there is downward pressure on the value of the dollar, our purchase prices for our products could increase. We may not be able to offset an increase in product costs with a price increase to our customers.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. On December 22, 2017, U.S. federal tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), was signed into law, significantly changing the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Among other things, the Tax Act:. •. establishes a flat corporate income tax rate of 21% to replace current rates that range from 15% to 35% and eliminates the corporate alternative minimum tax;. •. creates a territorial tax system rather than a worldwide system, which will generally allow companies to repatriate future foreign source earnings without incurring additional U.S. taxes by providing a 100% exemption for the foreign source portion of dividends from certain foreign subsidiaries;. •. subjects certain foreign earnings on which U.S. income tax is currently deferred to a one-time transition tax;. •. •. limits the deduction for net interest expense incurred by US companies;. 29. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. eliminates the federal corporate alternative minimum tax;. •. permits immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures; and. •. eliminates the deduction for performance-based compensation paid to our top five executive officers, subject to the effect of a limited transition rule.. As a result of the changes to U.S. federal tax laws implemented by the Tax Act, our taxable income could change. The Tax Act is a complex revision to the U.S. federal income tax laws with various impacts on different categories of taxpayers and industries. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as rulemaking and interpretations by the Internal Revenue Service or Financial Accounting Standards Board, any of which could lessen or increase adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax obligations. We recognized a provisional charge against income of<U+2009> $6.9 million in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 as a result of one-time effects of the Tax Act primarily relating to a reduction of deferred tax assets and taxes due on foreign earnings. We continue to work with our tax advisors to determine the full impact that the Tax Act will have on us. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain, and the impact of certain provisions of the Tax Act on our financial condition and results of operations could be adverse and such impact could be material.. We are subject to risks associated with international operations.. Our ability to capitalize on the potential of our international operations, including to realize the benefits of our Donna Karan, DKNY and Vilebrequin businesses and successfully expand into international markets, is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include:. •. the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including trade and labor restrictions;. •. compliance with United States and other country laws relating to foreign operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business;. •. unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and. •. new tariffs or other barriers in international markets.. We are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international operations, including:. •. political instability and terrorist attacks;. •. changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and. •. general and economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets.. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international business in the future or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices.. Possible new tariffs that might be imposed by the United States government could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.. The President of the United States has ordered government officials to compile a list of products and intended tariff increases on imports from China. After a required period of notice and consultation with the appropriate parties, the list would be published and tariff increases would be implemented. Such a list could include apparel and other items imported by us from China. China has already announced a plan to impose tariffs on a wide range of American products in retaliation for new American tariffs on steel and aluminum. Additional tariffs could be imposed by China in response to the President's proposal to increase tariffs on products imported from China. There is also a concern that the imposition of additional tariffs by. 30. TABLE OF CONTENTS. the United States, including the increases proposed for steel and aluminum, could result in the adoption of tariffs by other countries as well. The resulting trade war could have a significant adverse effect on world trade and the world economy. While it is too early to predict how the recently enacted tariffs on imported aluminum and steel will impact our business, the imposition of tariffs on apparel or other items imported by us from China could require us to increase prices to our customers or, if unable to do so, result in lowering our gross margin on products sold. Tariffs on apparel imported from China could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We have been audited by the Canadian Border Services Agency (\"CBSA\") and are in the process of appealing the CBSA ruling. Loss of this appeal could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. In October 2017, the CBSA issued a final audit report to G-III's Canadian subsidiary that challenged the valuation used by the Canadian subsidiary for certain goods imported into Canada. The period covered by the examination is February 1, 2014 through the date of the final report, October 27, 2017. The CBSA has requested us to reassess our customs entries for that period using the price paid or payable by the Canadian retail customers for certain imported goods rather than the price paid by us to the vendor. The CBSA has also requested that we change the valuation method used to pay duties with respect to good imported in the future.. We issued a bond in the amount of CAD$26.9 million ($20.9 million) in March 2018, representing customs duty and interest that is claimed to be owed by us through December 31, 2017. In March 2018, we amended the duties filed for the month of January 2018 in accordance with the new valuation method. The additional duty claimed to be owed for January 2018 was CAD$1.4 million ($1.1 million) which is under review by the CBSA. Beginning February 1, 2018, we began paying duties in Canada on imported goods based on the price paid or payable by the Canadian retail customers. Duties paid on the higher dutiable value will be not be charged as an expense in our statement of operations, but will be recorded as a deferred expense until the appeal process has concluded.. If our appeal of the audit findings is not successful, we will have to pay the duties and interest that have been secured by the bond. This will result in a charge to our statement of operations for past duties, as well as for the additional duties we deferred beginning on February 1, 2018 through the conclusion of the appeal process. In addition, our loss of the appeal would result in increased duties paid in Canada on products imported into Canada and will increase our cost of sales and decrease our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers. This could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. If we do not successfully upgrade, maintain and secure our information systems to support the needs of our organization, this could have an adverse impact on the operation of our business.. We rely heavily on information systems to manage operations, including a full range of financial, sourcing, retail and merchandising systems, and regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems. The reliability and capacity of our information systems is critical. Despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, power outages and other technical malfunctions. Any disruptions affecting our information systems, or any delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or in integrating them with current systems, could have a material adverse impact on the operation of our business. In addition, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends in part on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans.. A data security or privacy breach could adversely affect our business.. The protection of customer, employee and company data is critical to us. Customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information from cyberattack or other security breaches. A significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. Our business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about customers and employees. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information. 31. TABLE OF CONTENTS. technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach or attack could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.. Because the methods used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently and may not be immediately detected, we may be unable to anticipate these methods or promptly implement preventative measures. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, revenues and competitive position. In addition to taking the necessary precautions ourselves, we require that third-party service providers implement reasonable security measures to protect our customers' identity and privacy. We do not, however, control these third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future.. Our use and handling of personally identifiable data is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. For example, the European Union adopted a new regulation that becomes effective on May 25, 2018, called the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which requires companies to meet additional requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to exercise certain additional rights with respect to their personal data. The GDPR calls for privacy and process enhancements, accompanied by a commitment of resources and other expenditures in support of compliance. We are reviewing our operations to determine our obligations under GDPR. Violations of GDPR could result in significant penalties. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change from time to time, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subjected to legal risk. We are also contractually obligated to comply with certain industry standards regarding payment card information. Increasing costs associated with information security, such as increased investment in technology, the cost of compliance and costs resulting from consumer fraud could cause our business and results of operations to suffer materially.. Risk Factors Relating to the Economy and the Apparel Industry. Recent and future economic conditions, including volatility in the financial and credit markets, may adversely affect our business.. Economic conditions have affected, and in the future may adversely affect, the apparel industry and our major customers. Economic conditions have, at times, led to a reduction in overall consumer spending, which could have an adverse impact on sales of our products. A disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. A significant adverse change in a customer's financial and/or credit position could also require us to sell fewer products to that customer or to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer's receivables or could limit our ability to collect receivables related to previous purchases by that customer. As a result, our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase.. Our ability to continue to have the necessary liquidity to operate our business may be adversely impacted by a number of factors, including uncertain conditions in the credit and financial markets, which could limit the availability and increase the cost of financing. A deterioration of our results of operations and cash flow resulting from decreases in consumer spending, could, among other things, impact our ability to comply with financial covenants in our existing credit facility.. Our historical sources of liquidity to fund ongoing cash requirements include cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings through our revolving credit facility and equity offerings. The sufficiency and availability of credit may be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions who are sources of credit for our borrowing and liquidity; an increase in the cost of capital; the reduced availability. 32. TABLE OF CONTENTS. of credit; our ability to execute our strategy; the level of our cash flows, which will be impacted by retailer and consumer acceptance of our products and the level of consumer discretionary spending; maintenance of financial covenants included in our revolving credit facility; and interest rate fluctuations. Interest rates increased in fiscal 2018 and are expected to continue to increase in fiscal 2019. We cannot predict the effect of increasing interest rates on the availability or aggregate cost of our borrowings. We cannot be certain that any additional required financing, whether debt or equity, will be available in amounts needed or on terms acceptable to us, if at all.. As of January 31, 2018, we were in compliance with the financial covenants in our revolving credit facility. Compliance with these financial covenants is dependent on the results of our operations, which are subject to a number of factors including current economic conditions. The economic environment has at times resulted in lower consumer confidence and lower retail sales. Adverse developments in the economy could lead to reduced consumer spending which could adversely impact our net sales and cash flow, which could affect our compliance with our financial covenants. A violation of our covenants could limit access to our credit facilities. Should such restrictions on our credit facilities and these factors occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The cyclical nature of the apparel industry and uncertainty over future economic prospects and consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The apparel industry is cyclical. Purchases of outerwear, sportswear, swimwear, footwear and other apparel and accessories tend to decline during recessionary periods and may decline for a variety of other reasons, including changes in fashion trends and the introduction of new products or pricing changes by our competitors. Uncertainties regarding future economic prospects may affect consumer-spending habits and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Uncertainty with respect to consumer spending as a result of weak economic conditions has, at times, caused our customers to delay the placing of initial orders and to slow the pace of reorders during the seasonal peak of our business. Weak economic conditions have had a material adverse effect on our results of operations at times in the past and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future as well.. The competitive nature of our industry may result in lower prices for our products and decreased gross profit margins.. The apparel business is highly competitive. We have numerous competitors with respect to the sale of apparel, footwear and accessories, including e-commerce websites, distributors that import products from abroad and domestic retailers with established foreign manufacturing capabilities. Many of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources and greater manufacturing capacity than we do. The general availability of contract manufacturing capacity also allows ease of access by new market entrants. The competitive nature of the apparel industry may result in lower prices for our products and decreased gross profit margins, either of which may materially adversely affect our sales and profitability. Sales of our products are affected by a number of competitive factors including style, price, quality, brand recognition and reputation, product appeal and general fashion trends.. If major department, mass merchant and specialty store chains consolidate, close stores or cease to do business, our business could be negatively affected.. We sell our products to major department, mass merchant and specialty store chains. Continued consolidation in the retail industry, as well as store closing or retailers ceasing to do business, could negatively impact our business. Macy's, JC Penney and Kohl's, as well as other store chains, have announced their intention to close stores. Bon-Ton Stores, a customer of ours for many years, has filed for bankruptcy and may close all of its stores. Store closings could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Consolidation could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers. With increased consolidation in the retail industry, we are increasingly dependent on retailers whose bargaining strength may increase and whose share of our business may grow. As a result, we may face greater pressure from these customers to provide more favorable terms, including increased support of their retail margins. As purchasing decisions become more centralized, the risks from consolidation increase. A store group could decide to close stores, decrease the amount of product purchased from us, modify the amount of floor. 33. TABLE OF CONTENTS. space allocated to outerwear or other apparel in general or to our products specifically or focus on promoting private label products or national brand products for which it has exclusive rights rather than promoting our products. Customers are also concentrating purchases among a narrowing group of vendors. These types of decisions by our key customers could adversely affect our business.. If new legislation restricting the importation or increasing the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad is enacted, our business could be adversely affected.. Legislation that would restrict the importation or increase the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad has been periodically introduced in Congress. The enactment of new legislation or international trade regulation, or executive action affecting international textile or trade agreements, could adversely affect our business. International trade agreements that can provide for tariffs and/or quotas can increase the cost and limit the amount of product that can be imported.. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the U.S., the European Union, Asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have, if any, on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social, economic, or monetary policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future, or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices.. The U.S. presidential administration has threatened to impose retaliatory duties against China in order to reverse what it perceives as unfair trade practices that have negatively impacted manufacturing in the U.S. The administration has also discussed the implementation of other taxes that would impose an additional tax on imported goods regardless of origin. It is possible that the United States may impose new trade or other initiatives that adversely affect the trading status of countries where our apparel is manufactured and such initiatives could include retaliatory duties, higher tariffs or other trade sanctions. The administration has indicated it may make modifications to international trade policy or agreements or engage in other restrictive trade practices that may have the effect of reducing the amount or increasing the cost of imported goods. Changes in existing trade agreements, including the North American Free Trade Agreement, or imposition of tariffs on our products imported from China or other countries could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results.. China's accession agreement for membership in the World Trade Organization provides that member countries, including the United States, may impose safeguard quotas on specific products. We are unable to assess the potential for future action by the United States government with respect to any product category in the event that the quantity of imported apparel significantly disrupts the apparel market in the United States. Future action by the United States in response to a disruption in its apparel markets could limit our ability to import apparel and increase our costs.. The effects of war, acts of terrorism or natural disasters could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The continued threat of terrorism, heightened security measures and military action in response to acts of terrorism or civil unrest has, at times, disrupted commerce and intensified concerns regarding the United States and world economies. Any further acts of terrorism or new or extended hostilities may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. Similarly, the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, fires, floods or earthquakes could result in the closure of one or more of our distribution centers, our corporate headquarters or a significant number of stores or impact one or more of our key suppliers. In addition, these types of events could result in increases in energy prices or a fuel shortage, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of product, disruption in the transport of product from overseas, delay in the delivery of product to our factories, our customers or our stores and disruption in our information and communication systems. Accordingly, these types of events could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations.. 34. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Other Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer may be in a position to control matters requiring a stockholder vote.. As of March 28, 2018, Morris Goldfarb, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 9.3% of our common stock. His significant role in our management and his reputation in the apparel industry could make his support crucial to the approval of any major transaction involving us. As a result, he may have the ability to control the outcome on matters requiring stockholder approval including, but not limited to, the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. He also may have the ability to control our management and affairs.. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly.. Between February 1, 2015 and March 28, 2018, the market price of our common stock has ranged from a low of<U+2009> $18.00 to a high of $73.93 per share. The market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including:. •. fluctuations in our quarterly revenues or those of our competitors as a result of seasonality or other factors;. •. a shortfall in revenues or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors;. •. changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance or the financial performance of our competitors or companies in our industry generally;. •. announcements concerning our competitors;. •. changes in product pricing policies by our competitors or our customers;. •. general conditions in our industry; and. •. general conditions in the securities markets.. Our actual financial results might vary from our publicly disclosed financial forecasts.. From time to time, we publicly disclose financial forecasts. Our forecasts reflect numerous assumptions concerning our expected performance, as well as other factors that are beyond our control and that might not turn out to be correct. As a result, variations from our forecasts could be material. Our financial results are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those identified throughout this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. If our actual financial results are worse than our financial forecasts, as occurred in fiscal 2017, the price of our common stock may decline.. If our goodwill, trademarks and other intangibles become impaired, we may be required to record charges to earnings.. As of January 31, 2018, we had goodwill, trademarks and other intangibles in an aggregate amount of $751.4 million, or approximately 39% of our total assets and approximately 67% of our stockholders' equity. Approximately $621.7 million of our goodwill, trademarks and other intangibles was recorded in connection with our acquisition of DKI. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"GAAP\"), we review our goodwill and other indefinite life intangibles for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable due to factors such as reduced estimates of future cash flows and profitability, increased cost of debt, slower growth rates in our industry or a decline in our stock price and market capitalization. Estimates of future cash flows and profitability are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. However, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. A significant decline in our market capitalization or deterioration in our projected results could result in an impairment of our. 35. TABLE OF CONTENTS. goodwill, trademarks and/or other intangibles. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of our goodwill is determined to exist which would negatively impact our results of operations and could negatively impact our stock price.. We are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price.. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010.. The internal control over financial reporting required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may not prevent or detect misstatements because of certain of its limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. As a result, even effective internal controls may not provide reasonable assurances with respect to the preparation and presentation of financial statements. We cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our Annual Report on Form 10-K or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. Discovery and disclosure of a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could have a material impact on our financial statements and could cause our stock price to decline.. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that have required, and continue to require, the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. Our efforts to comply with Dodd-Frank requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. For example, we are subject to SEC disclosure obligations relating to our use of so-called \"conflict minerals\" such as columbite-tantalite, cassiterite (tin), wolframite (tungsten) and gold. These minerals are present in a number of our products.. We have incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with complying with the supply chain due diligence procedures required by the SEC. The preparation of our conflict minerals report is dependent upon the implementation and operation of our systems and processes and information supplied by our suppliers of products that contain, or potentially contain, conflict minerals. To the extent that the information that we receive from our suppliers is inaccurate or inadequate or our processes in obtaining that information do not fulfill the SEC's requirements, we could face both reputational and SEC enforcement risks.. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which additional corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may require changes to certain business practices, or otherwise adversely affect our business.. While we have developed and instituted corporate compliance programs and continue to update our programs in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation."
