[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. Our revenue and profitability are influenced by trading volume and currency volatility, which are directly impacted by domestic and international market and economic conditions that are beyond our control.. During recent years, there has been significant disruption and volatility in the global financial markets. Our revenue is influenced by the general level of trading activity in the global financial markets. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from period to period due primarily to movements and trends in the world's financial markets and to fluctuations in trading levels. We have generally experienced greater trading volume in periods of volatile markets. In the event we experience lower levels of market volatility, our revenue and profitability will likely be negatively affected. In addition, our customer base is primarily comprised of individual retail customers who view trading in the markets we offer as an alternative investment class. If global economic conditions limit the disposable income of our customers, our business could be materially adversely affected as our customers may choose to curtail their trading, which could result in reduced customer trading volume and trading revenue.. Like other financial services firms, our business and profitability are directly affected by elements that are beyond our control, such as economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance, changes in the volume of market transactions, changes in supply and demand for currencies, movements in currency exchange rates, changes in the financial strength of market participants, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in the markets in which such transactions occur, changes in how such transactions are processed and disruptions due to terrorism, war or extreme weather events. Any one or more of these factors, or other factors, may adversely affect our business and results of operations and cash flows. A weakness in equity markets could result in reduced trading activity by our customers and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and our future operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations or declines.. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective and may leave us exposed to unidentified or unexpected risks.. We are dependent on our risk-management policies and the adherence to such policies by our staff. Our policies, procedures and practices used to identify, monitor and control a variety of risks, including risks related to human error, customer defaults, market movements, technology, fraud and money-laundering, are established and reviewed by the Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. Some of our methods for managing risk are discretionary by nature and are based on internally developed controls and observed historical market behavior, and also involve reliance on standard industry practices. These methods may not adequately prevent losses, particularly as they relate to extreme market movements, which may be significantly greater than historical fluctuations in the market. Our risk-management methods also may not adequately prevent losses due to technical errors if our testing and quality control practices are not effective in preventing software or hardware failures. In addition, we may elect to adjust our risk-management policies to allow for an increase in risk tolerance, which could expose us to the risk of greater losses. Our risk-management methods rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and failure. These methods may not protect us against all risks or may protect us less than anticipated, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. Our trading activities involve significant risks and unforeseen events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We offer our clients access to a wide array of products, including forex, CFDs, spread bets, futures, futures options, OTC currency derivatives and gold and silver spot trading products. Our trading activities in these various products involve significant risks.. Through our retail and institutional forex trading activities, our principal sources of revenues and profits arise from the difference between the prices at which we buy and sell, or sell and buy, foreign currencies. We may incur trading losses for a variety of reasons, including:. • price changes in foreign currencies;. • lack of liquidity in foreign currencies in which we have positions; and. 17. Table of Contents. • inaccuracies in our proprietary pricing mechanism, or rate engine, which evaluates, monitors and assimilates market data and reevaluates our outstanding currency quotes, and is designed to publish prices reflective of prevailing market conditions throughout the trading day.. These risks may affect the prices at which we are able to sell or buy foreign currencies or may limit or restrict our ability to either resell foreign currencies that we have purchased or repurchase foreign currencies that we have sold.. In addition, competitive forces often require us to match the breadth of quotes our competitors display and to hold varying amounts and types of foreign currencies at any given time. By having to maintain positions in certain currencies, we are subjected to a high degree of risk. We may not be able to manage such risk successfully and may experience significant losses from such activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. All of the risks that pertain to our trading activities in the forex market also apply to our CFDs, spread bets, OTC currency derivatives and gold and silver spot trading products and any other products we may offer in the future. These risks include market risk, counterparty risk, liquidity risk, technology risk, third-party risk and risk of human error. In addition, unexpected events can occur that can result in great financial loss to us, including our inability to effectively integrate new products into our existing trading platforms or our failure to properly manage the market risks associated with making markets for new products. The profit margins for these products may not be similar to the profit margins we have realized with respect to forex trading.. In our futures segment, we are also exposed to debit/deficit risk with our clients for exchange-traded futures and options on futures. An adverse market move related to a client's position may result in a debit balance, which, if we are unable to collect, would result in a bad debt expense. Such an expense could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as our 4.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2018, our 4.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2020, and our 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, or ASC 470-20. ASC 470-20 requires an entity to separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments whose conversion may be settled entirely or partially in cash (such as our 4.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2018, our 4.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2020, and our 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022) in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost for non-convertible debt. The liability component of the notes is initially valued at the fair value of a similar debt instrument that does not have an associated equity component and is reflected as a liability in our Consolidated Balance Sheets in an amount equal to the fair value. The equity component of the notes is included in the additional paid-in capital section of our shareholders' equity on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and the value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component. This original issue discount is amortized to non-cash interest expense over the term of the notes, and, as a result, we record a greater amount of interest expense in current periods. Accordingly, we will report lower net income in our financial results than would have been recorded had we reflected only cash interest expense in our consolidated income statement because ASC 470-20 will require the interest expense associated with the notes to include both the current period's amortization of the original issue discount and the notes' cash coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the notes.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments whose conversion may be settled entirely or partly in cash (such as our 4.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2018, our 4.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2020, and our 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022) are currently accounted for using the treasury stock method. Under this method, the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share unless the conversion value of the notes exceeds their principal amount at the end of the relevant reporting period. If the conversion value exceeds their principal amount, then, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the notes are accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle the excess, if we elected to settle the excess in shares, were issued. The accounting standards in the future may not continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares, if any, issuable upon conversion of the notes, then our diluted earnings per share could be adversely affected.. 18. Table of Contents. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business. to pay our substantial debt.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our 4.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2018, which were issued in November 2013, our 4.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2020, which were issued in connection with our acquisition of City Index, and our 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022, which were issued in August 2017, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt because of factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. Any disruption or corruption of our proprietary technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. We rely on our proprietary technology to receive and properly process internal and external data. Any disruption in the proper functioning or any corruption of our software or erroneous or corrupted data may cause us to make erroneous trades, accept customers from jurisdictions where we do not possess the proper licenses, authorizations or permits or require us to suspend our services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. Systems failures could cause interruptions in our services or decreases in the responsiveness of our services, which could harm our business.. If our systems fail to perform, we could experience disruptions in operations, slower response times or decreased customer satisfaction. Our ability to facilitate transactions successfully and provide high quality customer service depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. These systems have in the past experienced periodic interruptions and disruptions in operations, which we believe will continue to occur from time to time. Our systems also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. We do not have fully redundant capabilities. While we currently maintain a disaster recovery plan, or DRP, which is intended to minimize service interruptions and secure data integrity, our DRP may not work effectively during an emergency. Any systems failure that causes an interruption in our services or decreases the responsiveness of our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to develop and adopt new technologies in a timely fashion, which could adversely impact our ability to compete in the markets in which we operate.. Our success in the past has largely been attributable to our proprietary technology that has taken many years to develop. If our competitors develop more advanced technologies, we may be required to devote substantial resources to the development of more advanced technology to remain competitive. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing trading systems, practices and techniques. We may not be able to keep up with these rapid changes in the future, develop new technology, realize a return on amounts invested in developing new technologies or remain competitive in the future.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, we have from time to time experienced third-party cyberattacks as well as unintentional errors that can damage our systems or expose sensitive information, and our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to future attacks by hackers or compromised due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions, such as \"distributed denial of service\" or similar cyberattacks. Any such event could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.. 19. Table of Contents. While our liability for known past events has not been material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in future legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption of our operations and the services we provide to customers, damage to our reputation or a loss of confidence in our products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we maintain cyber risk insurance, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses from any future breaches of our systems.. Products linked to cryptocurrencies could expose us to technology, regulatory and financial risks.. We have recently begun offering derivative products linked to Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies in certain jurisdictions, and intend to expand the types of products offered, the associated types of cryptocurrencies and the jurisdictions in which the products are offered. The distributed ledger technology underlying cryptocurrencies and other similar financial assets is evolving at a rapid pace and may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or have other inherent weaknesses that are not yet apparent. We may be, or may become, exposed to risks related to cryptocurrencies or other financial products that rely on distributed ledger technology through our facilitation of clients' activities involving such financial products linked to distributed ledger technology.. There is currently no broadly accepted regulatory framework for Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies, and the regulation of cryptocurrencies is developing and changing rapidly in the United States and other countries around the world. For example, in the United States, it is unclear whether many cryptocurrencies are \"securities\" under federal securities laws, and the implications for us if any of our products are linked to cryptocurrencies that are determined to be securities could be significant and adverse. In addition, some market observers have asserted that recent price increases in many cryptocurrency markets, such as that for Bitcoin, indicate the existence of a \"bubble,\" and if markets for any cryptocurrencies linked to our products suffer severe declines, our customers could experience significant losses and we could lose their business.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or may be prevented from using intellectual property necessary for our business.. We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret and unfair competition laws in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate to protect our proprietary technology, intellectual property rights and our brands. We do not have any patents. While we rigorously control access to our proprietary technology and enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our rights. Such unauthorized use and infringement would undermine the competitive benefits offered by our proprietary technology and could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. We also license or are permitted to use intellectual property or technologies owned by others. In the event such intellectual property or technology becomes material to our business, the loss of our license or our inability to otherwise continue use of such technologies would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may also face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology that is material to our business operations.. Attrition of customer accounts and failure to attract new accounts in a cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. Our customer base is primarily comprised of individual retail customers who generally trade with us for short periods. Although we offer products and tailored services designed to educate, support and retain our customers, our efforts to attract new customers or reduce the attrition rate of our existing customers may not be successful. If we are unable to maintain or increase our customer retention rates or generate a substantial number of new customers in a cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows would likely be adversely affected. Although we have spent significant financial resources on sales and marketing expenses and related expenses and plan to continue to do so, these efforts may not be cost-effective at attracting new customers. In particular, we believe that rates for desirable advertising and marketing placements, including online, search engine, print and television advertising, are likely to increase in the foreseeable future, and we may be disadvantaged relative to our larger competitors in our ability to expand or maintain our advertising and marketing commitments. Additionally, our sales and marketing methods are subject to regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, and National Futures Association, or NFA, in the United States, the Financial Conduct Authority, or FCA, in the United Kingdom and by other regulators in other jurisdictions. The rules and regulations of these organizations impose specific limitations on our sales methods, advertising and marketing. If we do not achieve our advertising objectives, our profitability and growth may be materially adversely affected.. 20. Table of Contents. We are subject to litigation risk which could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. Many aspects of our business involve risks that expose us to potential liability under federal, state and local laws, both in the U.S. and in the other jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the rules and enforcement efforts of our regulators and self-regulatory organizations worldwide. These risks include, among others, disputes over trade terms with customers and other market participants, customer losses resulting from system delay or failure and customer claims that we or our employees executed unauthorized transactions, made materially false or misleading statements or lost or diverted customer assets in our custody. We may also be subject to regulatory investigation and enforcement actions seeking to impose significant fines or other sanctions, which in turn could trigger civil litigation for our previous operations that may be deemed to have violated applicable rules and regulations in one or more jurisdictions.. The volume of claims and the amount of damages and fines claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services firms has been increasing and may continue to increase. The amounts involved in the trades we execute, together with rapid price movements in our currency pairs, can result in potentially large damage claims in any litigation resulting from such trades. Dissatisfied customers, regulators or self-regulatory organizations may make claims against us regarding the quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud, and these claims may increase as our business expands.. Litigation may also arise from disputes over the exercise of our rights with respect to customer accounts and collateral. Although our customer agreements generally provide that we may exercise such rights with respect to customer accounts and collateral as we deem reasonably necessary for our protection, our exercise of these rights may lead to claims by customers that we did so improperly.. We may also have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Even if we prevail in any litigation or enforcement proceedings against us, we could incur significant legal expenses defending against the claims, even those without merit. Moreover, because even claims without merit can damage our reputation or raise concerns among our customers, we may feel compelled to settle claims at significant cost. The initiation of any claim, proceeding or investigation against us, or an adverse resolution of any such matter, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. We may be subject to customer litigation, financial losses, regulatory sanctions and harm to our reputation as a result of employee misconduct or errors that are difficult to detect and deter.. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Our employees could execute unauthorized transactions for our customers, use customer assets improperly or without authorization, carry out improper activities on behalf of customers or use confidential customer or company information for personal or other improper purposes, as well as improperly record or otherwise try to hide improper activities from us.. In addition, employee errors, including mistakes in executing, recording or reporting transactions for customers, may cause us to enter into transactions that customers disavow and refuse to settle. Employee errors expose us to the risk of material losses until the errors are detected and the transactions are unwound or reversed. The risk of employee error or miscommunication may be greater for products that are new or have non-standardized terms. Further, such errors may be more likely to occur following any acquisitions during the integration of or migration from technological systems. Misconduct by our employees or former employees could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It may not be possible to detect or deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Our employees may also commit good faith errors that could subject us to financial claims for negligence or otherwise, as well as regulatory actions.. Misconduct by employees of our customers can also expose us to claims for financial losses or regulatory proceedings when it is alleged we or our employees knew or should have known that an employee of our customer was not authorized to undertake certain transactions. Dissatisfied customers can make claims against us, including claims for negligence, fraud, unauthorized trading, failure to supervise, breach of fiduciary duty, employee errors, intentional misconduct, unauthorized transactions by persons associated with us or failures in the processing of transactions.. 21. Table of Contents. Our customer accounts may be vulnerable to identity theft and credit card fraud.. Credit card issuers have adopted credit card security guidelines as part of their ongoing efforts to prevent identity theft and credit card fraud. We continue to work with credit card issuers to ensure that our services, including customer account maintenance, comply with these rules. When there is unauthorized access to credit card data that results in financial loss, there is the potential that we could experience reputational damage and parties could seek damages from us.. If our reputation is harmed, or the reputation of the online financial services industry as a whole is harmed, our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees may be adversely affected if our reputation is damaged. If we fail, or appear to fail, to deal with issues that may give rise to reputation risk, our business prospects could be materially adversely affected. These issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money-laundering, privacy, client data protection, record keeping, sales and trading practices, and the proper identification of the legal, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our business. Failure to appropriately address these issues could also give rise to additional legal risk to us, which could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. Any such sanctions could materially adversely affect our reputation, thereby reducing our ability to attract and retain customers and employees.. In addition, our ability to attract and retain customers may be adversely affected if the reputation of the online financial services industry as a whole or the forex industry is damaged. In recent years, a number of financial services firms have suffered significant damage to their reputations from highly publicized incidents that in turn resulted in significant and in some cases irreparable harm to their business. A perception of instability within the online financial services industry also could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers.. The loss of our key employees could materially adversely affect our business, including our ability to grow our business.. Our key employees, including Glenn Stevens, our chief executive officer, have significant experience in the forex industry and have made significant contributions to our business. In addition, other senior employees have made significant contributions to our business. Our continued success is dependent upon the retention of these and other key executive officers and employees, as well as the services provided by our trading staff, technology and programming specialists and a number of other key managerial, marketing, planning, financial, technical and operations personnel. The loss of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our ability to grow our business is dependent, to a large degree, on our ability to retain such employees.. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and we may be adversely affected if we are unable to compete effectively.. The OTC derivatives market served by our retail segment is rapidly evolving and characterized by intense competition and evolving domestic and global regulatory oversight and rules. Tighter spreads and increased competition could make our business less profitable. Our prospects may be materially adversely affected by our ability to adapt to these changes and effectively manage the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the operation of a business in a rapidly evolving industry. We face similar competitive pressure in our institutional and futures segments.. In addition, our competitors include sophisticated institutions which have larger customer bases, more established name recognition and substantially greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources than we do. These advantages may enable them, among other things, to:. • develop products and services that are similar to ours, or that are more attractive to customers than ours in one or more of our markets;. • provide products and services we do not offer;. • provide execution and clearing services that are more rapid, reliable, efficient or less expensive than ours;. • offer products and services at prices below ours to gain market share and to promote other businesses, such as forex options, futures, listed securities, CFDs, precious metals and OTC derivatives;. • adapt at a faster rate to market conditions, new technologies and customer demands;. • offer better, faster and more reliable technology;. • outbid us for desirable acquisition targets;. • more efficiently engage in and expand existing relationships with strategic alliances;. 22. Table of Contents. • market, promote and sell their products and services more effectively; and. • develop stronger relationships with customers.. These competitors, including commercial and investment banking firms, may have access to capital in greater amounts and at lower costs than we do, and, therefore, may be better able to respond to changes in the industries in which we operate, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. Access to capital is critical to our business to satisfy regulatory obligations and liquidity requirements. Among other things, access to capital determines our creditworthiness, which if perceived negatively in the market could materially impair our ability to attract customer assets. Access to capital also determines the degree to which we can expand our operations. Therefore, if we are unable to maintain or increase our capital on competitive terms, we could be at a significant competitive disadvantage, and our ability to maintain or increase our revenue and earnings could be materially impaired. Also, new or existing competitors in our markets could make it difficult for us to maintain our current market share or increase it in desirable markets. Increased competition could also result in narrowing bid/offer spreads, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Any reduction in revenues without a commensurate reduction in expenses would decrease our profitability. We may not be able to compete effectively against these firms, particularly those with greater financial resources, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. We may be unable to successfully execute our growth strategy.. As we continue to seek to grow our business, we intend to execute a growth strategy that involves a number of different initiatives designed to organically grow our product offering and customer base, increase operational efficiency, reduce revenue volatility and rationalize and leverage our global brands, while still selectively pursuing acquisition opportunities.  We also intend to continue to expand and upgrade the reliability and scalability of our transaction processing systems, network infrastructure and other aspects of our proprietary technology.  We may not be able to successfully execute all or any of these initiatives, and the results may vary from our expectations.  Further, even if these initiatives are successful, we may not be able to expand and upgrade our technology systems and infrastructure to accommodate increases in our business activity in a timely manner, which could lead to operational breakdowns and delays, loss of customers, a reduction in the growth of our customer base, increased operating expenses, financial losses, increased litigation or customer claims, regulatory sanctions or increased regulatory scrutiny.  In addition, we will need to continue to attract, hire and retain highly skilled and motivated executives and employees to both execute our growth strategy and to manage the resulting growth effectively.. We may be unable to respond to customers' demands for new services and products and our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. The market for Internet-based and mobile trading is characterized by:. • changing customer demands;. • the need to enhance existing services and products or introduce new services and products;. • evolving industry practices; and. • rapidly evolving technology solutions.. New services and products provided by our competitors may render our existing services and products less competitive. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond to customers' demands for new services and products on a timely and cost-effective basis and to adapt to address the increasingly sophisticated requirements and varied needs of our customers and prospective customers. We may not be successful in developing, introducing or marketing new services and products. In addition, our new service and product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance. Any failure on our part to anticipate or respond adequately to customer requirements or changing industry practices, or any significant delays in the development, introduction or availability of new services, products or service or product enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. Our international operations present special challenges and our failure to adequately address such challenges or compete in these markets, either directly or through joint ventures with local firms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. In 2017, we generated approximately 72.7% of our retail segment trading volume from customers outside the United States. Expanding our business in new markets is an important part of our growth strategy. Due to certain cultural, regulatory and other challenges relevant to those markets, however, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in those regions relative to local firms or to international firms that have a well-established local presence. These challenges include:. 23. Table of Contents. • less developed or mature local technological infrastructure and higher costs, which could make our products and services less attractive or accessible in emerging markets;. • difficulty in complying with the diverse regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions, which may be more burdensome, not clearly defined and subject to unexpected changes, potentially exposing us to significant compliance costs and regulatory penalties;. • less developed and established local financial and banking infrastructure, which could make our products and services less accessible;. • reduced protection of intellectual property rights;. • inability to enforce contracts;. • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including reliance on newly hired local personnel;. • tariffs and other trade barriers;. • currency and tax laws that may prevent or restrict the transfer of capital and profits among our various operations around the world; and. • time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world.. In addition, in order to be competitive in these local markets, or in some cases because of restrictions on the ability of foreign firms to do business locally, we may seek to operate through joint ventures with local firms. Doing business through joint ventures may limit our ability to control the conduct of the business and could expose us to reputational and greater operational risks. We may also face intense competition from other international firms over relatively scarce opportunities for market entry. Given the intense competition from other international brokers that are also seeking to enter these new markets, we may have difficulty finding suitable local firms willing to enter into the kinds of relationships with us that we may need to gain access to these markets. This competition could make it difficult for us to expand our business internationally as planned.. If our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations when they arise.. As a holding company, nearly all of our funds generated from operations are generated by our operating subsidiaries. Historically, we have accessed these funds through receipt of dividends from these subsidiaries. Some of our subsidiaries are subject to regulation and requirements of various regulatory bodies, including the CFTC and NFA in the United States, the FCA in the United Kingdom, the FSA, METI and MAFF in Japan, the SFC in Hong Kong, IIROC and the Ontario Securities Commission, or OSC, in Canada, MAS in Singapore, ASIC in Australia, and the CIMA in the Cayman Islands, relating to liquidity and capital standards, which may have the effect of limiting funds available for the payment of dividends to the holding company. Accordingly, if our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends and make other payments to us when needed, due to regulatory restrictions or otherwise, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations when they arise.. Our acquisition strategy may result in significant transaction expenses, integration and consolidation risks and risks associated with entering new markets, and we may be unable to profitably operate our consolidated company.. We have engaged in, and intend to continue to pursue, acquisitions of other businesses as part of our strategy to increase the range of products that we offer, especially into non-forex products, and to expand our businesses into new markets and geographies. Such acquisitions involve significant transaction expenses, including, but not limited to, fees paid to legal, financial, tax and accounting advisors, filing fees and printing costs. Acquisitions also present risks associated with offering new products or entering new markets and integrating the acquired companies. Other areas where we may face risks include:. • diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to address challenges that may arise in integrating the acquired business;. • transition of operations, users and customers onto our existing platforms or onto platforms of the acquired company;. • failure to successfully further develop the acquired business;. • failure to realize anticipated operational or financial synergies;. • implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company;. • in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries;. • liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, such as violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; and. • integration of the acquired business' accounting, human resource and other administrative systems, and coordination of trading and sales and marketing functions.. 24. Table of Contents. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, amortization expenses, impairment of goodwill and purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition or results. Additionally, any new businesses that we may acquire, once integrated with our existing operations, may not produce expected or intended results. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our future acquisitions could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or incur unanticipated liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to Regulation. Failure to comply with the rapidly evolving laws and regulations governing our businesses may result in regulatory agencies taking action against us, which could significantly harm our business.. Substantially all of our operations are conducted through subsidiaries that are regulated by governmental bodies or self-regulatory organizations. Many of the regulations we are governed by are intended to protect the public, our customers and the integrity of the markets, and not necessarily our shareholders.. Among other things, we are subject to regulation with regard to:. • sales and marketing activities, including our interaction with, and solicitation of, customers;. • trading practices, including the types of investment products we may offer;. • the methods by which customers can fund accounts with us, including the recently implemented NFA ban on the use of credit cards to fund accounts in the United States;. • treatment of customer assets, including custody, control, safekeeping and, in certain countries, segregation of our customer funds and securities;. • maintaining specified minimum amounts of capital and limiting withdrawals of funds from our regulated operating subsidiaries;. • continuing education requirements for our employees;. • anti-money laundering practices;. • record keeping and reporting; and. • supervision regarding the conduct of directors, officers and employees.. Compliance with these regulations is complicated, time consuming and expensive. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and regulations is dependent in large part on our internal legal and compliance functions, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, which we may not be able to do. Regulators and self-regulatory organizations broadly oversee the conduct of our business and several perform regular examinations of our operations to monitor our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If a regulator finds that we have failed to comply with applicable rules and regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, removal of personnel, civil litigation or other sanctions, including, in some cases, increased reporting requirements or other undertakings, revocation of our operating licenses or criminal conviction. In addition, we could incur significant legal expenses in defending ourselves against and resolving actions or investigations by such regulatory agencies. An adverse resolution of any future actions or investigations by such regulatory agencies against us could result in a negative perception of our company and cause the market price of our common stock to decline or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Regulatory changes in the jurisdictions in which we operate may disrupt our operations or require us to comply with additional regulatory requirements.. Recently, the legislative and regulatory environment in which we operate has undergone significant changes, and U.S. and foreign regulators have expressed their intention to review existing regulation in a number of areas. For example, In January 2018, the European Securities and Markets Association, or ESMA, issued a consultation paper, referred to as ESMA35-43-904. In this paper, ESMA states that it is considering the possible use of its product intervention powers under Article 40 of MiFIR to address investor protection concerning the marketing, distribution and sale of CFDs and binary options to retail investors. These proposals include the use of enhanced risk disclosures, restrictions upon the offering of promotional incentives to clients, mandatory margin close-out levels for retail clients and applying an overall cap of 30-to-1 leverage for major currency pairs and lower leverage levels for other asset classes. The FCA have indicated that any U.K. policy measures covering similar topics would take in to account such ESMA measures once finalized. In addition, the regulators in a number of European countries, such as France and Belgium, have already adopted rules and regulations that prohibit or limit offering, advertising and promoting leveraged derivative products such as CFDs, and other regulators may follow suit.  In Japan, the FSA has proposed. 25. Table of Contents. new rules that would reduce the maximum leverage that brokers can offer to 10-to-1 from the current limit of 25-to-1.  In China, recent activity suggests that the Chinese government may be looking to adopt specific regulations governing trading of foreign exchange and CFD products.  Our ability to expand our presence in various jurisdictions throughout the world will depend on the nature of future changes to the regulatory environment and our ability to continue to comply with evolving requirements. Any of these new regulatory developments, alone or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.. As we operate in many jurisdictions without local registration, licensing or authorization, we may be subject to possible enforcement action and sanction for our operations in such jurisdictions if our operations are determined to have violated regulations in those jurisdictions. Further, our growth may be limited by various restrictions and we remain at risk that we may be required to cease operations if we become subject to regulation by local government bodies.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, although a majority of our retail trading volume was attributable to customers resident in a jurisdiction where we or our white label partners are licensed, regulated or deal with customers cross-border in a manner that we believe does not require us to be regulated in that jurisdiction, a portion of our retail trading volume was attributable to customers in jurisdictions in which we or our white label partners are not currently licensed or authorized by the local government or applicable self-regulatory organization. We determine the nature and extent of services we can offer and the manner in which we conduct our business in the various jurisdictions in which we serve customers based on a variety of factors, including legal advice received from local counsel, our review of applicable U.S. and local laws and regulations and, in some cases, our discussions with local regulators. In cases in which we operate in jurisdictions based on local legal advice, we are exposed to the risk that our legal and regulatory analysis is subsequently determined by a local regulatory agency or other authority to be incorrect and that we have not been in compliance with local laws or regulations, including local licensing or authorization requirements, and to the risk that the regulatory environment in a jurisdiction may change, including in a circumstance where laws or regulations or licensing or authorization requirements that previously were not enforced become subject to enforcement.. In jurisdictions in which we are not licensed or authorized, we may be subject to a variety of restrictions regarding the manner in which we conduct our business or serve customers, including restrictions on:. • our sales and marketing activities;. • the use of a website specifically targeted to potential customers in a particular country;. • the minimum income level or financial sophistication of potential customers we may contact;. • our ability to have a physical presence in a particular country; or. • the types of services we may offer customers physically present in each country.. These restrictions may limit our ability to grow our business in any such jurisdiction or may result in increased overhead costs or degradation in our services in that jurisdiction. Consequently, we cannot assure you that our international expansion plans will be achieved.. We may be subject to possible enforcement action and penalties if we are determined to have previously offered, or currently offer, our services in violation of applicable laws and regulations in any of the markets in which we serve customers. In any such case, we may be required to cease the conduct of our business with customers in one or more jurisdictions. We may also determine that compliance with the laws or licensing, authorization or other regulatory requirements for continuing the business in one or more jurisdictions are too onerous to justify making the necessary changes. In addition, any such event could negatively impact our relationship with the regulators or self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions where we are subject to regulation.. We are required to maintain high levels of capital, which could constrain our growth and subject us to regulatory sanctions.. Our regulators have stringent rules requiring that we maintain specific minimum levels of regulatory capital in our operating subsidiaries. In the United States, as a Futures Commission Merchant, or FCM, and a Retail Forex Exchange Dealer, or RFED, we are required to maintain adjusted net capital of $20.0 million plus 5.0% of the amount of retail customer liabilities over $10.0 million, plus 10% of all liabilities owed to eligible contract participant counterparties acting as a dealer that are not an affiliate. On a worldwide basis, as of December 31, 2017, we were required to maintain approximately $112.9 million in minimum capital in the aggregate across all jurisdictions. Regulators continue to evaluate and modify regulatory capital requirements from time to time in response to market events and to improve the stability of the international financial system. Additional revisions to this framework or new capital adequacy rules applicable to us may be proposed and ultimately adopted, which could further increase our minimum capital requirements in the future.. 26. Table of Contents. Even if regulators do not change existing regulations or adopt new ones, our minimum capital requirements will generally increase in proportion to the size of the business conducted by our regulated subsidiaries. As a result, we will need to increase our regulatory capital in order to expand our operations and increase our revenue, and our inability to increase our capital on a cost-efficient basis could constrain our growth. In addition, in many cases, we are not permitted to withdraw regulatory capital maintained by our subsidiaries without prior regulatory approval or notice, which could constrain our ability to allocate our capital resources most efficiently throughout our global operations. In particular, these restrictions could adversely affect our ability to withdraw funds needed to satisfy our ongoing operating expenses, debt service and other cash needs and could affect any future decision by our Board of Directors regarding the payment of our quarterly dividends. Regulators monitor our levels of capital closely and we are required to report the amount of regulatory capital we maintain to our regulators on a regular basis, and must report any deficiencies or material declines promptly. While we expect that our current amount of regulatory capital will be sufficient to meet anticipated short-term increases in requirements, any failure to maintain the required levels of regulatory capital, or to report any capital deficiencies or material declines in capital could result in severe sanctions, including fines, censure, restrictions on our ability to conduct business and revocation of our registrations. The imposition of one or more of these sanctions could ultimately lead to our liquidation, or the liquidation of one or more of our operating subsidiaries.. Interpretation of corporate tax laws and regulations and changes in such laws and regulations, as well as adverse determinations regarding the application of such laws and regulations, could adversely affect our earnings.. We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and may be subject to different interpretations. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. In addition, changes to the Internal Revenue Code, administrative rulings or court decisions could increase our provision for income taxes and reduce our earnings.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law P.L. no 115-97 \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" which includes a broad range of tax law changes affecting businesses, including corporate tax rates, business deductions, and international tax provisions.  As the law is new and administrative tax regulations have not yet been made available with respect to many of the provisions in this new law, it is uncertain as to how these new provisions will be interpreted and applied by the Internal Revenue Service and what impact this law will have on our business.. Servicing customers via the Internet may require us to comply with the laws and regulations of each country in which we are deemed to conduct business. Failure to comply with such laws may negatively impact our financial results.. Since our services are available over the Internet in foreign countries and we have customers residing in foreign countries, foreign jurisdictions may require us to qualify to do business in their country. We believe that the number of our customers residing outside of the United States will continue to increase over time. We are required to comply with the laws and regulations of each country in which we conduct business, including laws and regulations currently in place or which may be enacted related to Internet services available to the residents of each country from service providers located elsewhere.  For example, the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission recently announced that it will require any registered investment firm in Cyprus that wishes to offer products to customers offered in another country to provide evidence of its authorization to offer products in that other country.  If one of our regulators were to adopt a similar requirement, we could be subject to increased regulatory compliance costs or may be required to modify our business and operations.  Any failure to develop effective compliance and reporting systems could result in regulatory penalties in the applicable jurisdiction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. Procedures and requirements of the Patriot Act and other anti-money laundering and know your customer regulations may expose us to significant costs or penalties.. As participants in the financial services industry, we are, and our subsidiaries are, subject to numerous laws and regulations, including the United States Patriot Act, that require that we know our customers and monitor transactions for suspicious financial activities. The cost of complying with the Patriot Act and similar laws and regulations is significant. We face the risk that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with these laws and regulations are insufficient and that we could be subject to significant criminal and civil penalties due to noncompliance. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. 27. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Third Parties. If we lose access to our prime brokers and other liquidity providers, we may be unable to provide competitive trading services, which will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. We rely on third-party financial institutions to provide us with market liquidity. We maintain relationships with a large network of liquidity providers, including established global prime brokers such as J.P. Morgan, Citibank and UBS. We depend on these relationships, particularly those with our prime brokers, for our access to a pool of liquidity to ensure that we are able to execute our customers' trades in the products we offer at the notional amounts our customers request. These liquidity providers, although under contract with us, may terminate our arrangements at any time. If we were to experience a disruption in the services provided by a liquidity provider, particularly one of our prime brokers, due to a financial, technical or other adverse development, our business could be materially adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to transfer positions and margin balances to another liquidity provider that allows us to offer competitive trading services in a timely fashion. In the event of the insolvency of one of our prime broker or other liquidity providers, we might not be able to recover any or all of the funds we have on deposit with such entity since we will be among the entity's unsecured creditors. In the event that we no longer have access to the levels of liquidity that we currently have, we may be unable to provide competitive trading services, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. A systemic market event that impacts the various market participants with whom we interact could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. We interact with various third parties through our relationships with our liquidity providers, white label partners and introducing brokers. Some of these market participants could be overleveraged. In the event of sudden, large market price movements, such market participants may not be able to meet their obligations to brokers who, in turn, may not be able to meet their obligations to their counterparties. As a result, a system collapse in the financial system could occur, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to risk of default by financial institutions that hold our funds and our customers' funds.. We have significant deposits of our own funds and our customers' funds with banks and other financial institutions, including liquidity providers. In the event of the insolvency of one of these financial institutions, we might not be able to fully recover the assets we have deposited since we will be among the institution's unsecured creditors. As a result, our business could be materially adversely affected by the loss of these funds.. Retail Forex customer funds deposited with us in the United States are not permitted to be segregated from our own funds for purposes of applicable CFTC, NFA, bankruptcy or insolvency laws and regulations, meaning such funds may be at risk of default if we were to become insolvent.. Pursuant to CFTC and NFA regulations for our U.S.-regulated subsidiaries, retail forex customer funds deposited with us are not permitted to be segregated from our own funds for purposes of applicable CFTC, NFA, bankruptcy and insolvency laws and regulations. Although we are required to designate and report specific depository accounts as accounts holding assets to cover our obligations to retail forex customers; our customers' funds may be aggregated with our own for these purposes. In the event we were to become insolvent, our customers may be unable to fully recover the funds they have deposited with us, as they will be among our unsecured creditors, and the extent to which these funds will be entitled to insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is uncertain.. We are subject to credit risk in that a customer's losses may exceed the amount of cash in their account.. Our trading operations require a commitment of our capital and involve risk of loss because of the potential that a customer's losses may exceed the amount of cash in their account. Our margin policy allows customers to leverage their account balances by trading notional amounts that may be significantly larger than their cash balances. We mark our customers' accounts to market each time a price in their portfolio changes. While this allows us to closely monitor each customer's exposure, it does not guarantee our ability to eliminate negative customer account balances prior to an adverse price change or other market events. Although we have the ability to alter our margin requirements without prior notice to our customers, this may not eliminate the risk that our access to liquidity becomes limited or market conditions, including price volatility and liquidity constraints, change faster than our ability to modify our margin requirements. Changes in market conditions or unforeseen extreme market events could result in our customers experiencing losses in excess of the funds they have deposited with us. In such an event, we may not be able to recover the negative client equity from our customers, which may result in our incurring a bad debt expense. In addition, if we cannot recover funds from our customers, we may nonetheless be required to fund. 28. Table of Contents. positions we hold with our liquidity providers or other third parties. Any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Failure of third-party systems or third-party service and software providers upon which we rely could adversely affect our business.. We rely on certain third-party computer systems or third-party service and software providers, including trading platforms, back-office systems, Internet service providers, software development partners and communications facilities. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2017, 37.2% of our retail trading volume was derived from trades utilizing the MetaTrader platform, a third-party trading platform we license that is particularly popular in the international retail trading community. Any interruption in these third-party services, or deterioration in their performance or quality, could adversely affect our business. If our arrangement with any third party is terminated, we may not be able to find alternative systems or service providers on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. Failure to maintain relationships with introducing brokers who direct new customers to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. We have relationships with introducing brokers who direct new customers to us and provide marketing and other services for these customers. In certain jurisdictions, we are only able to provide our services through introducing brokers. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 15.7% of our retail trading volume was derived from introducing brokers. Many of our relationships with introducing brokers are nonexclusive or may be terminated by the brokers on short notice. In addition, under our agreements with introducing brokers, they have no obligation to provide us with new customers or minimum levels of transaction volume. Our failure to maintain our relationships with these introducing brokers, the failure of the introducing brokers to provide us with customers or our failure to create new relationships with introducing brokers would result in a loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. To the extent any of our competitors offers more attractive compensation terms to one or more of our introducing brokers, we could lose the brokers' services or be required to increase the compensation we pay to retain the brokers. In addition, we may agree to set the compensation for one or more introducing brokers at a level where, based on the transaction volume generated by customers directed to us by such brokers, it would have been more economically attractive to seek to acquire the customers directly rather than through the introducing broker.. Our business or reputation could be harmed by introducing broker misconduct or errors that are difficult to detect and deter.. It may be perceived that we are responsible for any improper conduct by our introducing brokers, even though we do not control their activities. Many of our introducing brokers operate websites, which they use to advertise our services or direct customers to us. It is difficult for us to closely monitor the contents of their websites to ensure that the statements they make in relation to our services are accurate and comply with applicable rules and regulations. Any disciplinary action taken against any of our introducing brokers in the United States and abroad could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, damage our brand name and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile.. Our results of operations and cash flows have fluctuated significantly from period to period in the past based on a variety of factors, including some that are beyond our control, such as currency volatility and fluctuations in trading volume. These variations, along with any failure to achieve operating results that meet or exceed the expectations of our investors and the market as a whole, could result in significant price and volume fluctuations in our common stock. Other factors that could affect the market price of our common stock include:. • future announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the announcement of acquisitions;. • changes in government regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals or licensure;. • public perceptions of risks associated with our services or operations;. • developments in our industry; and. • general economic, market and political conditions and other factors that may be unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors.. 29. Table of Contents. If securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about us or our business or if they downgrade our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline.. The market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. If any analyst who covers us downgrades our stock or lowers its future stock price targets or estimates of our operating results, our stock price could decline rapidly. Furthermore, if any analyst ceases to cover us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. Our stockholder rights plan may prevent efforts by our stockholders to effect a change of control of our company or a change in our management.. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a poison pill. The rights plan is intended to deter an attempt to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. The rights plan will not prevent an acquisition that is approved by our Board of Directors. Our rights plan could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may reduce the market price of our common stock and the ability of holders of our common stock to realize any potential change of control premium.. We may be unable to obtain capital when we need it, on acceptable terms, or at all.. Our business depends on the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. Historically, we have satisfied these needs from internally generated funds and from our offering of convertible debt securities. While we currently anticipate that our available cash resources will be sufficient to meet our presently anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may need to raise additional funds to:. • support more rapid expansion;. • develop new or enhanced services and products;. • respond to competitive pressures;. • acquire new businesses, products or technologies; or. • respond to unanticipated requirements.. Additional financing may not be available when needed on terms favorable to us or at all.. The limited liquidity for our common stock could affect your ability to sell your shares at a satisfactory price.. Our common stock is relatively illiquid. As of March 1, 2018, we had 44,864,805 shares of common stock outstanding (excluding shares held by us as treasury stock). The average daily trading volume in our common stock during the 60 calendar days ended March 1, 2018 was approximately 1,833,780 shares. A more active public market for our common stock may not develop, which could continue to adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Moreover, without a large public float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile than that of other companies or the market as a whole. In addition, in the absence of an active public trading market, you may be unable to liquidate your investment in us at a satisfactory price.. Stockholders may be diluted by the future issuance of additional common stock in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions, conversion of our 4.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2018 or our 4.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2020 or our 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022, or otherwise.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 66.4 million shares of common stock authorized but unissued. As of December 31, 2017, we have reserved an aggregate of 4.0 million shares for issuance under our equity incentive compensation plans.. In addition, our 4.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2018, which were issued in November 2013, are convertible into shares of our common stock, although we may, at our election and subject to certain limitations, choose to settle any conversion by the payment or delivery of cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof. Prior to June 1, 2018, these notes may be converted only upon the occurrence of specified events set forth in the indenture pursuant to which they were issued, while on or after June 1, 2018, holders may convert their notes at any time.  During 2016 and 2017 the Company repurchased a significant portion of these Convertible Senior Notes and, as of December 31, 2017, the outstanding principal amount of the notes outstanding was $6.4 million.. 30. Table of Contents. Our 4.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2020, which were issued in April 2015 in connection with our acquisition of City Index, are convertible into shares of our common stock, although we may, at our election and subject to certain limitations, choose to settle any conversion by the payment or delivery of cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof. Prior to October 1, 2019, these notes may be converted only upon the occurrence of specified events set forth in the indenture pursuant to which they were issued, while on or after October 1, 2019, holders may convert their notes at any time.. Our 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022, which were issued in August 2017, are convertible into shares of our common stock, although we may, at our election and subject to certain limitations, choose to settle any conversion by the payment or delivery of cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof. Prior to April 15, 2022, these notes may be converted only upon the occurrence of specified events set forth in indenture pursuant to which they were issued, while on or after April 15, 2022, holders may convert their notes at any time.. Any common stock that we issue, including under our 2015 Plan, 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, or upon conversion of any of our convertible senior notes, will dilute the percentage ownership held by investors who own our common stock."
