[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to the Company. If we are not successful in the continued development, timely manufacture, and introduction of new products or product categories, demand for our products could decrease to the extent that lost sales and profits from declining segments or product categories are not entirely offset.. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales of newly introduced products. This is particularly important to replace sales and profits lost in declining segments or product categories. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. If we fail to introduce new products, or to modify or improve our existing products, in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such products. However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed, will achieve significant customer acceptance.. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations would be adversely affected. Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. Any future challenges related to new products, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our resulting loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share.. The markets for many of our products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products or secure better product positioning with retailers. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 20. Maturation or contraction of the market for wearable devices or categories of devices could adversely affect our revenue and profits.. We have experienced growth in sales and profits in our outdoor and fitness segments, which in recent years have benefited from increased sales of wearable devices. In 2017, the fitness tracker market rapidly contracted, resulting in lower sales and profits in our fitness segment. If the overall wearable device market declines, or categories of devices within the wearable device market decline significantly, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected.. The demand for personal navigation devices (PNDs) has been and continues to be reduced by replacement technologies becoming available on mobile devices and factory-installed systems in new autos, as well as by market saturation.. GPS/navigation technologies have been incorporated into competing devices such as mobile handsets, tablets, and new automobiles through factory-installed systems. Many companies are now offering navigation software for these mobile devices. The acceptance of this technology by consumers has reduced sales in the auto segment and has reduced profits in some periods. Navigation systems are also becoming more prevalent as standard and/or optional equipment on new automobiles. Increased navigation penetration on mobile handsets and in new automobiles is expected to cause further declines in sales of our portable navigation devices and could further reduce profits.. The auto segment, which represents approximately 24% of our revenues, is expected to continue to decline in 2018.. We experienced substantial growth through 2008 in the auto segment of our business as PNDs became mass-market consumer electronics in both Europe and North America. This market is declining as competing technologies emerged and market saturation occurred. This has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, lower revenues and profits for this segment.. Our annual and quarterly financial statements will reflect fluctuations in foreign currency translation.. The operation of our subsidiaries in international markets results in exposure to movements in currency exchange rates. We have experienced significant foreign currency gains and losses due to the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to certain other currencies. The potential of volatile foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the future could have a significant effect on our results of operations. We have not historically hedged our foreign currency exchange rate risks.. The currencies that typically create a majority of our exchange rate exposure are the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. Other legal entities primarily use the local currency as the functional currency. Due to the relative size of entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, fluctuations of other currencies are not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.. We translate income and expense activity at the approximate rate of exchange at the transaction date, and all assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date. Income and expense activity in a currency other than the U.S. Dollar can be impacted by exchange rate variations over time. The majority of our consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by exchange rate impacts on the significant cash, receivables, and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Such gain or loss will create variations in our earnings per share. However, because there is minimal cash impact caused by such exchange rate variations, management will continue to focus on our operating performance before the impact of foreign currency gains and losses.. 21. Changes in applicable tax laws or resolutions of tax disputes could result in adverse tax consequences to the Company.. Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes to tax laws, tax treaties, or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority in which we file income tax returns. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. Legislative proposals are being considered in Switzerland that could make significant changes in the corporate tax regime and increase the taxes applicable to us in Switzerland. Switzerland has agreed with the European Union (EU) to execute tax reform by 2019 in exchange for the EU’s waiver of counter-measures. A failure to accomplish tax reform in the agreed timeframe may result in the EU member states reasserting counter-measure provisions which could result in additional tax for the Company.. Moreover, international taxing standards continue to evolve as a result of the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) recommendations aimed at preventing perceived base erosion and profit shifting by multinational corporations. While these recommendations are not changes to tax law, the countries where we operate may implement legislation or take unilateral actions which may result in adverse effects to our income tax provision and financial statements.. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made.. Restrictions on trade, particularly on goods imported from Taiwan or the People’s Republic of China, could significantly harm our results of operations. A significant portion of our global and U.S. sales are comprised of goods assembled and manufactured in our facilities in Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China. The imposition of additional U.S. or foreign governmental controls, regulations that create new or enhanced restrictions on free trade with the U.S., or increases in tariffs on goods imported into the U.S., including goods imported from China and Taiwan, could have substantial adverse effects on our business operations, results of operations, and financial condition.. Economic, regulatory and political conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue and profits.. Our revenue and profits depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness or constrained consumer and business spending has resulted in periods of decreased revenue and in the future, could result in decreased revenue and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our retailers and OEM customers have resulted, and could result in the future, in significant bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. The United Kingdom (UK) is scheduled to formally leave the European Union on March 29, 2019. Due to the unprecedented nature of the expected withdrawal, significant uncertainty exists surrounding the terms of the expected exit. We have operations in the UK and several EU member states whose currencies, namely British Pound Sterling (GBP) and Euro, economies, taxation, and trade regulation, among other factors, could be adversely impacted by the negotiations and outcomes of the UK’s leaving the EU, which is likely to be a complicated process. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operations and financial condition.. 22. If we do not correctly anticipate demand for our products, we may not be able to secure sufficient quantities or cost-effective production of our products or we could have costly excess production or inventories.. We have generally been able to increase or decrease production to meet fluctuations in demand. However, the demand for our products depends on many factors and may be difficult to forecast. We expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand as we introduce and support a diverse product portfolio, as competition in the market for our products intensifies and as the markets for some of our products mature. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could cause the following problems in our operations:. •If demand increases beyond what we forecast, we would have to rapidly increase production. We would depend on suppliers to provide additional volumes of components and those suppliers might not be able to increase production rapidly enough to meet unexpected demand.. •Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand could result in higher costs for manufacturing and supply of components and other expenses. These higher costs could lower our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing quality could decline, which may also lower our margins and reduce customer satisfaction.. •If forecasted demand does not develop, we could have excess inventories of finished products and components, which would use cash and could lead to write-offs of some or all of the excess inventories. Lower than forecasted demand could also result in excess manufacturing capacity or reduced manufacturing efficiencies at our facilities, which could result in lower margins.. We depend on third party suppliers and licensors, some of which are sole source, for specific components and map data used in our products. Our production and business would be seriously harmed if these suppliers are not able to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available, or if the costs of components rise.. We are dependent on third party suppliers for various components used in our current products. Some of the components that we procure from third party suppliers include semiconductors and electroluminescent panels, liquid crystal displays, memory chips, batteries and microprocessors. The cost, quality and availability of components are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Some components we use are from sole source suppliers. Certain application-specific integrated circuits incorporating our proprietary designs are manufactured for us by sole source suppliers. Alternative sources may not be currently available for these sole source components.. In the past, we have experienced shortages of certain components. In addition, if there are shortages in supply of components, the costs of such components may rise. If suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components on a timely basis and if we are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if the price of the alternative source is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed.. We are also dependent on third party licensors for digital mapping data used in our products. There are only a limited number of suppliers of mapping data for some of our products and geographical regions. The largest digital map supplier for our auto products is HERE (formerly known as NAVTEQ), which is majority-owned by a consortium of Daimler AG, BMW AG, and Audi AG. Although we do not foresee difficulty in continuing to license data from HERE at reasonable pricing due to a long term license agreement with an option to extend through 2028, if we are unable to continue licensing such mapping data from HERE and other primary suppliers and are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if the nature of our relationships with primary suppliers changes detrimentally, our ability to supply mapping data for use in our products would be seriously harmed.. 23. Our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, and we could suffer loss if they infringe upon other’s rights or are infringed upon by others.. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. To this end, we hold rights to a number of patents and registered trademarks and regularly file applications to attempt to protect our rights in new technology and trademarks. However, there is no guarantee that our patent applications will become issued patents, or that our trademark applications will become registered trademarks. In addition, effective copyright, patent and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain countries. Moreover, even if approved, our patents or trademarks may thereafter be successfully challenged by others or otherwise become invalidated for a variety of reasons. Thus, any patents or trademarks we currently have or may later acquire may not provide us a significant competitive advantage.. The value of our products relies substantially on our technical innovation in fields in which there are many patent filings. Third parties may claim that we or our customers (some of whom are indemnified by us) are infringing their intellectual property rights. For example, individuals and groups may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from us or our customers. The number of these claims has increased in recent years and may continue to increase in the future. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. From time to time we receive letters alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights and we have been, and currently are, a defendant in lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Litigation concerning patents or other intellectual property is costly and time consuming. We may seek licenses from such parties, but they could refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. Such infringement claims could also cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or permanently cease the use of critical technologies or processes or the production or sale of major products.. We may become subject to significant product liability costs.. If our aviation products malfunction or contain errors or defects, airplane collisions or crashes could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury or death. Malfunctions or errors or defects in our marine navigational products could cause boats to run aground or cause other wreckage, personal injury or death. If our automotive or marine products contain defects or errors in the mapping supplied by third-party map providers or if our users do not heed our warnings about the proper use of these products, collisions or accidents could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury or death. If any of these events occurs, we could be subject to significant liability for personal injury and property damage and, under certain circumstances, could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages. We maintain insurance against accident-related risks involving our products. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages to others or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, insurance coverage may not cover awards of punitive damages and may not cover the cost of associated legal fees and defense costs, which could result in lower margins. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover the award, this could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes.. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and the outcomes can be difficult to predict. Management may not adequately reserve for a contingent liability, or we may suffer unforeseen liabilities, which could then impact the results of a financial period. A material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable which, if not expected, could harm our results of operations and financial condition.. Our products may contain undetected security vulnerabilities, which could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diverted development resources and increased warranty claims, and litigation. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products could expose them to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses, and other malicious software programs that could attack our products. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could harm our reputation and lead some customers to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases or use competitive products.. We collect, store, process, and use personal information and other customer data, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy, information security, and data protection, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business.. We collect, store, process, and use personal information and other user data. Our users’ personal information may include, among other information, names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, payment account information, height, weight, age, gender, heart rates, sleeping patterns, GPS-based location, and activity patterns. Due to the volume and types of the personal information and data we manage and the nature of our products and applications, the security features of our platform and information systems are critical. If our security measures or applications are breached, disrupted or fail, unauthorized persons may be able to obtain access to user data. If we or our third-party service providers, business partners, or third-party apps with which our users choose to share their Garmin data were to experience a breach, disruption or failure of systems compromising our users’ data or the media suggested that our security measures or those of our third-party service providers were insufficient, our brand and reputation could be adversely affected, use of our products and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation, and regulatory proceedings. Depending on the nature of the information compromised, in the event of a data breach, disruption or other unauthorized access to our user data, we may also have obligations to notify users about the incident and we may need to provide some form of remedy for the individuals affected by the incident. A growing number of legislative and regulatory bodies have adopted consumer notification requirements in the event of unauthorized access to or acquisition of certain types of personal data. Such breach notification laws continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Complying with these obligations could cause us to incur substantial costs and could increase negative publicity surrounding any incident that compromises user data. Our users may also accidentally disclose or lose control of their passwords, creating the perception that our systems or those of our third-party service providers are not secure against third-party access. Additionally, if third parties we work with, such as vendors, business partners, service providers, or developers, violate applicable laws, agreements, or our policies, such violations may also put our users’ information at risk and could in turn have an adverse effect on our business. While we maintain insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber risk.. Regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, and a new data protection regulation in the E.U. with significant fines and penalties for noncompliance will go into effect in May 2018. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are sometimes uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our interpretation and data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. 25. We rely on information technology systems for our business operations. Failures or disruptions, including security breaches or cyber attacks, to our information technology systems may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business and result of operations.. Our information technology systems allow for our daily business operations to operate efficiently and effectively. These systems assist in our business processes, including, but not limited to, communications, financial management, supply chain management, order processing, shipping and billing and providing services and support to our customers. Additionally, we electronically maintain sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers and suppliers, and some personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our facilities and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is important to our operations. A disruption to any of these processes can adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, a breach of our security systems and procedures or those of our vendors could result in significant data losses or theft of our intellectual property as well as our customers' or our employees' intellectual property, proprietary business information or personally identifiable information.  A cybersecurity breach could negatively affect our competitive position and operating results as a result of theft of our intellectual property and could negatively affect our reputation as a trusted product and service provider by adversely affecting the market's perception of the security or reliability of our products or services.. We have technology and processes in place to detect and respond to data security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through fraud, trickery or other forms of deceiving our customers and employees. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, or if such measures are implemented, and even with appropriate training conducted in support of such measures, human errors may still occur. It is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. A party, whether internal or external, who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate information.. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, to conduct additional employee training, and to engage third party security experts and consultants. Our technology errors and omissions insurance may not protect against all of the costs, liabilities, and other adverse effects arising from a security breach or system failure. If we fail to reasonably maintain the security of confidential information, we may suffer significant reputational and financial losses and our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and liquidity may be adversely affected. In addition, a system breach could result in other negative consequences, including disruption of internal operations, and may subject us to private litigation, government investigations, enforcement actions, and cause us to incur potentially significant liability, damages, or remediation costs.. Gross margins for our products may fluctuate or erode.. Gross margins in some of our segments are volatile and could decline in the future due to competitive price reductions that are not fully offset by material cost reductions. In addition, our overall gross margin may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors, including product mix, competition and unit volumes. In particular, the average selling prices of a specific product tend to decrease over that product’s life. To offset such decreases, we intend to rely primarily on component cost reduction, obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacturing of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and therefore can be sold at higher average selling prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such yield improvements or cost reductions or introduce any such new products in the future. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner or our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We may experience unique economic and political risks associated with companies that operate in Taiwan.. Our principal manufacturing facilities, where we manufacture most of our consumer products, are located in Taiwan. Relations between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China, also referred to as the PRC, and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions of Taiwan in the future could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price and the liquidity of our shares.. 26. The PRC asserts sovereignty over all of China, including Taiwan, certain other islands and all of mainland China. The PRC government does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan in certain circumstances, such as the declaration of independence by Taiwan. The United States' relations with Taiwan are governed by the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act, which signifies when the U.S. switched diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to the PRC, referred to as the \"one-China\" policy. Deviations from the \"one-China\" policy could lead to adverse changes in China-U.S. and China-Taiwan relations and could adversely affect our operations in Taiwan in the future.. Changes in our United States federal income tax classification, or that of our subsidiaries, could result in adverse tax consequences to our 10% or greater U.S. shareholders.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “2017 Act”) signed on December 22, 2017 may have changed the consequences to U.S. shareholders that own, or are considered to own, as a result of the attribution rules, ten percent or more of the voting power or value of the stock of a non-U.S. corporation (a 10% U.S. shareholder) under the U.S. Federal income tax law applicable to owners of U.S. controlled foreign corporations (“CFCs”).. Prior to the 2017 Act, the Company did not believe we, or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, were considered a CFC, which is a determination made daily based on whether the 10% U.S. shareholders together own, or are considered to own as a result of the attribution rules, more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of a non-U.S. corporation.  The 2017 Act repealed Internal Revenue Code Section 958(b)(4), which, unless clarified in future regulations or other guidance, may result in classification of certain of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries as CFCs with respect to any single 10% U.S. shareholder. This may be the result without regard to whether 10% U.S. shareholders together own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company as was the case under prior rules. The repeal is effective as of the last taxable year of CFCs beginning before January 1, 2018 and for the taxable year of 10% U.S. shareholders in which the CFCs' taxable year ends.. Additional tax consequences to 10% U.S. shareholders of a CFC may result from other provisions of the 2017 Act. For example, the 2017 Act amended Section 965 to require 10% U.S. shareholders to include in income their pro-rata share of certain earnings and profits (E&P) of CFCs.  This Section 965 inclusion is accompanied by a partial dividends-received deduction.  The 2017 Act also added Section 951A which requires a 10% U.S. shareholder of a CFC to include in income its pro-rata share of the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) of the CFC.  Finally, the 2017 Act eliminated the requirement in Section 951(a) necessitating that a foreign corporation be considered a CFC for an uninterrupted period of at least 30 days in order for a 10% U.S. shareholder to have a current income inclusion.. From time to time, the Company may elect to employ antidilutive measures such as a stock buyback program. These measures could inadvertently create additional 10% U.S. shareholders and thus trigger adverse tax consequences for those shareholders as described above. We urge shareholders to consult their individual tax advisers for advice regarding the 2017 Act revisions to the U.S. Federal income tax law applicable to owners of CFCs given the current uncertainty regarding their scope of applicability.. Failure to obtain required certifications of our products on a timely basis could harm our business.. We have certain products, especially in our aviation segment, that are subject to governmental and similar certifications before they can be sold. For example, FAA certification is required for all of our aviation products that are intended for installation in type-certificated aircraft. To the extent required, certification is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources. An inability to obtain, or excessive delay in obtaining, such certifications could have an adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products and, for certain aviation OEM products, our customers’ ability to sell airplanes. Delays in our obtaining certification for our aviation products have resulted, and may in the future result in our being required to pay compensation to our customers. Therefore, such inabilities or delays could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we cannot assure that our certified products will not be decertified. Any such decertification could have an adverse effect on our operating results.. 27. Our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if we lose our key personnel.. Our future success depends partly on the continued contribution of our key executive, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. Swiss law prohibits us from paying severance payments to our senior executive officers, which may impair our ability to recruit for these positions. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our key executive officers and do not currently intend to obtain such insurance. The loss of the services of any of our senior level management, or other key employees, could harm our business. Recruiting and retaining the skilled personnel we require to maintain and grow our market position may be difficult. For example, in some recent years there has been a nationwide shortage of qualified engineers in the United States who are necessary for us to design and develop new products, and therefore, it has sometimes been challenging to recruit such personnel. If we fail to hire and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to maintain and expand our business.. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations and seasonality.. Our operating results are difficult to predict. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. If such operating results decline, the price of our stock could decline. As we have expanded our operations, our operating expenses, particularly our research and development costs, have increased as a percentage of our sales in some periods. If revenues decrease and we continue to increase research and development costs, our operating results would be negatively affected.. Historically, our revenues have been weaker in the first quarter of each fiscal year as many of our devices are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying is traditionally lower in this quarter. Sales of certain of our fitness, outdoor, marine and automotive products tend to be higher in our second fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending for such products in the spring season and travel season. Sales of many of our consumer products also have been higher in our fourth fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending patterns on electronic devices during the holiday season. In addition, we attempt to time our new product releases to coincide with relatively higher consumer spending in the second and fourth fiscal quarters, which contributes to these seasonal variations.. We rely on independent dealers and distributors to sell our products, and disruption to these channels would harm our business.. Because we sell many of our products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory levels and support for our products. In particular, our dealers and distributors maintain significant levels of our products in their inventories. If dealers and distributors attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted.. Many of our dealers and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our dealers and distributors more favorable terms, those dealers and distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with dealers and distributors or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer.. 28. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, and our business could be materially harmed if we fail to successfully identify, complete and integrate such transactions.. We intend to evaluate acquisition opportunities and opportunities to make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or to enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, additional product or services offerings, additional distribution or marketing synergies or additional industry expertise. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates in the future, we may not be able to complete those transactions on commercially favorable terms, or at all.. Any past or future acquisition could also result in difficulties assimilating acquired employees, operations, and products and diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities. Integration of acquired companies may result in problems related to integration of technology and inexperienced management teams. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. We may not successfully integrate internal controls, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters, operations, personnel or products related to acquisitions we may make in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such transactions, our business could be materially harmed.. There is uncertainty as to our shareholders’ ability to enforce certain foreign civil liabilities in Switzerland and Taiwan.. We are a Swiss company and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States, particularly in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon us. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland or Taiwan would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in Switzerland or Taiwan against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof.. A shut down of Federal Aviation Administration operations would harm our business.. Any failure of the United States Congress to appropriate funds for FAA operations that results in any shut down of FAA operations or furloughing of FAA employees could result in delays in the required FAA certification of our avionics products and in the production, sale and registration of aircraft that use our avionics products. Such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Many of our products rely on the Global Positioning System and other Global Satellite Navigation Systems (GNSS).. The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense. The Department of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals. These satellites and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. The satellites were originally designed to have lives of 7.5 years and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. However, of the current deployment of satellites in place, some have been operating for more than 20 years.. To repair damaged or malfunctioning satellites is currently not economically feasible. If a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, there could be a substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites may impair the current utility of the GPS system and the growth of current and additional market opportunities. GPS satellites and ground control segments are being modernized. GPS modernization software updates can cause problems. We depend on public access to open technical specifications in advance of GPS updates.. 29. GPS is operated by the U.S. Government, which is committed to maintenance and improvement of GPS; however, if the policy were to change, and GPS were no longer supported by the U.S. Government, or if user fees were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Some of our products also use signals from Satellite Based Augmentation Systems (SBAS) that augment GPS, such as the U.S. Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS), Japanese MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS), and European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS). Any curtailment of SBAS operating capability could result in decreased user capability for many of our aviation products, thereby impacting our markets.. Some of our products also use satellite signals from the Russian GLONASS System. Other countries, including China and India, are in the process of creating their own GNSS systems, and we either have developed or will develop products which use GNSS signals from these systems. The European community is developing an independent radio navigation satellite system, known as Galileo. National or European authorities may provide preferential access to signals to companies associated with their markets, including our competitors, which could harm our competitive position. Use of non-US GNSS signals may also be subject to FCC waiver requirements and to restrictions based upon international trade or geopolitical considerations. If we are unable to develop timely and competitive commercial products using these systems, or obtain timely and equal access to service signals, it could result in lost revenue.. Any of the foregoing factors could affect the willingness of buyers of our products to select Global Positioning System-based products instead of products based on competing technologies.. Our business is subject to disruptions and uncertainties caused by geopolitical instability, war or terrorism.. Acts of war or acts of terrorism, especially any directed at the GPS signals, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause a redeployment of the satellites used in GPS or interruptions of the system. To the extent that such interruptions have an effect on sales of our products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. A shut down of airspace or imposition of restrictions on general aviation would harm our business. The shutdown of airspace could cause reduced sales of our general aviation products and delays in the shipment of our products manufactured in our Taiwan manufacturing facilities to our global distribution facilities, thereby adversely affecting our ability to supply new and existing products to our dealers and distributors.. Any reallocation or repurposing of radio frequency spectrum could cause harmful interference with the reception of Global Positioning System signals. This interference could harm our business.. Our Global Positioning System technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (SPS) provided by the U.S. Government’s Global Positioning System satellites. The Global Positioning System operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference.  Each country also has regulatory authority on how each band is used.  In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) share responsibility for radio frequency allocations and spectrum usage regulations.. Any ITU or national reallocation of radio frequency spectrum, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, or other modifications of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products and have significant negative impacts on our business and our customers.. 30. Natural disasters, catastrophic events, or climate change could affect our financial results.. Natural disasters and extreme weather events, such as tsunamis or earthquakes, could occur in a region where we have a manufacturing or warehousing facility which would cause disruptions in our business operations or loss of inventory. If our backup and recovery plans are not sufficient to minimize business disruption and/or if our insurance is not sufficient to recover the costs associated with these types of events, our financial results could be adversely affected.. Climate change can also pose a risk to our business due to evolving regulatory and legislative measures surrounding climate change. The Environmental Protection Agency has begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the authority granted to it under the Clean Air Act. At the federal legislative level, Congressional passage of legislation adopting some form of federal mandatory greenhouse gas emission reduction, such as a nationwide cap-and-trade program, does not appear likely at this time, although it could be adopted at a future date. It is also possible that the U.S. Congress may pass alternative climate change bills that do not mandate a nationwide cap-and-trade program and instead focus on promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency, which could increase the cost of doing business.. Because it is uncertain what laws and regulations will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Risks Relating to Our Shares. The volatility of our stock price could adversely affect investment in our common shares.. The market price of our shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile.  During 2017, the closing price of our shares ranged from a low of $47.35 to a high of $62.92. A variety of factors could cause the price of our shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including:. ·new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;. ·general conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations in interest rates and global currency exchange rates;. ·announcements of technological innovations;. ·product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions;. ·developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers;. ·the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components, such as flash memory and liquid crystal displays, used in our products;. ·quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results;. ·changes in applicable tax laws and tax rates;. ·developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation;. ·announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, our competitors, our suppliers or the markets in which we compete;. ·research reports or opinions issued by securities analysts or brokerage houses related to Garmin, our competitors, our suppliers or our customers;. ·any significant acts of terrorism against the United States, Taiwan or significant markets where we sell our products; and. ·other factors as discussed in the previously listed risks.. 31. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies.  Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. Our officers and directors exert substantial influence over us.. As of January 17, 2018, members of our Board of Directors, and our executive officers, and Gary Burrell (our co-founder and former executive officer and member of our Board of Directors), together with members of their families and entities that may be deemed affiliates of or related to such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 39.99% of our outstanding shares. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions and shareholder proposals. This level of ownership may have a significant effect in delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Garmin and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other holders of our common shares.. The rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law.. The rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law and Garmin Ltd.’s articles of association. The rights of shareholders under Swiss law differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law allows our shareholders acting at a shareholders’ meeting to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors without approval of a shareholders’ meeting, but this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital and must be renewed at a shareholders’ meeting at least every two years for it to continue to be available. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, including the exceptions described in our articles of association, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of some other jurisdictions. Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders certain corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority in some other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law provides that dividends and other distributions must be approved by shareholders at the general meeting of shareholders. These Swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility, and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders.. We have limited capital reserves from which to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting our shareholders Swiss withholding tax.. If we are unable to make distributions, if any, through a reduction of par value or to pay dividends, if any, out of qualifying capital contribution reserves, then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at a rate of 35%. Over the long term, the amount of par value and qualifying capital contribution reserves available for us to use for par value reductions or dividends will be limited.  The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A U.S. holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting stock, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve a reduction in par value or a dividend out of qualifying capital contribution reserves, that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements for a reduction in par value, or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future or that a change in Swiss law will not adversely affect us or our shareholders, in particular as a result of distributions out of qualifying capital contribution reserves becoming subject to additional corporate law or other restrictions. If we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction in par value or to pay a dividend out of qualifying capital contribution reserves, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Swiss withholding taxes. 32. Under current Swiss tax law, repurchases of shares for the purposes of capital reduction are treated as a partial liquidation subject to 35% Swiss withholding tax on the difference between the par value and the repurchase price. However, the portion of the repurchase price that is attributed to qualifying capital contribution reserves of the shares repurchased will not be subject to the Swiss withholding tax. Therefore, repurchase of our own shares further limits the amount of qualifying capital reserves available for distributions to shareholders free of Swiss withholding taxes.  No partial liquidation treatment applies and no withholding tax is triggered if the shares are not repurchased for cancellation but held by us as treasury shares to the extent sufficient qualifying capital reserves are available. However, should we not resell such treasury shares within six years and there is not sufficient qualifying capital contribution reserves, the withholding tax becomes due at the end of the six-year period.. We may follow a share repurchase process for future share repurchases, if any, similar to a \"second trading line\" on the SIX Swiss Exchange in which Swiss institutional investors buy shares on the open market and sell these shares to us and are generally able to receive a refund of the Swiss withholding tax. However, if we are unable to use this process successfully, we may not be able to repurchase shares for the purposes of capital reduction without subjecting our shareholders to Swiss withholding taxes if and to the extent that the repurchase of shares is made out of retained earnings or other taxable reserves. No withholding tax would be applicable if and to the extent that qualifying capital contribution reserves are attributable to the share repurchase.. We have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase and hold our own shares.. Under Swiss law we have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase and hold our own shares. We and our subsidiaries may only repurchase and hold our own shares to the extent that sufficient freely distributable reserves (including contributed surplus as determined for Swiss tax and statutory purposes) are available. The aggregate par value of our registered shares held by us and our subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of our registered share capital. We may repurchase our registered shares beyond the statutory limit of 10%, however, if our share-holders have adopted a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders authorizing the board of directors to repurchase registered shares in an amount in excess of 10% and the repurchased shares are dedicated for cancellation. Our ability to repurchase and hold our own shares has been a component of our capital management and shareholder return practices, and any restriction on our ability to repurchase our shares could make our stock less attractive to investors."
