[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions and trends. The following sections discuss many, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties that may affect our future performance, but is not intended to be all-inclusive. Any of the risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, and could therefore have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and negatively affect your investment.. Risks related to our business. On  April 5, 2017, Gartner acquired CEB Inc. (\"CEB\"). References to \"heritage Gartner\" operating results and business measurements refer to Gartner excluding CEB. References to CEB refer to the operating results and business measurements of CEB subsequent to the acquisition.. Our operating results could be negatively impacted by global economic conditions. Our business is impacted by general economic conditions and trends, in the United States and abroad. In its January 2018 Global Economic Prospects report, the World Bank. 6. notes that global growth is expected to continue while substantial downside risks are present, to include financial stress, protectionism, and geopolitical change. We also believe that terrorist attacks around the world have added additional uncertainty and risks to the economic environment. A downturn in growth could negatively and materially affect future demand for our products and services in general, in certain geographic regions, or in particular countries or industry sectors. Such difficulties could include the ability to maintain client retention, wallet retention and consulting utilization rates, achieve contract value and consulting backlog growth, and attract attendees and exhibitors to our events. Such developments could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We face direct competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services, including information available on the Internet free of charge. We also compete indirectly against consulting firms and other information providers, including electronic and print media companies, some of which may have greater financial, information gathering and marketing resources than we do. These indirect competitors could also choose to compete directly with us in the future. In addition, low barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. As a result, new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. Additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. Furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of research and analysis, timely delivery of information, customer service, the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs for information and analysis, or price.. We may not be able to maintain the quality of our existing products and services. We operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality and timely research and analysis to our clients. Any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information and advice that is useful to our clients could have a material adverse effect on future business and operating results. Further, if our published data, opinions or viewpoints prove to be wrong, lack independence, or are not substantiated by appropriate research, our reputation may suffer and demand for our products and services may decline. In addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner via the Internet and mobile applications. Failure to maintain state of the art electronic delivery capabilities could materially adversely affect our future business and operating results.. We may not be able to enhance and develop our existing products and services, or introduce the new products and services that are needed to remain competitive. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing needs for information and analysis. The development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process. Nonetheless, to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to anticipate the needs of our client organizations, develop, enhance and improve our existing as well as new products and services to address those needs, deliver all products and services in a timely, user-friendly and state of the art manner, and appropriately position and price new products and services relative to the marketplace and our costs of developing them. Any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Additionally, significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position.. As a result of the acquisition of CEB in 2017, a portion of our revenue is now derived from products, services, and tools that relate to human talent assessment, management, and development, which were new products for the Company. Revenue from these activities is concentrated in our Talent Assessment & Other business segment. Revenue from these activities is affected in part by our ability to create new offerings as demand changes, and our ability to support existing offerings. If we fail to successfully manage and grow this new business, our operating results, financial condition, and liquidity could be negatively impacted. Also, economic downturns in certain segments or geographic regions may cause reductions in discretionary spending by our customers, which may adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow the volume of business.. Technology is rapidly evolving, and if we do not continue to develop new product and service offerings in response to these changes, our business could suffer. Disruptive technologies are rapidly changing the environment in which we, our clients, and our competitors operate. We will need to continue to respond to these changes by enhancing our product and service offerings in order to maintain our competitive position. However, we may not be successful in responding to these forces and enhance our products on a timely basis, and any enhancements we develop may not adequately address the changing needs of our clients. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce in a timely manner new or enhanced existing offerings that address the changing needs of this constantly evolving marketplace. Failure to develop products that meet the needs of our clients in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position.. 7. Our Research business depends on renewals of subscription-based services and sales of new subscription-based services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our failure to renew at historical rates or generate new sales of such services could lead to a decrease in our revenues. A large portion of our success depends on our ability to generate renewals of our subscription-based research products and services and new sales of such products and services, both to new clients and existing clients. These products and services constituted approximately 70% and 71% of our total revenues for 2017 and 2016, respectively. Generating new sales of our subscription-based products and services, both to new and existing clients, is a challenging, costly, and often time consuming process. If we are unable to generate new sales, due to competition or other factors, our revenues will be adversely affected.. Our research subscription contracts are typically for 12-months or longer. Our ability to maintain contract renewals is subject to numerous factors, including the following:. • delivering high-quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients;. • understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and. • providing products and services of the quality and timeliness necessary to withstand competition.. Additionally, as we continue to adjust our products and service offerings to meet our clients' continuing needs, we may shift the type and pricing of our products which may impact client renewal rates. While our heritage Research client retention rate was 84% at both December 31, 2017 and 2016, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to maintain this rate of client renewals.. Our Consulting business depends on non-recurring engagements and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. Consulting segment revenues constituted 10% of our total revenues in 2017 and 14% in 2016. Consulting engagements typically are project-based and non-recurring. Our ability to replace consulting engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following:. • delivering consistent, high-quality consulting services to our clients;. • tailoring our consulting services to the changing needs of our clients; and. • our ability to match the skills and competencies of our consulting staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential consulting engagements.. Any material decline in our ability to replace consulting engagements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our financial condition. In addition, revenue from our contract optimization business can fluctuate significantly from period to period and is not predictable.. The profitability and success of our conferences, symposia and events could be adversely affected by external factors beyond our control. Our Events business constituted 10% of our total revenues in 2017 and 11% in 2016. The market for desirable dates and locations for conferences, symposia and events is highly competitive. If we cannot secure desirable dates and suitable venues for our conferences, symposia and events their profitability could suffer, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, because our events are scheduled in advance and held at specific locations, the success of these events can be affected by circumstances outside of our control, such as labor strikes, transportation shutdowns and travel restrictions, economic slowdowns, reductions in government spending, geopolitical crises, terrorist attacks, war, weather, natural disasters, communicable diseases, and other occurrences impacting the global, regional, or national economies, the occurrence of any of which could negatively impact the success of the event. We also face the challenge of procuring venues that are sizeable enough at a reasonable cost to accommodate some of our major events.. Our sales to governments are subject to appropriations and may be terminated. We derive significant revenues from research and consulting contracts with the United States government and its respective agencies, numerous state and local governments and their respective agencies, and foreign governments and their agencies. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, approximately $435.0 million and $355.0 million, respectively, of our contracts were attributable to government entities. Our U.S. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the U.S. Congress to fund the agencies contracting for our services. Additionally, our contracts at the state and local levels, as well as foreign government contracts, are subject to various governmental authorizations and funding approvals and mechanisms. In general, most if not all of these contracts may be terminated at any time by the government entity without cause or penalty (\"termination for convenience\"). In addition, contracts with U.S. federal, state and local, and foreign governments and their respective agencies are subject to increasingly complex bidding procedures, compliance. 8. requirements and intense competition. Should appropriations for the governments and agencies that contract with us be curtailed, or should our government contracts be terminated for convenience, we may experience a significant loss of revenues.. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel which could jeopardize our future growth plans, as well as the quality of our products and services. Our success depends heavily upon the quality of our senior management, research analysts, consultants, sales and other key personnel. We face competition for qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. Additionally, some of the personnel that we attempt to hire are subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. Any inability to retain key personnel, or to hire and train additional qualified personnel to support the evolving needs of clients or the projected growth in our business, could materially adversely affect the quality of our products and services, as well as future business and operating results.. We may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. We believe that our \"Gartner\" brand, in particular our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. We may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the Gartner brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, and expend additional sums to protect our brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. If we fail to effectively promote, maintain, and protect  the Gartner brand, or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be materially adversely impacted.. Our international operations expose us to a variety of operational and other risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. We have clients in more than 100 countries and a substantial amount of our revenue is earned outside of the United States. Our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights or against economic espionage in international jurisdictions. Furthermore, we rely on local distributors or sales agents in some international locations. If any of these arrangements are terminated by our agent or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local distributor or sales agent may not want to continue to do business with us or our new agent.. Our business and operations may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically penetrated the economy. It is our policy to comply, and to require our local partners and those with whom we do business to comply, with all applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.K. Bribery Act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. Our business and reputation may be adversely affected if we fail to comply with such laws.. We are exposed to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates from our international operations. For both the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, 42% of our revenues were derived from sales outside of the United States. Revenues earned outside the U.S. are typically transacted in local currencies, which may fluctuate significantly against the U.S. dollar. While we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. Additionally, our effective tax rate is increased as the U.S dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, which could impact our operating results.. Natural disasters, terrorist acts, war, and other geopolitical events could disrupt our business. We operate in numerous U.S. and international locations, and we have offices in a number of major cities across the globe. A major weather event, earthquake, flood, drought, volcanic activity, disease, or other catastrophic natural disaster could significantly disrupt our operations. In addition, acts of civil unrest, failure of critical infrastructure, terrorism, armed conflict, war, and abrupt political change, as well as responses by various governments and the international community to such acts, can have a negative effect on our business. Such events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt or shut down the Internet or other critical client-facing and business processes, impede the travel of our personnel and clients, dislocate our critical internal functions and personnel, and in general harm our ability to conduct normal business operations, any of which can negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. Such events could also impact the timing and budget decisions of our clients, which could materially adversely affect our business.. Privacy concerns could damage our reputation and deter current and potential clients from using our products and services or attending our events. Concerns relating to global data privacy have the potential to damage our reputation and deter current and prospective clients from using our products and services or attending our events. In the ordinary course of our business and in accordance with applicable laws, we collect personal information (i) from our employees (ii) from the users of our products and services, including event attendees; and (iii) from prospective clients. We collect only basic personal information from our clients. 9. and prospects. While we believe our overall data privacy procedures are adequate, the theft or loss of such data, or concerns about our practices, even if unfounded, with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of this personal information or other data protection related matters could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our operating results. Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the disclosure of our users' personal data could seriously limit the consumption of our products and services and the attendance at our events, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business.. In addition, new data protection laws and regulations, particularly the new European Union General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") (effective in May 2018), pose increasingly complex compliance challenges. We are closely monitoring these legal developments and are working towards timely GDPR compliance. In the meantime, Gartner will continue to maintain and rely upon our comprehensive global data protection compliance program, which includes administrative, technical, and physical controls to safeguard our associates' and clients' personal data. The interpretation and application of these laws in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere are often uncertain, inconsistent and ever changing. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. Internet and critical internal computer system failures, cyber-attacks, or compromises of our systems or security could damage our reputation and harm our business. A significant portion of our business is conducted over the Internet and we rely heavily on computer systems to conduct our operations. Individuals, groups, and state-sponsored organizations may take steps that pose threats to our operations, our computer systems, our employees, and our customers. They may develop and deploy malicious software to gain access to our networks and attempt to steal confidential information, launch distributed denial of service attacks, or attempt other coordinated disruptions. These threats are constantly evolving and becoming more sophisticated, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. A cyber-attack, widespread Internet failure or Internet access limitations, or disruption of our critical information technology systems through denial of service, viruses, or other events could cause delays in initiating or completing sales, impede delivery of our products and services to our clients, disrupt other critical client-facing or business processes, or dislocate our critical internal functions. Such events could significantly harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and negatively impact our financial results.. We take steps to secure our management information systems, including our computer systems, intranet, proprietary websites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, and we carefully scrutinize the security of outsourced website and service providers prior to retaining their services. However, the security measures implemented by us or by our outside service providers may not be effective and our systems (and those of our outside service providers) may be vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential sources and events, including unauthorized access or security breaches, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, power loss, or other disruptive events. Our reputation, brand, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or other technology-related catastrophe, our operations are disrupted or shutdown; our confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee, or other confidential information; we are required to dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation, regulatory action and scrutiny or other costs as a result of these occurrences.. We may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. Our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to maintain data centers and equipment, to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites, and to deliver our products and services through emerging channels, such as mobile applications. However, any inefficiencies or operational failures could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, potentially harming our financial condition and operating results.. Our outstanding debt obligations could negatively impact our financial condition and future operating results.  As of December 31, 2017,  the Company had outstanding debt of $2.5 billion under its 2016 term loan and revolving credit facility (the \"2016 Credit Agreement\") and $800.0 million of Senior Notes Due 2025 (\"Senior Notes\"). The 2016 Credit Agreement was amended three times during 2017 and it currently provides for a $1.5 billion Term loan A facility, a $500.0 million Term loan B facility, and a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility. The Company borrowed significant amounts in 2017 under the 2016 Credit Agreement, and issued the Senior Notes, in conjunction with the CEB acquisition. Additional information regarding the 2016 Credit Facility and the Senior Notes is included in Note 5  -  Debt in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The debt service requirements of these credit arrangements could impair our future financial condition and operating results. In addition, the affirmative, negative and financial covenants of the 2016 Credit Agreement, as amended, as well as the covenants related to the Senior Notes, could limit our future financial flexibility. A failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all amounts outstanding, which could materially impact our financial condition unless accommodations could be. 10. negotiated with our lenders and Noteholders. No assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those currently. The outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital.. We may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy and stock repurchase program, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital, including acquisitions. If our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings or issue debt. Prevailing credit and debt market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would further restrict our operations.. If we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. Our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. The laws of certain countries, particularly in emerging markets, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Additionally, there can be no assurance that another party will not assert that we have infringed its intellectual property rights.. Our employees are subject to restrictive covenant agreements (which include restrictions on employees' ability to compete and solicit customers and employees) and assignment of invention agreements, to the extent permitted under applicable law. When the period expires relating to the particular restriction, former employees may compete against us. If a former employee violates the provisions of his/her restrictive covenant agreement, we seek to enforce the restrictions but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts.. We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions and strategic investments, which could involve substantial risks. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and services or otherwise support our growth objectives. The risks involved in each acquisition or investment include the possibility of paying more than the value we derive from the acquisition, dilution of the interests of our current stockholders should we issue stock in the acquisition, decreased working capital, increased indebtedness, the assumption of undisclosed liabilities and unknown and unforeseen risks, the ability to retain key personnel of the acquired company, the inability to integrate the business of the acquired company, the time to train the sales force to market and sell the products of the acquired business, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our day to day business. The realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business. Additionally, we face competition in identifying acquisition targets and consummating acquisitions.. Our business has increased significantly with the CEB acquisition. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to integrate its operations as well as manage the overall expanded business, which poses substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations, new products, and associated increased cost and complexity. A failure to realize the expected benefits from the acquisition or successfully manage the expanded operation could adversely and materially affect our future business and operating results.. We face risks related to leased office space. With the CEB acquisition we assumed a significant amount of additional leased office space, in particular in Arlington, Virginia, which formerly served as CEB's headquarters location, and where the majority of its staff is currently located. Gartner is continuing with a plan originally approved by CEB before the acquisition to relocate and consolidate its office space in Arlington into a new,  nearby building, and sublease the entirety of the existing space. The consolidation into the new building is expected to be completed in the first half of 2018 with the first set of moves already completed in December 2017. We have also made significant progress in subleasing the existing space and we expect to sublease all of the remaining space during 2018. However, if we are unable to sublease the remaining existing space at acceptable rents or at all, or if subtenants default on their sublease obligation with us or otherwise terminate the subleases with us, we may experience a loss of planned sublease rental income, which could result in a material charge which could adversely affect our operating results.. We are also in the process of adding new leased space. If the new spaces are not completed on schedule, or if the landlord defaults on its commitments and obligations pursuant to the new leases, we may incur additional expenses. In addition, unanticipated difficulties in initiating operations in this new space, including construction delays, IT system interruptions, or other infrastructure. 11. support problems, could result in a delay in moving into the new space, resulting in a loss of employee and operational productivity and a loss of revenue and/or additional expenses, which could also have an adverse, material impact on our operating results.. We face risks related to litigation. We are, and in the future may be, subject to a variety of legal actions, such as employment, breach of contract, intellectual property-related, and business torts, including claims of unfair trade practices and misappropriation of trade secrets. Given the nature of our business, we are also subject to defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. Regardless of the merits and despite vigorous efforts to defend any such claim can affect our reputation, and responding to any such claim could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into settlements, royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on reasonable terms. If a claim is made against us which we cannot defend or resolve on reasonable terms, our business, brand, and financial results could be materially adversely affected.. We face risks related to taxation. We are a global company and a substantial amount of our earnings is generated outside of the United States and taxed at rates less than the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate. Our effective tax rate, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions with higher statutory tax rates and, conversely, lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and/or by changes in tax laws or accounting principles and their interpretation by relevant authorities.. At the present time, the United States and other countries where we do business have either changed or are actively considering changes in their tax, accounting and other related laws. In the United States, recently enacted Tax Reform introduced several new complicated tax laws which could unfavorably impact our future effective tax rate. In 2014, Ireland modified its tax residency rules. While these changes are not effective until 2021 for many companies with Irish resident operations, including Gartner, the new rules could increase our effective tax rate at that future date. Likewise, during 2015, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (\"OECD\") released final reports on various actions items associated with its initiative to prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (\"BEPS\"). Numerous countries have and continue to propose unilateral tax law changes intended to address BEPS. The future enactment by various governments of these and other proposals could significantly increase our tax obligations in many countries where we do business. These actual, potential, and other changes, both individually and collectively, could materially increase our effective tax rate and negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, as regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, and as we gather more information and perform additional analysis, the impact of the new law may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our results of operations and financial position in the future.. In addition, our tax filings for various years are subject to examination by domestic and international taxing authorities and, during the ordinary course of business, we are under audit by various tax authorities. Recent and future actions on the part of the OECD and various governments have increased scrutiny of our tax filings. Although we believe that our tax filings and related accruals are reasonable, the final resolution of tax audits may be materially different from what is reflected in our historical tax provisions and accruals and could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows, particularly in major taxing jurisdictions including, but not limited to: the United States, Ireland, India, Canada, United Kingdom, Japan, and France.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $194.0 million of accumulated undistributed earnings in our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Our cash and cash equivalents are held in numerous locations throughout the world. At December 31, 2017, 97% of our cash and cash equivalents was held overseas, with a substantial portion representing accumulated undistributed earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Under U.S. GAAP, no provision for income taxes that may result from the remittance of accumulated undistributed foreign earnings is required if the Company intends to reinvest such earnings overseas indefinitely. Our current liquidity requirements do not demonstrate a need to repatriate accumulated undistributed foreign earnings to fund our U.S. operations or otherwise satisfy the liquidity needs of our U.S. operations. Accordingly, the Company intends to continue to reinvest substantially all of its accumulated undistributed foreign earnings, except in instances in which the repatriation of those earnings would result in minimal additional tax. As a result, we have not recognized income tax expense on the amounts deemed permanently reinvested. However, with the recently enacted U.S Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, we envision that the income tax that would be payable if such earnings were repatriated would be minimal.. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. We operate in a number of countries, including emerging markets, and as a result we are required to comply with numerous, and in many cases, changing international and U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations. As a result, we have  a corporate compliance program which includes the creation of appropriate policies defining employee behavior that mandate adherence to laws, employee training, annual affirmations, monitoring and enforcement. However, if any employee fails to comply with, or intentionally disregards, any of these laws, regulations or our policies, a range of liabilities could result for the employee and for. 12. the Company, including, but not limited to, significant penalties and fines, sanctions and/or litigation, and the expenses associated with defending and resolving any of the foregoing, any of which could have a negative impact on our reputation and business.. Risks related to our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and/or the financial guidance we have given may not meet the expectations of investors, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including the timing of the execution of research contracts, the extent of completion of consulting engagements, the timing of symposia and other events, the amount of new business generated, the mix of domestic and international business, currency fluctuations, changes in market demand for our products and services, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, competition in our industry, the impact of our acquisitions, and general economic conditions. An inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow, and achieve our forecasts, may impact our operating and other activities. The potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. Furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of investors or the financial guidance we have previously provided. If this occurs, the price of our common stock could decline.. Our stock price may be impacted by factors outside of our control and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. The price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, geo-political events, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts' recommendations regarding our securities and our performance relative to securities analysts' expectations for any quarterly period, as well as other factors outside of our control including any and all factors that move the securities markets generally. These factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Future sales or issuances of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our current stockholders, or the threat that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock could also lower the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, we have various equity incentive plans that provide for awards in the form of stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards which have the effect of adding shares of common stock into the public market. We have a board-approved share repurchase program and at December 31, 2017, approximately $1.1 billion remained available for share purchases under this program. No assurance can be given that we will continue these share repurchase activities in the future when the program is completed, or in the event that the price of our common stock reaches levels at which repurchases are not accretive.. Future sales of our common stock from grants and awards could lower our stock price. As of December 31, 2017, the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to outstanding grants and awards under our equity incentive plans was approximately 2.8 million shares (approximately 1.3 million of which have vested). In addition, at the present time, approximately 5.6 million shares may be issued in connection with future awards under our equity incentive plans. Shares of common stock issued under these plans are freely transferable and have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), except for any shares held by affiliates (as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) which are subject to certain limitations. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock.. Interests of certain of our significant stockholders may conflict with yours. To our knowledge, as of the date hereof, and based upon publicly-available SEC filings, five institutional investors each presently hold over 5% of our common stock. While no stockholder or institutional investor individually holds a majority of our outstanding shares, these significant stockholders may be able, either individually or acting together, to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, adoption or amendment of equity plans and approval of significant transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and sales or purchases of assets. In addition, in the event of a proposed acquisition of the Company by a third party, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control in us. Accordingly, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, or otherwise be in the best interests of us or all stockholders.. Our anti-takeover protections may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors. These provisions include: (i) the ability of our Board of Directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; (ii) advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; and (iii) the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law. These provisions could. 13. discourage or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock."
