[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Factors That May Affect Our Business and Future Results. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations.  Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity.. We face competition that may reduce our market share and harm our financial performance.. There is substantial competition in the telecommunications and entertainment industries.  Through mergers, various service integration strategies, and business alliances, major providers are striving to strengthen their competitive positions.  We face increased wireless services competition from national carriers in the Alaska market and increasing video services competition from DBS providers and over-the-top content providers who are often able to offer more flexible subscription packages and exclusive content.. We expect competition to increase as a result of the rapid development of new technologies, services and products.  We cannot predict which of many possible future technologies, products or services will be important to maintain our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide these technologies, products or services.  Our ability to compete successfully will depend on marketing and on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, economic conditions and pricing strategies by competitors.  To the extent we do. 14. not keep pace with technological advances or fail to timely respond to changes in competitive factors in our industry and in our markets, we could lose market share or experience a decline in our revenue and net income. Competitive conditions create a risk of market share loss and the risk that customers shift to less profitable lower margin services.  Competitive pressures also create challenges for our ability to grow new businesses or introduce new services successfully and execute our business plan.  We also face the risk of potential price cuts by our competitors that could materially adversely affect our market share and gross margins.. Our wholesale customers including our major roaming customers may construct facilities in locations where they contract with us to use our network to provide service on their behalf.  We would experience a decline in revenue and net income if any of our wholesale customers constructed or expanded their existing networks in places where service is provided on our network. Some of our wholesale customers have greater access to financial, technical, and other resources than we do. We expect to continue to offer competitive alternatives to such customers in order to retain significant traffic on our network. We cannot predict whether such negotiations will be successful. Our inability to negotiate such contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. For more information about competition, see the section titled \"Competition\" included in \"Part 1  -  Item 1  -  Business  -  Description of our Business.\". If we experience low or negative rates of subscriber acquisition or high rates of turnover, our financial performance will be impaired.. We are in the business of selling communications and entertainment services to subscribers, and our economic success is based on our ability to retain current subscribers and attract new subscribers. If we are unable to retain and attract subscribers, our financial performance will be impaired.  Our rates of subscriber acquisition and turnover are affected by a number of competitive factors including the size of our service areas, network performance and reliability issues, our device and service offerings, subscribers' perceptions of our services, and customer care quality. Managing these factors and subscribers' expectations is essential in attracting and retaining subscribers. Although we have implemented programs to attract new subscribers and address subscriber turnover, we cannot assure you that these programs or our strategies to address subscriber acquisition and turnover will be successful. A high rate of turnover or low or negative rate of new subscriber acquisition would reduce revenues and increase the total marketing expenditures required to attract the minimum number of subscribers required to sustain our business plan which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to obtain or maintain the roaming services we need from other carriers to remain competitive.. Some of our competitors have national networks that enable them to offer nationwide coverage to their subscribers at a lower cost than we can offer. The networks we operate do not, by themselves, provide national coverage and we must pay fees to other carriers who provide roaming services to us. We currently rely on roaming agreements with several carriers for the majority of our roaming services.. The FCC requires commercial mobile radio service providers to provide roaming, upon request, for voice and SMS text messaging services on just, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms.  The FCC also requires carriers to offer data roaming services.  The rules do not provide or mandate any specific mechanism for determining the reasonableness of roaming rates for voice, SMS text messaging or data services and require that roaming complaints be resolved on a case-by-case basis, based on a non-exclusive list of factors that can be taken into account in determining the reasonableness of particular conduct or rates.  If we were to lose the benefit of one or more key roaming or wholesale agreements unexpectedly, we may be unable to obtain similar replacement agreements and as a result may be unable to continue providing nationwide voice and data roaming services for our customers or may be unable to provide such services on a cost-effective basis.  Our inability to obtain new or replacement roaming services on a cost-effective basis may limit our ability to compete effectively for wireless customers, which may increase our turnover and decrease our revenues, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Our business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation.  Applicable legislation and regulations and changes to them could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity.. Wireless Services. The licensing, construction, operation, sale and interconnection arrangements of wireless communications systems are regulated by the FCC and, depending on the jurisdiction, state and local regulatory agencies.  In particular, the FCC imposes significant regulation on licensees of wireless spectrum with respect to:. • How radio spectrum is used by licensees;. • The nature of the services that licensees may offer and how such services may be offered; and. • Resolution of issues of interference between spectrum bands.. Although the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, preempts state and local regulation of market entry and the rates charged by commercial mobile radio service providers, states may exercise authority over such things as certain billing practices and consumer-related issues.  These regulations could increase the costs of our wireless operations.  The FCC grants wireless licenses for terms of generally ten years that are subject to renewal and revocation. FCC rules require all wireless licensees to meet certain build-out requirements and substantially comply with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, in order to retain their licenses.  Failure to comply with FCC requirements in a given license area could result in revocation of the license for that license area.  There is no guarantee that our licenses will be renewed.. Commercial mobile radio service providers must implement E911 capabilities in accordance with FCC rules.  While we believe that we are currently in compliance with such FCC rules, the failure to deploy E911 service consistent with FCC requirements could subject us to significant fines.. We use tower facilities for the provision of our wireless services.  The FCC, together with the Federal Aviation Administration, also regulates tower marking and lighting. In addition, tower construction is affected by federal, state and local statutes addressing zoning, environmental protection and historic preservation.  The FCC requires local notice in any community in which an applicant is seeking FCC Antenna Structure Registration to build a tower.  Local notice provides members of the community with an opportunity to comment on or challenge the tower construction for environmental reasons.  This rule could cause delay for certain tower construction projects.. Internet Services. In 2015, the FCC adopted an order reclassifying Internet service as a telecommunications service under Title II of the Communications Act. The order prohibited broadband providers from blocking or throttling most lawful public Internet traffic, from engaging in paid prioritization of that traffic, and from unreasonably interfering with or disadvantaging end users' and edge providers' ability to send traffic to, from, and among each other.  The order also strengthened the FCC's transparency rules, which require accurate and truthful service disclosures, sufficient for consumers to make informed choices, for example, about speed, price and fees, latency, and network management practices.  The order allowed broadband providers to engage in reasonable network management, including using techniques to address traffic congestion. The new rules applied equally to wired and wireless broadband services. The order refrained from imposing rate regulation or tariff requirements on broadband services.. On January 4, 2018, the FCC released an order that returned to a Title I classification of Internet service and eliminated many of the requirements described above.  There are various efforts in Congress, through the federal courts of appeal, and through state legislation to re-impose the rules adopted in 2015.  We cannot predict whether the FCC will re-impose the 2015 rules, but if it did, it is possible that the FCC could interpret or apply those rules in a way that has a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, or liquidity.. Video Services. The cable television industry is subject to extensive regulation at various levels, and many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals.  It is possible that rate reductions or refunds of previously collected fees may be required of us in the future.. Other existing federal regulations, currently the subject of judicial, legislative, and administrative review, could change, in varying degrees, the manner in which video systems operate. Neither the outcome of these proceedings nor their impact on the cable television industry in general, or on our activities and prospects in the cable television business in particular, can be predicted at this time. There can be no assurance that future regulatory actions taken. 16. by Congress, the FCC or other federal, state or local government authorities will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity.. Local Access Services. Our success in the local telephone market depends on our continued ability to obtain interconnection, access and related services from local exchange carriers on terms that are reasonable and that are based on the cost of providing these services. Our local telephone services business faces the risk of unfavorable changes in regulation or legislation or the introduction of new regulations. Our ability to provide service in the local telephone market depends on our negotiation or arbitration with local exchange carriers to allow interconnection to the carrier's existing local telephone network (in some Alaska markets at cost-based rates), to establish dialing parity, to obtain access to rights-of-way, to resell services offered by the local exchange carrier, and in some cases, to allow the purchase, at cost-based rates, of access to unbundled network elements. Future negotiations or arbitration proceedings with respect to new or existing markets could result in a change in our cost of serving these markets via the facilities of the ILEC or via wholesale offerings.. For more information about Regulations affecting our operations, see \"Part 1  - Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulation.\". Loss of our ETC status would disqualify us for USF support.. The USF pays support to ETCs to support the provision of facilities-based wireline and wireless telephone service in high cost areas.  If we were to lose our ETC status in any of the study areas where we are currently an authorized ETC whether due to legislative or regulatory reform or our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we would be ineligible to receive USF support for providing service in that area.  Loss of our ETC status could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity.. Revenues and accounts receivable from USF support may be reduced or lost.. We receive support from each of the various USF programs: high cost, low income, rural health care, and schools and libraries.  This support was 26%, 24%, and 19% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  We had USF net receivables of $131.8 million and $100.5 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  The programs are subject to change by regulatory actions taken by the FCC or legislative actions.  Changes to any of the USF programs that we participate in could result in a material decrease in revenue and accounts receivable, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity.. Additionally, the USF RHC Program subsidizes the rates for services provided to rural health care providers. USAC received requests for support that exceeded the available RHC Program funding for the first time in the funding year that ran from July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2017. We expect that the support requests will continue to exceed the program's annual cap for the funding year ending June 30, 2018 and possibly subsequent funding years. We provide services to rural health care providers who may be impacted by funding caps and as a result may not receive the full subsidy that was expected under the program. We cannot predict the impact of future RHC Program funding caps but they may negatively affect our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity.. See \"Description of Our Business  -  Regulation  -  Wireless Services and Products  -  Universal Service\" and \"Description of Our Business  -  Regulation  -  Wireline Voice Services and Products  -  Universal Service\" for more information.. We may not meet our performance plan milestones under the Alaska High Cost Order.. As an ETC, we receive support from the USF to support the provision of wireline local access and wireless service in high cost areas. On August 31, 2016, the FCC published the Alaska High Cost Order which requires us to submit to the FCC a performance plan with five-year and ten-year commitments.  If we are unable to meet the final performance plan milestones approved by the FCC we will be required to repay 1.89 times the average amount of support per location received over the ten-year term for the relevant number of locations that we failed to deploy to, plus ten percent of our total Alaska High Cost Order support received over the ten-year term. Inability to meet our performance plan milestones could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity.. 17. We may lose USF high cost support if another carrier adds 4G LTE service in an area where we currently provide 4G LTE service.. Under the Alaska High Cost Order, the FCC adopted a process for revisiting after five years whether and to what extent there is duplicative support for 4G LTE service in rural Alaska and to take steps to eliminate such duplicative support levels in the second half of the ten-year term.  As a result, if another carrier builds 4G LTE service in an area where we are the sole provider and the FCC decides to redistribute the support then our high cost support may be reduced which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity.. Programming expenses for our video services are increasing, which could adversely affect our business.. We expect programming expenses for our video services to continue to increase in the foreseeable future.  The multichannel video provider industry has continued to experience an increase in the cost of programming, especially sports programming and costs to retransmit local broadcast stations. As our contracts with content providers expire, there can be no assurance that they will be renewed on acceptable terms or that they will be renewed at all, in which case we may be unable to provide such content as part of our video services and our business could be adversely affected. If we add programming to our video services or if we choose to distribute existing programming to our customers through additional delivery platforms, we may incur increased programming expenses.  If we are unable to raise our customers' rates or offset such programming cost increases through the sale of additional services, the increasing cost of programming could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The decline in our voice services' results of operations, which include long-distance and local access services, may accelerate.. We expect our voice services' results of operations, which include long-distance and local access services, will continue to decline.  As competition from wireless carriers, such as ourselves, increases we expect our long-distance and local access services' subscribers and revenues will continue to decline and the rate of decline may accelerate.. We may not be able to satisfy the requirements of our participation in a New Markets Tax Credit (\"NMTC\") program for funding our TERRA project.. We have entered into five separate arrangements under the NMTC program with US Bancorp to help fund various phases of our TERRA project. In connection with the NMTC transactions we received proceeds which were restricted for use on TERRA. The NMTCs are subject to 100% recapture of the tax credit for a period of seven years as provided in the Internal Revenue Code. We are required to be in compliance with various regulations and contractual provisions that apply to the NMTC arrangements.  We have agreed to indemnify US Bancorp for any loss or recapture of its $65.8 million in NMTCs plus interest and penalties until such time as our obligation to deliver tax benefits is relieved.  Our obligation to deliver tax benefits is relieved in various stages from August 2018 through December 2024. Non-compliance with applicable requirements could result in projected tax benefits not being realized by US Bancorp and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.. Failure to stay abreast of new technology could affect our ability to compete in the industry.. We test and deploy various new technologies and support systems intended to enhance our competitiveness and increase the utility of our services.  As our operations grow in size and scope, we must continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure while maintaining or improving the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure.  The emergence of alternative platforms such as mobile or tablet computing devices and the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize products, services or strategies for such platforms will require new investment in technology.  We may not successfully complete the rollout of new technology and related features or services in a timely manner, and they may not be widely accepted by our customers or may not be profitable, in which case we could not recover our investment in the technology.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete with advancing technology or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as we would like or in a cost effective manner.  Deployment of technology supporting new service offerings may also adversely affect the performance or reliability of our networks with respect to both the new and existing services.  Any resulting customer dissatisfaction could affect our ability to retain customers and may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. In addition to introducing new technologies. 18. and offerings, we must phase out outdated and unprofitable technologies and services.  If we are unable to do so on a cost-effective basis, we could experience reduced profits.. Our business is geographically concentrated in Alaska and is impacted by the economic conditions in Alaska.. We offer products and services to customers primarily throughout Alaska.  Because of this geographic concentration, growth of our business and operations depends upon economic conditions in Alaska.  The economy of Alaska is dependent upon the oil industry, state government spending, United States military spending, investment earnings and tourism. Prolonged periods of low oil prices will adversely impact the Alaska economy, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the demand for our products and services and on our results of operations and financial condition.  Oil prices have continued to remain low which has put significant pressure on the Alaska state government budget since the majority of its revenues come from the oil industry. While the Alaska state government has significant reserves that we believe will help fund the state government for the next couple of years, major structural budgetary reforms will need to be implemented in order to offset the impact of lower oil prices.. The Alaska economy is in a recession that started in late 2015. While it is difficult for us to predict the future impact of the continuing recession on our business, these conditions have had an adverse impact on our business and could continue to adversely affect the affordability of and demand for some of our products and services and cause customers to shift to lower priced products and services or to delay or forgo purchases of our products and services.  Additionally, our customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us.  If that were to occur, we could be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, and the number of days outstanding for our accounts receivable could increase. If the recession continues, it could continue to negatively affect our business including our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity, as well as our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns.. The customer base in Alaska is limited and we have already achieved significant market penetration with respect to our service offerings in Anchorage and other locations in Alaska.  We may not be able to continue to increase our share of the existing markets for our services, and no assurance can be given that the Alaskan economy will grow and increase the size of the markets we serve or increase the demand for the services we offer.  The markets in Alaska for wireless and wireline telecommunications and video services are unique and distinct within the United States due to Alaska's large geographical size, its sparse population located in a limited number of clusters, and its distance from the rest of the United States.  The expertise we have developed in operating our businesses in Alaska may not provide us with the necessary expertise to successfully enter other geographic markets.. Natural or man-made disasters or terrorist attacks could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our technical infrastructure (including our communications network infrastructure and ancillary functions supporting our network such as service activation, billing and customer care) is vulnerable to damage or interruption from technology failures, power surges or outages, natural disasters, fires, human error, terrorism, intentional wrongdoing or similar events. As a communications provider, there is an increased risk that our technological infrastructure may be targeted in connection with terrorism or cyberattacks, either as a primary target, or as a means of facilitating additional attacks on other targets.. In addition, earthquakes, floods, fires and other unforeseen natural disasters or events could materially disrupt our business operations or our provision of service in one or more markets.  Costs we incur to restore, repair or replace our network or technical infrastructure, as well as costs associated with detecting, monitoring or reducing the incidence of unauthorized use, may be substantial and increase our cost of providing service.  Any failure in or interruption of systems that we or third parties maintain to support ancillary functions, such as billing, point of sale, inventory management, customer care and financial reporting, could materially impact our ability to timely and accurately record, process and report information important to our business.  If any of the above events were to occur, we could experience higher churn, reduced revenues and increased costs, any of which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Additionally, our insurance may not be adequate to cover the costs associated with a natural disaster or terrorist attack.. 19. Cyberattacks or other network disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business.. Cyberattacks against our technological infrastructure or breaches of network information technology may cause equipment failures, disruption of our operations, and potentially unauthorized access to confidential customer data.  Cyberattacks, which include the use of malware, computer viruses, and other means for service disruption or unauthorized access to confidential customer data, have increased in frequency, scope, and potential harm for businesses in recent years.  It is possible for such cyberattacks to go undetected for an extended period of time, increasing the potential harm to our customers, our assets, and our reputation.. To date, we have not been subject to cyberattacks or network disruptions that individually or in the aggregate, have been material to our operations or financial condition.  Nevertheless, we engage in a variety of preventive measures at an increased cost to us, in order to reduce the risk of cyberattacks and safeguard our infrastructure and confidential customer information. Such measures include, but are not limited to the following industry best practices: application whitelisting, anti-malware, message and spam filtering, encryption, advanced firewalls, threat detection, and URL filtering.  Despite these preventive and detective actions, our efforts may be insufficient to repel a major cyberattack or network disruption in the future.. Some of the most significant risks to our information technology systems, networks, and infrastructure include:. • Cyberattacks that disrupt, damage, and gain unauthorized access to our network and computer systems including data breaches caused by criminal or terrorist activities;. • Undesired human actions including intentional or accidental errors;. • Malware (including viruses, worms, cryptoware, and Trojan horses), software defects, unsolicited mass advertising, denial of service, ransomware, and other malicious or abusive attacks by third parties; and,. • Unauthorized access to our information technology, billing, customer care, and provisioning systems and networks and those of our vendors and other providers.. If hackers or cyberthieves gain improper access to our technology systems, networks, or infrastructure, they may be able to access, steal, publish, delete, misappropriate, modify or otherwise disrupt access to confidential customer data.  Moreover, additional harm to customers could be perpetrated by third parties who are given access to the confidential customer data.  A network disruption (including one resulting from a cyberattack) could cause an interruption or degradation of service as well as permit access, theft, publishing, deletion, misappropriation, or modification to or of confidential customer data.  Due to the evolving techniques used in cyberattacks to disrupt or gain unauthorized access to technology networks, we may not be able to anticipate or prevent such disruption or unauthorized access.. The costs imposed on us as a result of a cyberattack or network disruption could be significant.  Among others, such costs could include increased expenditures on cyber security measures, litigation, fines, and sanctions, lost revenues from business interruption, and damage to the public's perception regarding our ability to provide a secure service.  As a result, a cyberattack or network disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.. Increases in data usage on our wired and wireless networks may cause network capacity limitations, resulting in service disruptions, reduced capacity or slower transmission speeds for our customers.. Video streaming services and peer-to-peer file sharing applications use significantly more bandwidth than traditional Internet activity such as web browsing and email.  As use of these services continues to grow, our customers will likely use more bandwidth than in the past. Additionally, new wireless handsets and devices may place a higher demand for data on our wireless network. If this occurs, we could be required to make significant capital expenditures to increase network capacity in order to avoid service disruptions, service degradation or slower transmission speeds for our customers. Alternatively, we could choose to implement network management practices to reduce the network capacity available to bandwidth-intensive activities during certain times in market areas experiencing congestion, which could negatively affect our ability to retain and attract customers in affected areas. While we believe demand for these services may drive customers to pay for faster speeds, competitive or regulatory constraints may preclude us from recovering the costs of the necessary network investments which could result in an adverse impact to our business, financial condition, and operating results.. 20. Prolonged service interruptions or system failures could affect our business.. We rely heavily on our network equipment, communications providers, data and software to support all of our functions.  We rely on our networks and the networks of others for substantially all of our revenues. We are able to deliver services and serve our customers only to the extent that we can protect our network systems against damage from power or communication failures, computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access and other disruptions.  While we endeavor to provide for failures in the network by providing back-up systems and procedures, we cannot guarantee that these back-up systems and procedures will operate satisfactorily in an emergency.  Disruption to our billing systems due to a failure of existing hardware and backup protocols could have an adverse effect on our revenue and cash flow. Should we experience a prolonged failure, it could seriously jeopardize our ability to continue operations.  In particular, should a significant service interruption occur, our ongoing customers may choose a different provider, and our reputation may be damaged, reducing our attractiveness to new customers.. If failures occur in our undersea fiber optic cable systems or our TERRA facilities and its extensions, our ability to immediately restore the entirety of our service may be limited and we could incur significant costs.. Our communications facilities include undersea fiber optic cable systems that carry a large portion of our traffic to and from the contiguous lower 48 states, one of which provides an alternative geographically diverse backup communication facility to the other.  Our facilities also include TERRA and its extensions some of which are unringed, operating in a remote environment and are at times difficult to access for repairs.  Damage to an undersea fiber optic cable system or TERRA and its extensions could result in significant unplanned expense.  If a failure of both sides of the ring of our undersea fiber optic facilities or our ringed TERRA facility and its unringed extensions occurs and we are not able to secure alternative facilities, some of the communications services we offer to our customers could be interrupted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity.. If a failure occurs in our satellite communications systems, our ability to immediately restore the entirety of our service may be limited.. Our communications facilities include satellite transponders that we use to serve many rural and remote Alaska locations.  Each of our C-band and Ku-band satellite transponders is backed up using on-board transponder redundancy.  In the event of a complete spacecraft failure the services are restored using capacity on other spacecraft that are held in reserve.  If a failure of our satellite transponders occurs and we are not able to secure alternative facilities, some of the communications services we offer to our customers could be interrupted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity.. We depend on a limited number of third-party vendors to supply communications equipment.  If we do not obtain the necessary communications equipment, we will not be able to meet the needs of our customers.. We depend on a limited number of third-party vendors to supply wireless, Internet, video and other telephony-related equipment.  If our providers of this equipment are unable to timely supply the equipment necessary to meet our needs or provide them at an acceptable cost, we may not be able to satisfy demand for our services and competitors may fulfill this demand.  Due to the unique characteristics of the Alaska communications markets (i.e., remote locations, rural, satellite-served, low density populations, and our leading edge services and products), in many situations we deploy and utilize specialized, advanced technology and equipment that may not have a large market or demand.  Our vendors may not succeed in developing sufficient market penetration to sustain continuing production and may fail.  Vendor bankruptcy, or acquisition without continuing product support by the acquiring company, may require us to replace technology before its otherwise useful end of life due to lack of on-going vendor support and product development.. The suppliers and vendors on which we rely may also be subject to litigation with respect to technology on which we depend, including litigation involving claims of patent infringement.  Such claims have been growing rapidly in the communications industry.  We are unable to predict whether our business will be affected by any such litigation.  We expect our dependence on key suppliers to continue as they develop and introduce more advanced generations of technology.  The failure of our key suppliers to provide products or product support could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations.. 21. We do not have insurance to cover certain risks to which we are subject, which could lead to the occurrence of uninsured liabilities.. As is typical in the communications industry, we are self-insured for damage or loss to certain of our transmission facilities, including our buried, undersea and above-ground fiber optic cable systems.  If we become subject to substantial uninsured liabilities due to damage or loss to such facilities, our financial position, results of operations or liquidity may be adversely affected.. We are in the process of transferring our customer billing systems to a new third-party vendor. Any unanticipated difficulties, disruption or significant delays could have adverse operational, financial and reputational effects on our business.. We are currently implementing a new customer billing system, which involves moving to a new third-party billing services vendor and platform in 2018.  The implementation may cause major system or business disruptions or we may fail to implement the new billing system in a timely or effective manner. In addition, the third-party billing services vendor may experience errors, cyber-attacks or other operational disruptions that could negatively impact us and over which we may have limited control. Interruptions and/or failure of this new billing services system could disrupt our operations and impact our ability to provide or bill for our services, retain customers, or attract new customers, and negatively impact overall customer experience. Any occurrence of the foregoing could cause material adverse effects on our operations and financial condition, material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and reputational damage.. Our significant debt and lease obligations could adversely affect our business.. We have and will continue to have a significant amount of debt and lease obligations including capital, operating, and the tower obligation (see Note 2 included in \"Part II - Item 8 - Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" for additional information).  Our high level of debt and lease obligations could have important consequences, including the following:. • Increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry, or competitive developments;. • Requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities;. • Exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates to the extent of any future borrowings at variable rates of interest;. • Making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;. • Restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product and service development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and. • Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage may prevent us from exploiting.. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our debt and to meet other obligations.  Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.  If we are unable to meet our future capital needs it may be necessary for us to curtail, delay or abandon our business growth plans.  If we incur significant additional indebtedness to fund our plans, it could cause a decline in our credit rating and could increase our borrowing costs or limit our ability to raise additional capital.. We will continue to require a significant amount of cash to satisfy our debt service requirements and to meet other obligations.  Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and acquisitions will depend on our ability to generate cash and to arrange additional financing in the future.  These abilities are subject to, among other factors, our credit rating, our financial performance, general economic conditions, prevailing market conditions, the state of competition in our market, the outcome of certain legislative and regulatory issues and other factors that may be beyond our control.  Our business may not generate sufficient. 22. cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs.  We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity.  We may not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. The terms of our debt obligations impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business and our ability to make payments on the debt obligations.. The indentures governing our Senior Notes and/or the credit agreements governing our Senior Credit Facility and other loans contain various covenants that could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest.. All of these covenants may restrict our ability to expand or to pursue our business strategies.  Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and if such events occur, we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply.  A breach of these covenants could result in a default under the indentures and/or the credit agreements.  If there were an event of default under the indentures and/or the credit agreements, holders of such defaulted debt could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and payable immediately.  Additionally, if we fail to repay the debt under the Senior Credit Facility when it becomes due, the lenders under the Senior Credit Facility could proceed against certain of our assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries that we have pledged to them as security.  Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments in the event of a default thereunder.. When our Senior Credit Facility and Senior Notes mature, we may not be able to refinance or replace one or both.. When our Senior Credit Facility and Senior Notes mature, we will likely need to refinance them and may not be able to do so on favorable terms or at all. If we are able to refinance maturing indebtedness, the terms of any refinancing or alternate credit arrangements may contain terms and covenants that restrict our financial and operating flexibility.. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Our borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness could increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flow could decrease.. In order to manage our exposure to interest rate risk, in the future, we may enter into derivative financial instruments, typically interest rate swaps and caps, involving the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments. If we are unable to enter into interest rate swaps, it may adversely affect our cash flow and may impact our ability to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.. Any significant impairment of our indefinite-lived intangible assets would lead to a decrease in our assets and a reduction in our net operating performance.. We had $530.8 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets at December 31, 2017, consisting of goodwill of $242.3 million, cable certificates of $191.6 million, wireless licenses of $93.8 million and broadcast licenses of $3.1 million.  Goodwill represents the excess of cost over fair value of net assets acquired in connection with business acquisitions. Our cable certificates represent agreements with government entities to construct and operate a video business.  Our wireless licenses are from the FCC and give us the right to provide wireless service within a certain geographical area.  Our broadcast licenses represent permission to use a portion of the radio frequency spectrum in a given geographical area for broadcasting purposes.. If we make changes in our business strategy or if market or other conditions adversely affect our operations, we may be forced to record an impairment charge, which would lead to a decrease in our assets and a reduction in our net operating performance.  Our indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually for impairment during the fourth quarter and at any time upon the occurrence of certain events or substantive changes in circumstances that indicate the assets might be impaired.  If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record an impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the. 23. goodwill and/or the indefinite-lived intangible assets, as appropriate, in the period in which the determination is made.  The testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions.  These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in underlying business operations, future operating performance, changes in competition, or changes in technologies.  Any changes to key assumptions, or actual performance compared with those assumptions, about our business and its future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value, resulting in an impairment charge.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments could be negatively impacted if there is an \"ownership change\" as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code.. At December 31, 2017, we have tax net operating loss carryforwards of $371.2 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, under the Internal Revenue Code, we may carry forward these net operating losses in certain circumstances to offset any current and future taxable income and thus reduce our federal income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. If we experience an \"ownership change,\" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and related Treasury regulations at a time when our market capitalization is below a certain level, our ability to use the net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited. This limit could impact the timing of the usage of the net operating loss carryforwards, thus accelerating cash tax payments or causing net operating loss carryforwards to expire prior to their use, which could affect the ultimate realization of that deferred tax asset.. Concerns about health/safety risks associated with wireless equipment may reduce the demand for our wireless services.. We do not manufacture devices or other equipment sold by us, and we depend on our suppliers to provide defect-free and safe equipment. Suppliers are required by applicable law to manufacture their devices to meet certain governmentally imposed safety criteria. However, even if the devices we sell meet the regulatory safety criteria, we could be held liable with the equipment manufacturers and suppliers for any harm caused by products we sell if such products are later found to have design or manufacturing defects. We cannot guarantee that we will be fully protected against all losses associated with a product that is found to be defective.. Portable communications devices have been alleged to pose health risks, including cancer, due to radio frequency emissions from these devices.  Purported class actions and other lawsuits have been filed from time to time against other wireless companies seeking not only damages but also remedies that could increase the cost of doing business.  We cannot be sure of the outcome of any such cases or that the industry will not be adversely affected by litigation of this nature or public perception about health risks.  The actual or perceived risk of mobile communications devices could adversely affect us through a reduction in subscribers.  Further research and studies are ongoing, with no linkage between health risks and mobile phone use established to date by a credible public source.  However, we cannot be sure that additional studies will not demonstrate a link between radio frequency emissions and health concerns.. Additionally, there are safety risks associated with the use of wireless devices while operating vehicles or equipment.  Concerns over any of these risks and the effect of any legislation, rules or regulations that have been and may be adopted in response to these risks could limit our ability to sell our wireless services.. A significant percentage of our voting securities are owned by a small number of shareholders and these shareholders can control shareholder decisions on very important matters.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates owned 15% of our combined outstanding common stock, representing 25% of the combined voting power of that stock.  These shareholders can significantly influence, if not control, our management policy and all fundamental corporate actions, including mergers, substantial acquisitions and dispositions, and election of directors to the Board.. 24. We expect to incur significant costs and expenses in connection with the Transactions.. We expect to incur certain nonrecurring costs in connection with the consummation of the Transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement, including advisory, legal and other transaction costs.  A majority of these costs have already been incurred or will be incurred regardless of whether the Transactions are completed.  While many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time, we continue to assess the magnitude of these costs, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in connection with the Transactions.  Although we expect that the realization of benefits related to the Transactions will offset such costs and expenses over time, no assurances can be made that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all.. Additionally, the inputs that impact the estimate of value of our derivative stock appreciation rights have been impacted and may continue to be impacted by the Transactions with Liberty which could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations.. The announcement and pendency of the Transactions could divert the attention of management and cause disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Liberty and GCI are unaffiliated companies that are currently operated independently of each other. Our management may be required to divert a disproportionate amount of attention away from their respective day-to-day activities and operations, and devote time and effort to consummating the Transactions.  The risks, and adverse effects, of such disruptions and diversions could be exacerbated by a delay in the completion of the Transactions.  These factors could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations, regardless of whether the Transactions are completed.. We are subject to contractual restrictions while the Transactions are pending, which could adversely affect our business.. The Reorganization Agreement imposes certain restrictive interim covenants on us.  For instance, the consent of Liberty is required in respect of, among other things, amendments to our organizational documents, share repurchases, certain actions relating to material contracts, certain employee benefit changes, limitations on capital expenditures and limitations on dispositions, payments of dividends, and certain issuances of shares of our common stock.  These restrictions may prevent us from taking certain actions before the closing of the Transactions or the termination of the Reorganization Agreement, including making certain acquisitions or otherwise pursuing certain business opportunities, or making certain changes to our capital stock, that our board of directors may deem beneficial.. Failure to complete the Transactions could negatively impact our stock price, future business, and financial results.. If the Transactions are not completed for any reason, we may be subject to numerous risks, including the following:. • We may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on the price of our common stock, or from customers, regulators, and employees;. • We may be required to pay Liberty a termination fee in connection with the termination of the Reorganization Agreement under certain circumstances;. • We may experience reputational harm due to the adverse perception of any failure to successfully complete the Transactions; and. • We may experience harm to our business due to the following: (i) operating under the restrictions on the conduct of our business set forth in the Reorganization Agreement, (ii) having our management divert attention away from their respective day-to-day activities and operations and devoting time and effort to consummating the Transactions and (iii) incurring significant costs, including advisory, legal and other transaction costs, each as explained above, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the Transactions.. In addition, we could be subject to the cost of litigation related to any dispute regarding an alleged failure of a closing condition or any related enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our obligations under the Reorganization Agreement or any of the other transaction documents, as well as any judgment potentially. 25. sustained against us in any such action.  All of these risks, expenses and contingencies could adversely affect our financial position and results of operation."
