[1] "Item 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Our operations are subject to a number of risks, including those listed below. When considering investments in our company, you should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting the Company and our business in each of these categories of risks. However, the risks and uncertainties the Company faces are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business and may be material. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case or in the case that an additional risk or uncertainty not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial develops into actual events or the materiality increases, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Risks Relating to Our Business. We face significant competition and, if we are not able to respond to competition, our revenues may decrease.. We face significant competition from a variety of competitors in each of our markets. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. New competitors also could enter our markets and certain of our customers could decide to self-manufacture or otherwise enter our markets. We consider product quality, performance, customer service, on-time delivery, price, distribution capabilities and breadth of product offerings to be the primary competitive factors in our markets. Our competitors may be able to offer more attractive pricing, duplicate our strategies, or develop enhancements to products that could offer performance features that are superior to our products. Competitive pressures, including those described above, could adversely affect our competitive position, leading to a loss of market share or decreases in prices, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 11. Table of Contents. If we are not able to continue our technological innovation and successful introduction of new products, our customers may turn to other suppliers to meet their requirements.. The specialty chemicals  and building materials industries, as well as the end-use applications into which we sell our products, experience ongoing technological change and product improvements. A key element of our business strategy is to invest in research and development activities with the goal of introducing new high-performance, technically differentiated products. We may not be successful in developing new technology and products that successfully compete with products introduced by our competitors, and our customers may not accept or may have lower demand for, our new products. If we fail to keep pace with evolving technological innovations or fail to improve our products in response to our customers' needs, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of reduced sales of our products.. When consistent with our business strategies, we intend to pursue acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions that complement or expand our businesses. We may not be able to complete proposed transactions and even if completed, the transactions may not achieve the earnings, cash flow or returns on investment that we had contemplated.. We have recently completed a number of acquisitions that we believe will contribute to our future success. We intend to continue to pursue opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current businesses or product lines or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may have difficulty identifying appropriate opportunities or, if we do identify opportunities, we may not be successful in completing transactions for a number of reasons. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including:. • the diversion of management's attention from our existing businesses to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture;. • possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process;. • failure of the acquired business to achieve expected operational objectives; and. • our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction.. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or their employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, which may lead to operational inefficiencies.. The length and depth of product and industry business cycles in our segments may result in periods of reduced sales, earnings and cash flows, and portions of our business are subject to seasonality and weather-related effects.. Our construction business is cyclical in response to economic conditions and construction demand and is also seasonal and dependent on favorable weather conditions, with a decrease in construction activity during the winter months.. Prices for certain raw materials are volatile and can have a significant effect on our manufacturing and supply chain strategies as we seek to maximize our profitability. If we are unable to successfully adjust our strategies in response to volatile raw materials prices, such volatility could have a negative effect on our earnings in future periods.. We use petroleum-based materials, natural gas derivatives and other materials to manufacture our products. Prices for these materials are volatile and can have a significant effect on our pricing, sales, manufacturing and supply chain strategies as we seek to maximize our profitability. Our ability to successfully adjust strategies in response to volatile raw material prices by increasing prices for our products and services, reducing costs or taking other actions is a significant factor in maintaining or improving our profitability. If we are unable to successfully adjust our strategies in response to volatile raw material prices, such volatility could have a negative effect on our sales and earnings in future periods.. 12. Table of Contents. A substantial portion of our raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change. We attempt to manage exposure to price volatility of major commodities through:. • long-term supply contracts;. • customer contracts that permit adjustments for changes in prices of commodity-based materials and energy; and. • forward buying programs that layer in our expected requirements systematically over time;. Although we regularly assess our exposure to raw material price volatility, we cannot always predict the prospects of volatility and we cannot always cover the risks we face in a cost-effective manner.. We have a policy of maintaining, when available, multiple sources of supply for raw materials. However, certain of our raw materials may be provided by single sources of supply. We may not be able to obtain sufficient raw materials due to unforeseen developments that would cause an interruption in supply. Even if we have multiple sources of supply for raw materials, these sources may not make up for the loss of a major supplier.. The global scope of our operations subjects us to the risks of doing business in foreign countries, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate our business on a global scale with approximately 53% of our 2017 sales outside the United States. We operate in over 35 countries and in over 30 currencies. We currently have many production facilities, technical centers and administrative and sales offices located outside North America, including facilities and offices in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and Latin America. We expect non-U.S. sales to continue to represent a majority of our revenue. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and economic conditions and regulatory requirements of many jurisdictions as well as risks related to the political relationship between the foreign countries in which we conduct business and the United States. Risks inherent in non-U.S. operations include the following:. • commercial agreements may be more difficult to enforce and receivables more difficult to collect;. • intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce;. • we may experience increased shipping costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation;. • we may have difficulty transferring our profits or capital from foreign operations to other countries where such funds could be more profitably deployed;. • we may experience unexpected adverse changes in export duties, quotas and tariffs and difficulties in obtaining export licenses;. • some foreign countries have adopted, and others may impose, additional withholding taxes or other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange and capital controls;. • foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises;. • our business and profitability in a particular country could be affected by political or economic repercussions on a domestic, country specific or global level from terrorist activities and the response to such activities;. • we may be affected by unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements; and. • unanticipated events, such as geopolitical changes, could adversely affect our foreign operations.. Our success as a global business will depend, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions by developing, implementing and maintaining policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business.. 13. Table of Contents. Global, regional and local economic weakness and political uncertainty could adversely affect our business and financial performance.. Economic and geopolitical uncertainty continues to exist across the globe, including with respect to the United Kingdom's vote to leave the European Union (\"Brexit\"), the failed military coup in Turkey in July 2016, which has led to continued political turmoil in Turkey and ongoing corruption scandals in Brazil. Our business and financial performance depend significantly on macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions and the demand for our products and services in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness and political uncertainty in various markets throughout the world, whether related to Brexit, the political situations in Turkey and/or Brazil, or otherwise, have resulted, and may in the future result, in decreased revenue, gross margin or earnings and in increased expenses.. We are exposed to currency exchange rate changes that impact our profitability and these risks could increase as a result of global political uncertainty and other risks in international markets.. We are exposed to currency exchange rate risk through our U.S. and non-U.S. operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may materially affect our operating results. For example, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the relative prices at which we and our competitors sell products in the same region and the cost of materials used in our operations. A substantial portion of our net sales and assets are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, at a constant level of business, our reported sales, earnings, assets and liabilities are reduced because the foreign currencies translate into fewer U.S. dollars. In addition, since we manufacture a portion of our construction products in emerging regions using raw materials from suppliers in the U.S., Europe and other advanced economies, changes in the values of the currencies of these emerging regions versus the U.S. dollar, the euro and the currencies of other advanced economies in which we purchase raw materials, may adversely affect our raw material costs.. We incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary's functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction risks effectively, which may expose our financial condition or results of operations to significant additional risk.. Our operations in Venezuela have been, and may in the future continue to be, adversely affected by political and economic instability in the country.. Our ability to manage our Venezuelan operations has been and will continue to be negatively affected by difficult conditions in Venezuela, including continuing high inflation and the significant devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar. Government regulations regarding price increases limit our ability to offset the effects of high inflation and the currency devaluations. Import authorization controls and the limited availability of foreign exchange limit our ability to import raw materials needed for the production of our products. In addition, labor laws limit our ability to manage overhead costs and, at times, production has been negatively impacted by local labor issues. Additional government actions could have further adverse impacts on our business, as could further deterioration in the Venezuelan economy resulting from the decline in the price of oil or from other factors. We have no assurance that we will be able to sustain operations in Venezuela.. Certain of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and we could be materially and adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions.. The FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because certain of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities, we are subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of anti-bribery laws or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 14. Table of Contents. We have debt obligations that could restrict our business, adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or restrict our ability to return cash to shareholders.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $544.3 million of indebtedness outstanding. The amount of and terms governing the Company's indebtedness may have material effects on our business, including to:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt payments, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development, distributions to holders of company common stock and other purposes;. • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or taking advantage of favorable business opportunities;. • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate;. • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, credit and industry conditions, including recessions;. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt service and other obligations;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less debt; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to dispose of assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other purposes.. We may also incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If we incur additional debt, the risks related to our indebtedness may intensify.. We require liquidity to service the Company's debt and to fund operations, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, acquisitions and other corporate expenses.. Our ability to fund operations, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, acquisitions and other corporate expenses, including repayment of our debt, depends on our ability to generate cash through future operating performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that our businesses will generate sufficient cash or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to fund all of our requirements. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to fund all of our requirements, we may need to pursue one or more alternatives, such as to:. • reduce or delay planned capital expenditures, research and development spending or acquisitions;. • obtain additional financing or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity;. • sell assets or businesses; and. • sell additional equity.. Any reduction or delay in planned capital expenditures, research and development spending or acquisitions or sales of assets or businesses may materially and adversely affect our future revenue prospects. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be able to raise additional equity capital, restructure or refinance any of our debt or obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. 15. Table of Contents. Restrictions imposed by agreements governing our indebtedness limit our ability to operate our business, finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. If we fail to comply with certain restrictions under these agreements, our debt could be accelerated and the Company may not have sufficient cash to pay the accelerated debt.. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit, among other things, our ability, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries, to:. • incur certain liens;. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and. • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our guarantors.. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our flexibility to operate our business. A failure to comply with the restrictions contained in these agreements, including maintaining the financial ratios required by our credit facilities, could lead to an event of default which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our future operating results will be sufficient to enable us to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness or to remedy any such default. In addition, in the event that repayment of our debt is accelerated pursuant to the terms of these agreements, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make such accelerated payments.. Our indebtedness exposes us to interest expense increases if interest rates increase.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $23 million, or 4%, of our borrowings at variable interest rates exposing us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed would remain the same, and our net income would decrease.. We have unfunded and underfunded pension plan liabilities. We will require future operating cash flow to fund these liabilities. We have no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash to satisfy these obligations.. We maintain U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans covering current and former employees who meet or met age and service requirements. Our net pension liability and cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the longevity and actuarial profile of our workforce, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the actual and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change in the expected rate of return on plan assets. In addition, any changes in the discount rate could result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost in the following years.. 16. Table of Contents. The divestiture of our Darex business could adversely affect our results of operations.. In July 2017, we completed the sale of our Darex business to Henkel AG & Co. KGaA. Potential difficulties in, and diversion of management attention as a result of, the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, in addition to delayed closings in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions, could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Following the divestiture of our Darex business, we have become a smaller, less diversified company with a narrower business focus, and we may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by warranty claims and product liability.. We provide standard warranties that our products perform according to their specifications and do not have material defects. In particular, for a limited number of high value construction projects we warrant the performance of some products for periods of 10 to 20 years. Our products are generally sold to the commercial, residential and infrastructure construction markets, and they often constitute an integral part of our customers' products. If our products do not meet specifications, are otherwise defective, or are used contrary to our instructions or in applications for which they are not designed, they may contribute to damage to our customers' products, the end users of our customers' products and buildings and other installations that contain our products.  Although we take measures to avoid product defects and instruct our customers on the proper use of our products, if a substantial warranty claim or product liability lawsuit is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim or lawsuit could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We manufacture and sell products into many global jurisdictions where our efforts to contractually limit our liability (e.g., by defining a maximum liability, disclaiming implied or other statutory forms of liability or by waiving certain types of damages, including consequential, indirect and non-proximately caused damages) may not be enforceable or may be found by a court to not apply in a particular situation.. We work with dangerous materials that can injure our employees, damage our facilities and disrupt our operations.. Some of our operations involve the handling of hazardous materials that may pose the risk of fire, explosion or the release of hazardous substances. Such events could result from terrorist attacks, natural disasters or operational failures, and might cause injury or loss of life to our employees and others, environmental contamination, and property damage. These events might cause a temporary shutdown of an affected plant or portion thereof, and we could be subject to penalties or claims as a result. A disruption of our operations caused by these or other events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may be required to spend large amounts of money for environmental compliance.. As a manufacturer of specialty chemicals and specialty building materials, we are subject to stringent regulations under numerous U.S. federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, discharge, disposition and stewardship of hazardous wastes and other materials. We expend funds to comply with such laws and regulations and attempt to implement sustainable practices across our global operations, including the minimization of our emissions to the environment. Nevertheless, legislative, regulatory and economic uncertainties (including existing and potential laws and regulations pertaining to climate change) make it difficult for us to project future spending for these purposes and we may be required to expend additional funds to remain in compliance.. 17. Table of Contents. Some of our employees are unionized, represented by works councils or employed subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws in the United States.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 2,500 total employees, of which approximately 800 were employed in the United States. Of our total U.S. employees, approximately 55 are unionized. In addition, a large number of our employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other rights to employees than the laws in the United States. Such employment rights require us to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect any changes to labor arrangements. For example, most of our employees in Europe are represented by works councils that have co-determination rights on any changes in conditions of employment, including salaries and benefits and staff changes, and may impede efforts to restructure our workforce. A strike, work stoppage or slowdown by our employees or significant dispute with our employees, whether or not related to these negotiations, could result in a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs.. We may be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, which could hurt our business or financial performance.. Although each of our core businesses monitors and conducts watches on third-party patents, conducts global trademark clearance searches as part of new product branding exercises, and otherwise creates its own product and promotional literature under its own copyrights in an attempt to avoid encroaching upon the intellectual property of others, from time to time we may receive claims from our competitors or others alleging that their patents, trademarks, copyrights, or other intellectual property rights have been infringed. Any claims that our products or processes or promotional materials infringe or interfere with the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of the claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending, and resolving the claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business. For example, a third-party could file an action against our company and/or its customers and allege that it is entitled to damages for the sale, use, or manufacture of company products believed to infringe the third-party patent, for the sale of non-infringing product used by the customer in a manner that infringes a third-party use patent, or for the sale of non-infringing products to a customer who combines the products with customer materials which in combination are believed to give rise to contributory type infringement of the third-party patent. We may experience delays as we pursue one or more of our commercial options: e.g., cease selling or manufacturing the allegedly infringing product, contest the validity or enforceability of the. third-party patent, redesign our products or processes to avoid the third-party patent, pay a license fee in order to commercialize under the third-party patent, obtain a legal opinion regarding non-infringement and/or invalidity of the third-party patent, and/or take other measures (e.g., negotiating a cross-license under one of our patent families as desired by the third-party) to avoid costs of litigation. Even if we ultimately prevail, the existence of the lawsuit could prompt our customers to switch to products that are not the subject of infringement suits.. We are subject to business continuity risks associated with centralization of certain administrative functions.. We have centralized certain administrative functions in designated centers around the world, to improve efficiency and reduce costs. To the extent that these central locations are disrupted or disabled, key business processes, such as invoicing, payments and general management operations, could be interrupted.. A failure of our information technology infrastructure could adversely impact our business and operations.. We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology (IT) infrastructure and our ability to expand and continually update this infrastructure in response to the changing needs of our business. If we experience a problem with the functioning of an important IT system or a security breach of our IT systems, the resulting disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business.. 18. Table of Contents. We and certain of our third-party vendors receive and store personal information in connection with our human resources operations and other aspects of our business. Despite our implementation of security measures, our IT systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, malware or other malicious code, unauthorized access, cyber-attack, phishing attacks, ransomware, account takeovers, denial of service attacks, human error, disruption, loss or destruction of data, natural disasters, power outages and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. A material network breach in the security of our IT systems could include the theft of our intellectual property, trade secrets or customer information. To the extent that any disruptions or security breaches result in a loss or damage to our data or an inappropriate disclosure of confidential or customer information, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers, lead to claims against us and ultimately harm our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. Risks Relating to the Separation. If the distribution and certain related transactions fail to qualify under applicable Internal Revenue Code provisions, Grace, the Company and Grace shareholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, the Company could be required to indemnify Grace for taxes and other related amounts, which may be material, pursuant to indemnification obligations under the Tax Sharing Agreement.. As a condition to the distribution that effected the Separation, Grace was required to receive an opinion of counsel, in form and substance satisfactory to Grace in its sole discretion, regarding the U.S. federal income tax treatment of the distribution and certain related transactions. The opinion of counsel was based upon and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of Grace and us, including those relating to our and Grace's past and future conduct. If any of these representations, statements or undertakings were, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if Grace or we breach any of its or our covenants in the Separation documents, such as the Tax Sharing Agreement, the opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized.. Notwithstanding the opinion of counsel, the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") could determine that the distribution and certain related transactions failed to qualify under applicable Internal Revenue Code provisions if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings upon which the opinion of counsel were based were false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. The opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS and there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert a contrary position.. If the distribution is determined to fail to qualify under applicable Internal Revenue Code provisions, then, in general, Grace may recognize taxable gain as if it had sold our common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value (unless Grace and GCP jointly make an election under Section 336(e) of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\") with respect to the distribution, in which case, in general, we would (i) recognize taxable gain as if we had sold all of our assets in a taxable sale in exchange for an amount equal to the fair market value of our common stock and the assumption of all of our liabilities and (ii) obtain a related step up in the basis of our assets), and Grace shareholders at the time of the distribution who received shares of our common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares.. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement entered into between Grace and GCP, we may be required to indemnify Grace against any additional taxes and related amounts resulting from (1) an acquisition under certain circumstances of all or a portion of our equity securities or assets, whether by merger or otherwise (and regardless of whether we participated in or otherwise facilitated the acquisition), (2) other actions that we may take or fail to, or (3) any of our representations or undertakings made in connection with the Separation and the distribution being incorrect or violated. Any such indemnity obligations could be material. In addition, Grace, GCP and our respective subsidiaries may incur certain tax costs in connection with the Separation, including non-U.S. tax costs resulting from Separations in non-U.S. jurisdictions, which may be material.. 19. Table of Contents. In connection with the Separation, Grace agreed to indemnify the Company for certain liabilities and we have agreed to indemnify Grace for certain liabilities. If the Company is required to act on these indemnities to Grace, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. The Grace indemnity may not be sufficient to insure the Company against the full amount of liabilities for which it may be allocated responsibility, and Grace may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future.. Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement and the Tax Sharing Agreement, Grace agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify Grace for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify Grace in each case for uncapped amounts, as discussed further in Note 12, \"Related Party Transactions and Transactions with Grace,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Indemnities that we may be required to provide Grace are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the U.S. federal income tax treatment of the distribution and certain related transactions. Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Grace has agreed to retain. Further, the indemnity from Grace may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and Grace may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Grace any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Certain of Grace's insurance policies may not cover us for losses associated with occurrences prior to the Separation.. In connection with the Separation, we entered into agreements with Grace to address several matters associated with the Separation, including insurance coverage. Post-Separation, some of Grace's insurance policies may not cover us for certain losses associated with occurrences prior to the Separation.. Risks Relating to Ownership of GCP Common Stock. Our share price may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • fluctuations in our quarterly or annual earnings results or those of other companies in our industry;. • failures of our operating results to meet the estimates of securities analysts or the expectations of shareholders or changes by securities analysts in their estimates of our future earnings;. • announcements made by us or our customers, suppliers or competitors;. • changes in laws or regulations which adversely affect us or our industry;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • general economic, industry and stock market conditions;. • future sales of company common stock by shareholders;. • future issuances of our common stock by us; and. • the other factors described in these \"Risk Factors\" and other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 20. Table of Contents. Provisions in the Company's corporate documents, the Tax Sharing Agreement and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change-in-control of the Company, even if that change may be considered beneficial by some Company shareholders.. The existence of some provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and of Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include:. • authorization of a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which may permit our Board of Directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of the Company's management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of the Company;. • prohibition on shareholders calling special meetings and taking action by written consent;. • advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the Company's Board of Directors and for proposing matters to be acted on by shareholders at the annual shareholder meetings;. • the temporary classification of our Board of Directors; and. • supermajority voting requirements for certain amendments to the Company's certificate of incorporation or shareholder proposals for amendments to the Company's bylaws.. In addition, the Company is subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the Company's Board of Directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for shares of company common stock.. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing the Board of Directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal as compared to its long-term plan as a standalone company. However, these provisions apply even if a proposal may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of GCP and our shareholders.. In addition, an acquisition or further issuance of our stock could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the Code. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, the Company would be required to indemnify Grace for any resulting tax and related amounts, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable.. Our U.S. and non-U.S. tax liabilities are dependent, in part, upon the distribution of income among various jurisdictions in which we operate.. Our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in our effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings (or changes in the interpretation thereof), changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures and various other governmental enforcement initiatives. Our tax expense includes estimates of tax reserves and reflects other estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company which could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. Changes in tax laws or regulations, including further regulatory developments arising from U.S. tax reform legislation as well as multi-jurisdictional changes enacted in response to the action items provided by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), will increase tax uncertainty and impact our provision for income taxes.. 21. Table of Contents. The Company may issue preferred stock with terms that could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of company common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our Board of Directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of company common stock. For example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences that we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. The Company does not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future.. We currently intend to retain future earnings to finance our business. As a result, GCP does not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. All decisions regarding the payment of dividends by GCP will be made by our Board of Directors from time to time in accordance with applicable law. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient surplus under Delaware law to be able to pay any dividends at any time in the future. This may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual expenses exceeding contemplated costs, funding of capital expenditures, increases in reserves or other currently unknown reasons. If we do not pay dividends, the price of our common stock must appreciate in order for your investment to increase in value. This appreciation may not occur. Further, you may have to sell some or all of your shares of our common stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment."
