[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company, or that the Company presently deems less significant, may also impair the Company's operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company's business operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The order of these risk factors does not reflect their relative importance or likelihood of occurrence.. The business is affected by the cyclical nature of the markets it serves.. The demand for the Company's products and service is dependent on general economic conditions and more specifically, the commercial highway construction industry. Adverse economic conditions may cause customers to forego or delay new purchases and rely more on repairing existing equipment thus negatively impacting the Company's sales and profits. Rising oil prices, volatile steel prices and shortage of qualified workers may have adverse effects on the Company. Market conditions could limit the Company's ability to raise selling prices to offset increases in material and labor costs.. The business is affected by the level of government funding for highway construction in the United States and Canada.. Many contractors depend on funding by federal, foreign, state and local agencies for highway, transit and infrastructure programs. Future legislation may increase or decrease government spending, which, if decreased, could have a negative effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Federal funding allocated to infrastructure may be decreased in the future.. In fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, the Company depended on one customer for a significant portion of its revenue. The loss of this relationship could have adverse consequences on the Company's future business.. The percentage of the Company's net revenue that was derived from sales to one customer was 13% in fiscal 2017, 14% in fiscal 2016 and 15% in fiscal 2015.. If the Company fails to comply with requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the business could be harmed and its stock price could decline.. Rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require the Company to assess its internal control over financial reporting annually. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess its internal control over financial reporting are complex. They require significant documentation, testing, and possible remediation of any significant deficiencies in and/or material weaknesses of internal controls in order to meet the detailed standards under these rules. The Company has evaluated its internal control over financial reporting as effective as of September 30, 2017. See Item 9A  -  Controls and Procedures  -  Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Although the Company has evaluated its internal control over financial reporting as effective as of September 30, 2017, in future fiscal years, the Company may encounter unanticipated delays or problems in assessing its internal control over financial reporting as effective or in completing its assessments by the required dates. In addition, the Company cannot assure you that its independent registered public accountants will attest that internal control over financial reporting is effective in future fiscal years. If the Company cannot assess its internal control over financial reporting as effective, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted.. 6. Table of Contents. The Company may be required to reduce its profit margins on contracts on which it uses the percentage-of-completion accounting method.. The Company records revenues and profits on many of its contracts using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. As a result, revisions made to the estimates of revenues and profits are recorded in the period in which the conditions that require such revisions become known and can be estimated. Although the Company believes that its profit margins are fairly stated and that adequate provisions for losses for its fixed-price contracts are recorded in the financial statements, as required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"), the Company cannot assure you that its estimated contract profit margins will not decrease or its estimated loss provisions will not increase materially in the future.. The Company may encounter difficulties with future acquisitions.. As part of its growth strategy, the Company intends to evaluate the acquisition of other companies, assets or product lines that would complement or expand the Company's existing business or broaden its customer relationships. Although the Company conducts due diligence reviews of potential acquisition candidates, it may not be able to identify all material liabilities or risks related to potential acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to locate and acquire any business, retain key personnel and customers of an acquired business or integrate any acquired business successfully. Additionally, there can be no assurance that financing for any acquisition, if necessary, will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that the Company will be able to accomplish its strategic objectives in connection with any acquisition. Although the Company periodically considers possible acquisitions, no specific acquisitions are probable as of the date of this Report on Form 10-K.. Demand for the Company's products is cyclical in nature.. Demand for the Company's products depends, in part, upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures by the highway construction industry. The highway construction industry historically has been cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the economy. Decreases in industry spending could have a material adverse effect upon demand for the Company's products and negatively impact its business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of its common stock.. The Company's marketable securities are comprised of cash and money funds, equities, corporate bonds, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, and government securities invested through a professional investment management firm and are subject to various risks, such as interest rates, markets, and credit.. Due to the level of risk associated with certain investment securities and the level of uncertainty related to changes in the value of securities, changes in these risk factors could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations.. There are and will continue to be quarterly fluctuations of the Company's operating results.. The Company's operating results historically have fluctuated from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, including the value, timing and shipment of individual orders and the mix of products sold. Revenues from certain large contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The Company recognizes product revenues upon shipment for the rest of its products. The Company's asphalt production equipment operations are subject to seasonal fluctuation, which may lower revenues and result in possible losses in a quarter.. If the Company is unable to attract and retain key personnel, its business could be adversely affected.. The success of the Company will continue to depend substantially upon the efforts, abilities and services of its management team and certain other key employees. The loss of one or more key employees could adversely affect the Company's operations. The Company's ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, either through direct hiring, or acquisition of other businesses employing such persons, will also be an important factor in determining its future success.. 7. Table of Contents. The Company may be required to defend its intellectual property against infringement or against infringement claims of others.. The Company holds numerous patents covering technology and applications related to various products, equipment and systems, and numerous trademarks and trade names registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in various foreign countries. There can be no assurance as to the breadth or degree of protection that existing or future patents or trademarks may afford the Company, or that any pending patent or trademark applications will result in issued patents or trademarks, or that the Company's patents, registered trademarks or patent applications, if any, will be upheld if challenged, or that competitors will not develop similar or superior methods or products outside the protection of any patents issued, licensed or sublicensed to the Company. Although the Company believes that none of its patents, technologies, products or trademarks infringe upon the patents, technologies, products or trademarks of others, it is possible that the Company's existing patents, trademarks or other rights may not be valid or that infringement of existing or future patents, trademarks or proprietary rights may occur. In the event that the Company's products are deemed to infringe upon the patent or proprietary rights of others, the Company could be required to modify the design of its products, change the name of its products or obtain a license for the use of certain technologies incorporated into its products. There can be no assurance that the Company would be able to do any of the foregoing in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will have the financial or other resources necessary to enforce or defend a patent, registered trademark or other proprietary right, and, if the Company's products are deemed to infringe upon the patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights of others, the Company could become liable for damages, which could also have a material adverse effect on the Company.. The Company may be subject to substantial liability for its products.. The Company is engaged in a business that could expose it to possible liability claims for personal injury or property damage due to alleged design or manufacturing defects in its products. The Company believes that it meets existing professional specification standards recognized or required in the industries in which it operates, and there are no material product liability claims pending against the Company as of the date hereof. Although the Company currently maintains product liability coverage, which it believes is adequate for the continued operation of its business, such insurance may prove inadequate or become difficult to obtain or unobtainable in the future on terms acceptable to the Company.. The Company is subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations, and the costs related to compliance with, or the Company's failure to comply with, existing or future laws and regulations, could adversely affect the business and results of operations.. The Company's operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Sanctions for noncompliance may include revocation of permits, corrective action orders, significant administrative or civil penalties and criminal prosecution. The Company's business involves environmental management and issues typically associated with historical manufacturing operations. To date, the Company's cost of complying with environmental laws and regulations has not been material, but the fact that such laws or regulations are changed frequently makes predicting the cost or impact of such laws and regulations on the Company's future operations uncertain.. The loss of one or more of the Company's raw materials suppliers could cause production delays.. The principal raw materials the Company uses are steel and related products. The Company has been able to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials for its operations. Although the Company believes that such raw materials are readily available from alternate sources, an interruption in the supply of steel and related products or a substantial increase in the price of any of these raw materials could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and its results of operations.. 8. Table of Contents. The Company is subject to significant government regulations.. The Company is subject to a variety of governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing of its products. Any failure by the Company to comply with present or future regulations could subject it to future liabilities, or the suspension of production that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. Such regulations could also restrict the Company's ability to expand its facilities, or could require the Company to acquire costly equipment or to incur other expenses to comply with such regulations. Although the Company believes it has the design and manufacturing capability to meet all industry or governmental agency standards that may apply to its product lines, including all domestic and foreign environmental, structural, electrical and safety codes, there can be no assurance that governmental laws and regulations will not become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with a violation. The cost to the Company of such compliance to date has not materially affected its business, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance, however, that violations will not occur in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. The Company's customers are also subject to extensive regulations, including those related to the workplace. The Company cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of governmental legislation, or regulatory requirements that could be imposed or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered, or interpreted. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of regulatory agencies, could require substantial expenditures by the Company and could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's management has effective voting control.. The Company's officers and directors beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 96.8% of the outstanding shares of the Company's $.10 par value Class B stock. The Class B stock is entitled to elect 75% (calculated to the nearest whole number, rounding five-tenths to next highest whole number) of the members of its Board of Directors. Further, approval of a majority of the Class B stock is generally required to effect a sale of the Company and certain other corporate transactions. As a result, these shareholders can elect more than a majority of the Board of Directors and exercise significant influence over most matters requiring approval by the Company's shareholders. This concentration of control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control.. The issuance of preferred stock may impede a change of control or may be dilutive to existing shareholders.. The Company's Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, authorizes the Company's Board of Directors, without shareholder vote, to issue up to 300,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to determine for any series the dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other preferences, rights and terms that are senior, and not available, to the holders of the Company's common stock. Thus, issuances of series of preferred stock could adversely affect the relative voting power, distributions and other rights of the common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could deter or impede a merger, tender offer or other transaction that some, or a majority of the Company's common shareholders might believe to be in their best interest or in which the Company's common shareholders might receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price of such shares.. The Company may be required to indemnify its directors and executive officers.. The Company has authority under Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law to indemnify its directors and officers to the extent provided in that statute. The Company's Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, provides that a director shall not be personally liable to the Company for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except to the extent such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the Delaware General Corporation Law. The Company's Bylaws provide, in part, that it indemnify each of its directors and officers against liabilities imposed upon them (including reasonable amounts paid in settlement) and expenses incurred by them in connection with any claim made against them or any action, suit or proceeding to which they may be a party by reason of their being or having been a director or officer. The Company maintains officers' and directors' liability insurance coverage. There can be no assurance that such insurance will be available in the future, or that if available, it will be available on terms that are acceptable to the Company. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage provided will be sufficient to cover the amount of any judgment awarded against an officer or director (either individually or in the aggregate). Consequently, if such judgment exceeds the coverage under the policy, the Company may be forced to pay such difference.. 9. Table of Contents. The Company enters into indemnification agreements with each of its executive officers and directors containing provisions that may require the Company, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as officers or directors (other than liabilities arising from willful misconduct of a culpable nature) and to advance their expenses incurred as a result of any proceeding against them as to which they could be indemnified. Management believes that such indemnification provisions and agreements are necessary to attract and retain qualified persons as directors and executive officers.. The Company does not expect to pay cash dividends for the foreseeable future.. For the foreseeable future, the Company intends to retain any earnings to finance its business requirements. It does not anticipate paying any cash dividends on its common stock or Class B stock. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors and will be dependent upon then existing conditions, including the financial condition and results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, business prospects, and other factors that the Board of Directors considers relevant.. Competition could reduce revenue from the Company's products and services and cause it to lose market share.. The Company currently faces strong competition in product performance, price and service. Some of the Company's competitors have greater financial, product development and marketing resources than the Company. If competition in the Company's industry intensifies or if the current competitors enhance their products or lower their prices for competing products, the Company may lose sales or be required to lower the prices it charges for its products. This may reduce revenues from the Company's products and services, lower its gross margins, or cause it to lose market share.. The Company's quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate, which may decrease its stock price.. The Company's quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. As a result, the Company's operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in some quarters, which could result in a decrease in the market price of its common stock. The reasons the Company's quarterly results may fluctuate include:. <U+0095>   General competitive and economic conditions. <U+0095>   Delays in, or uneven timing in, delivery of customer orders. <U+0095>   The seasonal nature of the industry. <U+0095>   The fluctuations in market value of its securities portfolio. <U+0095>   The introduction of new products by the Company or its competitors. <U+0095>   Product supply shortages. <U+0095>   Reduced demand due to adverse weather conditions. <U+0095>   Expiration or renewal of Federal highway programs, and. <U+0095>   Changes to state or Canadian provincial programs.. Period-to-period comparisons of such items should not be relied on as indications of future performance.. The Company's stock has been, and likely will continue to be, subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which will be beyond the Company's control.. The market price of the Company's common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, such as:. <U+0095>   Quarterly variations in operating results. <U+0095>   Changes in revenue growth rates as a whole or for specific geographic areas or products. <U+0095>   Changes in earnings estimates by market analysts. <U+0095>   The announcement of new products or product enhancements by the Company or its competitors. <U+0095>   Speculation in the press or analyst community of potential acquisitions by the Company, and. <U+0095>   General market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries.. 10. Table of Contents"
