[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS. This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Such forward-looking statements use words such as \"anticipate,\" \"budget,\" \"estimate,\" \"expect,\" \"project,\" \"intend,\" \"plan,\" \"believe,\" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of potential future events, circumstances or future operating or financial performance.  These forward-looking statements are based on our management's current expectations and observations.  Included among the factors that, in our view, could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K are the following: (i) declines or sustained weakness in demand in the drybulk shipping industry; (ii) continuation of weakness or declines in drybulk shipping rates; (iii) changes in the supply of or demand for drybulk products, generally or in particular regions; (iv) changes in the supply of drybulk carriers including newbuilding of vessels or lower than anticipated scrapping of older vessels; (v) changes in rules and regulations applicable to the cargo industry, including, without limitation, legislation adopted by international organizations or by individual countries and actions taken by regulatory authorities; (vi) increases in costs and expenses including but not limited to: crew wages, insurance, provisions, lube oil, bunkers, repairs, maintenance, general and administrative expenses, and management fee expenses; (vii) whether our insurance arrangements are adequate; (viii) changes in general domestic and international political conditions; (ix) acts of war, terrorism, or piracy; (x) changes in the condition of the Company's vessels or applicable maintenance or regulatory standards (which may affect, among other things, our anticipated drydocking or maintenance and repair costs) and unanticipated drydock expenditures; (xi) the Company's acquisition or disposition of vessels; (xii) the amount of offhire time needed to complete repairs on vessels and the timing and amount of any reimbursement by our insurance carriers for insurance claims, including offhire days; (xiii) the completion of definitive documentation with respect to charters; (xiv) charterers' compliance with the terms of their charters in the current market environment; (xv) the extent to which our operating results continue to be affected by weakness in market conditions and freight and charter rates; (xvi) our ability to maintain contracts that are critical to our operation, to obtain and maintain acceptable terms with our vendors, customers and service providers and to retain key executives, managers and employees; (xvii)  those other risks and uncertainties discussed below under the headings \"RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS & OPERATIONS\", and (xviii) other factors listed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the \"SEC\").  We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.. The following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered.  If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline.. 25. Table of Contents. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS. Industry Specific Risk Factors. A downturn in the global economic environment may negatively impact our business.. Slow growth rates in the global economy may negatively impact the drybulk industry.  General market volatility has endured over the last several years as a result of uncertainty about the growth rate of the world economy and the Chinese economy in particular, on which the drybulk industry depends to a significant degree.  Freight and charter rates have declined significantly in recent years, but have increased from historic lows due to a recent improvement of demand for drybulk commodities, as well as due to slowing growth rates in the supply of drybulk newbuilding vessel deliveries.  See \"Oversupply of drybulk carrier capacity may lead to rate weakness or further reductions in freight rates, charterhire rates and profitability\" for further details.  As a result, a number of drybulk shipping companies, including us, have experienced declining revenues, negative cash flow, and liquidity issues in recent years.  Although supply and demand fundamentals have improved, in recent years there have been widespread loan covenant defaults in the drybulk industry as well as declarations of bankruptcy by some operators and shipowners as well as charterers.. To address our liquidity and covenant compliance issues at the time, in November 2016 we refinanced or amended our credit facilities as further described in Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements and completed a $125 million capital raise.  Based on current market conditions, we believe these measures are sufficient to address such issues for at least the next twelve months.  However, if the current global economic environment worsens or does not sufficiently recover, we may be negatively affected in the following ways:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAs a result of low freight and charter rates that in some instances do not allow us to operate our vessels profitably, our earnings and cash flows could remain at depressed levels or decline.  If these conditions continue for a prolonged period of time, they may leave us with insufficient cash resources to fund our operations or make required amortization payments under our credit facilities, which would potentially accelerate the repayment of our outstanding indebtedness.  Please refer to \"We may face liquidity issues if conditions in the drybulk market worsen for a prolonged period\" below for further details..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIf our earnings and cash flows remain at depressed levels or decline for a prolonged period of time, we may also breach one or more of the covenants in our credit facilities, including covenants relating to our minimum cash balance and our minimum working capital. This also would potentially accelerate the repayment of outstanding indebtedness..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWhile the market values of our vessels have increased during 2017, market values of our vessels could decrease in the future, which may cause us to recognize losses if any of our vessels are sold, scrapped or if their values are impaired.  Moreover, all of our credit facilities contain collateral maintenance covenants that depend on the appraised values of our vessels.  We currently are in compliance with all such covenants under our credit facilities but may not be in compliance if the appraised values of our vessels decline. The collateral maintenance covenants are not tested until June 30, 2018 under our $400 Million Credit Facility.  Please refer to \"The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could adversely affect our operating results\" below for further details..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur charterers may fail to meet their obligations under our time charter and freight agreements.. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and ability to continue as a going concern.. 26. Table of Contents. Freight and charterhire rates for drybulk carriers are currently at near historically low levels and may remain low or further decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings.. The prolonged downturn in the drybulk charter market, from which we derive the large majority of our revenues, has severely affected the drybulk shipping industry. The Baltic Dry Index (\"BDI\"), an index published by The Baltic Exchange of shipping rates for key drybulk routes, reached an all-time low of 290 during February 2016.  Since then, the BDI has show some improvement during 2017 reaching a high of 1,743 during December 2017.  The BDI remains volatile, and the economic conditions underlying its overall decline have not abated.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the drybulk charter market will recover in the near future, and the market could experience a further downturn.. The supply of and demand for shipping capacity strongly influences freight rates.  Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable.. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdemand for and production of drybulk products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tglobal and regional economic and political conditions, including developments in international trade, fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production and armed conflicts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe distance drybulk cargo is to be moved by sea;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenvironmental and other regulatory developments; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in seaborne and other transportation patterns.. Factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe number of newbuilding deliveries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tport and canal congestion;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe scrapping rate of older vessels;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvessel casualties;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconversion of vessels to other uses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe number of vessels that are out of service, i.e., laid-up, drydocked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenvironmental concerns and regulations. In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing fleet in the market and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations.  These factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions.. 27. Table of Contents. We anticipate that the future demand for drybulk carriers will continue to depend on economic growth in the world's economies, particularly China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargo to be transported by sea.  Adverse economic, political, social or other developments, including a change in worldwide fleet capacity, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and ability to continue as a going concern.. Oversupply of drybulk carrier capacity may lead to rate weakness or further reductions in freight rates, charterhire rates and profitability.. Although growth rates have slowed, the market supply of drybulk carriers has continued to increase as a result of the delivery of newbuilding orders, which peaked in 2007.  Scrapping of older vessels has not been sufficient to offset the delivery of such newbuildings.  Moreover, while the order book for new vessels has decreased since its peak in 2008, a slightly improved market environment has resulted in new orders being placed during the second half of 2017.  If the supply of newbuilding vessels outpaces the demand for vessels in the future, it could have a negative impact on freight rates and charterhire rates. If market conditions deteriorate, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels' current employment, we may only be able to employ our vessels at depressed or unprofitable rates, or we may not be able to employ these vessels at all.  The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and ability to continue as a going concern.. Prolonged declines in freight and charter rates, changes in the useful life of vessels, and other market deterioration could cause us to incur impairment charges.. We evaluate the carrying amounts of our vessels to determine if events have occurred that would require us to evaluate our vessels for an impairment of their carrying amounts. The recoverable amount of vessels is reviewed based on events and changes in circumstances that would indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recovered. The review for potential impairment indicators and projection of future cash flows related to the vessels is complex and requires us to make various estimates including future freight rates and earnings from the vessels. All of these items have been historically volatile.. We determine the recoverable amount of each vessel by estimating the undiscounted future cash flows associated with each vessel. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount of the vessel, the vessel is deemed impaired and such vessel would be written down to its fair value. The carrying values of our vessels may not represent their fair market value in the future because the new market prices of second-hand vessels tend to fluctuate with changes in freight and charter rates and the cost of newbuildings. Any impairment charges incurred as a result of declines in freight and charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and ability to continue as a going concern.. An economic slowdown, weakness, or changes in the economic and political environment in the Asia Pacific region could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. A significant number of the port calls made by our vessels involve the loading or discharging of raw materials and semi-finished products in ports in the Asia Pacific region.  As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, and particularly in China, India or Japan, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.  In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, although its rate of growth has been decreasing. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will not experience a significant contraction in the future.  To the extent the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic growth and urbanization, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these initiatives by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions.  Notwithstanding economic reform, the Chinese government may adopt policies that favor domestic drybulk shipping companies and may hinder our ability to compete with them effectively.  The Chinese government has also taken actions seen as protecting domestic industries such as coal or steel, which may reduce the demand for drybulk cargoes bound for China and negatively impact the drybulk industry.  Moreover, a significant or protracted slowdown in the economies of the United. 28. Table of Contents. States, the European Union or various Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere.  Our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries.. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental and operational safety laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income and could subject us to increased liability under applicable law or regulation.. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions and national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the countries of their registration.  Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with them or their impact on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels.  Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.  See \"Overview  -  Environmental and Other Regulation\" in Item 1, \"Business\" of this annual report for a discussion of such conventions, laws, and regulations.  We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to our operations.. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the ISM Code.  The ISM Code requires ship owners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive \"Safety Management System\" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies.  The failure of a ship owner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports.. The U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (\"OPA\") established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills.  OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the U.S., its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in U.S. waters.  OPA allows for liability without regard to fault of vessel owners, operators and demise charterers for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels, including bunkers, in U.S. waters.  Such liability is potentially unlimited in cases of willful misconduct or gross negligence.  OPA also expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution materials occurring within their boundaries, provided they accept, at a minimum, the levels of liability established under OPA.. On October 27, 2016, at MEPC 70, MEPC announced the results from a vote to ratify and formalize regulations mandating a reduction in sulfur emissions from 3.5% currently to 0.5% as of the beginning of 2020 rather than pushing the deadline back to 2025. By 2020 ships will now have to either remove sulfur from emissions through the use of emission scrubbers or buy fuel with low sulfur content. Scrubbers can cost $3-$5 million to install on existing ships.  If a vessel is not retrofitted with a scrubber, it will need to use low sulfur fuel, which is more expensive than standard marine fuel.  This increased demand for low sulfur fuel may result in an increase in prices for such fuel.. Recent action by the IMO's Maritime Safety Committee and U.S. agencies indicate that cybersecurity regulations for the maritime industry are likely to be further developed in the near future in an attempt to combat cybersecurity threats.  This might cause companies to cultivate additional procedures for monitoring cybersecurity, which could require additional expenses and/or capital expenditures.  However, the impact of such regulations is difficult to predict at this time.. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business.. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination.  Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of the contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us.. 29. Table of Contents. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us.  Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical.  Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. We operate our vessels worldwide and as a result, our vessels are exposed to international risks which could reduce revenue or increase expenses.. The international shipping industry is an inherently risky business involving global operations.  Our vessels will be at risk of damage or loss because of events such as mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, cargo loss and bad weather.  All these hazards can result in death or injury to persons, increased costs, loss of revenues, loss or damage to property (including cargo), environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, harm to our reputation as a safe and reliable operator and delay or rerouting.  In addition, changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism, labor strikes and boycotts.  Our vessels may operate in particularly dangerous areas, including areas of the South China Sea, the Arabian Sea, the Indian Ocean, the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, the Gulf of Guinea, and the Red Sea.  In November 2013, the government of the People's Republic of China announced an Air Defense Identification Zone, or ADIZ, covering much of the East China Sea. When introduced, the Chinese ADIZ was controversial because a number of nations are not honoring the ADIZ, and the ADIZ includes certain maritime areas that have been contested among various nations in the region. Tensions relating to the Chinese ADIZ may escalate as a result of incidents relating to the ADIZ or other territorial disputes, which may result in additional  limitations on navigation or trade.  These sorts of events could interfere with shipping routes and result in market disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. Our vessels may suffer damage, and we may face unexpected dry docking costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition.. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility.  The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial.  We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full.  In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located.  We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or we may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is distant from the relevant vessel's position.  The loss of earnings while our vessels are being repaired and repositioned or from being forced to wait for space or to travel to more distant drydocking facilities, as well as the actual cost of repairs, could negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks which could affect our earnings and cash flow.. The operation of certain ship types, such as drybulk carriers, has certain unique risks.  With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the vessel can be an operational risk.  By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure.  In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold) and small bulldozers.  This treatment may cause damage to the vessel.  Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea.  Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels' holds.  If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel's bulkheads, leading to the loss of a vessel.  If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels, we may be unable to prevent these events.  Any of these circumstances or events may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.  In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator.. 30. Table of Contents. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have continued and could adversely affect our business.. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Arabian Sea, the Indian Ocean, the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, the Gulf of Guinea, and the Red Sea.  Sea piracy incidents continue to occur particularly in the Gulf of Aden, the Gulf of Guinea and increasingly in Southeast Asia.  If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as \"war risk\" zones, or Joint War Committee (JWC) \"war and strikes\" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain, if available at all.  In addition, crew costs, including costs that may be incurred to the extent we employ onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances.  We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us.  In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. In response to piracy incidents, following consultation with regulatory authorities, we may station guards on some of our vessels in some instances. While our use of guards is intended to deter and prevent the hijacking of our vessels, it may also increase our risk of liability for death or injury to persons or damage to personal property. If we do not have adequate insurance in place to cover such liability, it could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Terrorist attacks continue to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Continuing conflicts and recent developments in the Middle East, and the presence of U.S. and other armed forces in the Middle East and Afghanistan, may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation, and financial condition.. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be costly and could reduce our net cash flows and net income.. The hull and machinery of commercial vessels must be certified as being \"in class\" by a classification society authorized by its country of registry.  The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the SOLAS Convention.  Our vessels are currently enrolled with the ABS, DNVGL, or Lloyd's, each of which is a member of the IACS. Further, to trade internationally, a vessel must attain an ISSC from a recognized security organization.. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys.  In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be placed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period.  Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection.  Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every five years during the special survey.  For vessels that are less than 15 years old, intermediate surveys can be performed in the form of in-water examination of its underwater parts every two to three years.  For vessels that are older than 15 years, the vessel is required to be drydocked during the intermediate survey as well as the special survey.. If any vessel does not maintain its class or fails any annual, intermediate or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable and we could be in violation of certain covenants in our credit facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. 31. Table of Contents. If our vessels call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, that could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our common shares.. All of our charters with customers contain restrictions prohibiting our vessels from entering any countries or conducting any trade prohibited by the United States. However, there is no assurance that, on such charterers' instructions, our vessels will not call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions or embargoes imposed by the U.S. government or countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Iran, Sudan and Syria. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there is no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, and other applicable worldwide anti-corruption laws.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and other applicable worldwide anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  These laws include the U.K.  Bribery Act, which became effective on July 1, 2011 and which is broader in scope than the FCPA, as it contains no facilitating payments exception.  We charter our vessels into some jurisdictions that international corruption monitoring groups have identified as having high levels of corruption.  Our activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws.  Our policies mandate compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws.  Although we have policies, procedures and internal controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance, we cannot assure that our policies and procedures will protect us from governmental investigations or inquiries surrounding actions of our employees or agents.  If we are found to be liable for violations of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions.. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate our business.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel.  In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work.  Competition to attract and retain qualified crew members is intense.  If we are not able to increase our rates to compensate for any crew cost increases, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.  Any inability our third-party technical managers or we experience in the future to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. Labor interruptions could disrupt our business.. Our vessels are manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by third parties.  If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out normally and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. 32. Table of Contents. The smuggling of drugs or other contraband onto our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us.. We expect that our vessels will call in ports in South America and other areas where smugglers attempt to hide drugs and other contraband on vessels, with or without the knowledge of crew members.  To the extent our vessels are found with contraband, whether inside or attached to the hull of our vessel and whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. Arrests of our vessels by maritime claimants could cause a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period.. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages.  In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by \"arresting\" or \"attaching\" a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period.  In addition, in jurisdictions where the \"sister ship\" theory of liability applies, a claimant may arrest the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any \"associated\" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner.  In countries with \"sister ship\" liability laws, claims might be asserted against us or any of our vessels for liabilities of other vessels that we own.. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings.. A government of a vessel's registry could requisition for title or seize our vessels.  Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner.  A government could also requisition our vessels for hire.  Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates.  Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency.  Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. Changes in fuel prices could adversely affect our profits.. From time to time, we operate vessels on spot market voyage charters either directly or by placing them in pools with similar vessels.  Spot market voyage charter arrangements generally provide that the vessel owner or pool operator bear the cost of fuel in the form of bunkers, which is a significant expense of operating the vessel.  We currently have 22 vessels operating in on spot market voyage charters and we may arrange for more vessels to do so, depending on market conditions.  Depending on the timing of increases in the price of fuel and market conditions, we or pool operators with whom we contract, may be unable to pass along increases in fuel prices to our customers.  Currently, some of our vessels are operating on spot market voyage charters and some are operating under standard time charter arrangements.  Under standard time charter arrangements, the charterer bears the cost of fuel in the form of bunkers.  At the commencement of a charter, the charterer purchases fuel from us at the then-prevailing market rates, and we are obligated to repurchase fuel at that same initial rate when the charterer redelivers the vessel back to us. Market rates at the time the charterer redelivers the vessel to us after completion of the charter (including any direct continuations) may be more or less than the prevailing market rates at the commencement of the charter.  In certain of our short-term time charter agreements, we sell the charterer the amount of the bunkers actually consumed and the charterer is required to redeliver the vessel to us without replenishment of the bunkers consumed. We believe the staggered nature of time charter expirations and the cyclical nature of fuel prices over time should reduce the risk of these repurchase obligations.  However, the date of redelivery of vessels and fluctuations in the price and supply of fuel are unpredictable and therefore these arrangements could result in losses or reductions in working capital that are beyond our control. As is customary in our industry, we currently do not use hedging agreements on fuel to mitigate these risks.  With respect to time charter agreements, we believe the variable expiration of the relevant contracts makes hedging agreements impractical or uneconomic.  As we seek to expand customer relationships with cargo providers, we will re-evaluate the possibility of entering into hedging agreements on fuel to mitigate these risks.. Given that under certain arrangements with short-term or spot market voyage charters, the vessel owner or pool operator may bear the cost of fuel, the recent volatility in fuel prices could be a factor affecting profitability in these. 33. Table of Contents. arrangements. To profitably price an individual charter, the vessel owner or pool operator must take into account the anticipated cost of fuel for the duration of the charter. Changes in the actual price of fuel at the time the charter is to be performed could result in the charter being performed at a significantly greater or lesser profit than originally anticipated or even result in a loss.. Our results of operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial condition.. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, freight and charter rates.  This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, depending on when we enter into our time charters or if our vessels trade on the spot market.  The drybulk sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months.  As a result, our revenues could be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and conversely, our revenue could be stronger during the quarters ended December 31 and March 31.  This seasonality could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. Company Specific Risk Factors. We may face liquidity issues if conditions in the drybulk market worsen for a prolonged period.. While supply and demand fundamentals have improved during 2017, persistent, historically low rates prior to 2017 in the drybulk shipping market resulted in decreases in our prior period revenues.  As a result, we experienced negative cash flows, and in turn, our liquidity has been negatively impacted.   While we have recently refinanced or amended our credit facilities and conducted an equity raise, if the market environment declines over a prolonged period of time, we may have insufficient liquidity to fund ongoing operations or satisfy our obligations under our credit facilities, which may lead to a default under one or more of our credit facilities.. If we are in default of any of our credit facilities, the repayment of our indebtedness under the relevant facility could potentially be accelerated.   In addition, each of our credit facilities contain cross default provisions that could be triggered by a default under any of our other credit facilities, with the result that the repayment of some or all of our indebtedness could potentially be accelerated.. As a result, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, ability to pay dividends, and we may cease to continue as a going concern.  For a further discussion of our liquidity issues, see \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation\" below.. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could adversely affect our operating results.. If the book value of one of our vessels is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, we would incur a loss that could adversely affect our financial results.  Refer to the \"Impairment of long-lived assets\" section under the heading \"Critical Accounting Policies\" in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation\" for further information.  The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. Our earnings will be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels.. As of February 27, 2018, approximately 43% of our vessels were in arrangements in which they were trading at spot market rates through spot market voyage charters or spot market-related time charters.  Twenty-two of our vessels were engaged under spot market voyage charterer and four of our vessels were engaged under spot market-related time charter contracts as of such date.  Lastly, 30 of the vessels in our fleet were engaged under fixed rate time charters as of such date.  All of the charter contracts for our vessels expire (assuming the option periods in the time charters are not exercised) between February 2018 and November 2018. The charterhire rates for our vessels have sometimes declined. 34. Table of Contents. below the operating costs of our vessels.  Because we currently charter most of our vessels on spot market voyage charters and spot market-related time charters, we are exposed to the cyclicality and volatility of the spot charter market, and we do not have significant long-term, fixed-rate time charters to ameliorate the adverse effects of downturns in the spot market. Capesize vessels, which we operate as part of our fleet, have been particularly susceptible to weakness in spot charter rates.. To the extent our vessels trade in the spot charter market, we may experience fluctuations in revenue, cash flow and net income.  The spot charter market is highly competitive, and spot market voyage charter rates may fluctuate dramatically based primarily on the worldwide supply of drybulk vessels available in the market and the worldwide demand for the transportation of drybulk cargoes.  We can provide no assurance that future freight rates and charterhire rates will enable us to operate our vessels profitably.  In addition, our standard time charter contracts with our customers specify certain performance parameters, which if not met can result in customer claims.  Such claims may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. To the extent our vessels are engaged under spot market voyages, we will face operational risks because we will be responsible for delays in delivery of the cargo, which may be due to issues with weather, the breakdown of a vessel, congestion at the port of delivery, or other factors that may be beyond our control.  Such delays can result in customer claims.  In addition, spot market voyages will require us to make payments directly to third parties that our charters would ordinarily make under chartering arrangements.   Such arrangements carry a risk of disputes and fraud by third parties.  As a result of any of these circumstances, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. The revenues we earn may depend on the success and profitability of any vessel pools in which our vessels operate.. We may deploy our vessels in one or more vessel pools from time to time as part of our chartering strategy.  Chartering arrangements for our vessels deployed in a pool are handled by the commercial manager of the pool. The profitability of our vessels operating in vessel pools will depend upon the pool managers' ability to successfully implement a profitable chartering strategy, which could include, among other things, obtaining favorable charters and employing vessels in the pool efficiently in order to service those charters. The pool's profitability will also depend on minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo. Furthermore, should an incident occur that negatively affects a pool's revenues or should a pool underperform, then our profitability will be negatively impacted as a result. Commercial managers of pools typically exercise significant control and discretion over the operation of the pool, and our success and profitability will depend on the success of the pools in which we participate, particularly if we transition to a new pool. If vessels from other owners which enter into pools in which we participate are not of comparable design or quality to our vessels, or if the owners of such other vessels negotiate for greater pool weightings than those obtained by us, this could negatively impact the profitability of the pools in which we participate or dilute our interest in pool profits. If we wish to withdraw a vessel from a pool, we are required to give advance notice and the agreements we enter into with pools in which we participate may provide the applicable pool the right to defer withdrawal of our vessels. If the commercial manager of the pools in which we participate were to cease serving in such capacity, the pools may not be able to find a replacement commercial manager who will be as successful as the current commercial manager in chartering vessels and who may not have the same customer relationships. Additionally, were we to seek to assume direct commercial management of these vessels, either by choice or because of our failure to negotiate or maintain favorable terms with a profitable and well-managed pool, we may face similar challenges.. Restrictive covenants under our credit facilities may restrict our growth and operations.. Our credit facilities impose operating and financial restrictions that may limit our ability to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tutilize cash above a certain amount as a result of cash sweeps;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all;. 35. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur liens on our assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsell our vessels or the capital stock of our subsidiaries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake investments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tengage in mergers or acquisitions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake capital expenditures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompete effectively to the extent our competitors are subject to less onerous financial restrictions; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchange the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to any of our vessels.. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders' permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest and from executing our business strategy of growth through acquisitions and may restrict or limit our ability to pay dividends and finance our future operations.. We depend upon ten charterers for a large part of our revenues.  The loss of one or more of these charterers or any other significant customers could adversely affect our financial performance.. We have derived a significant part of our revenues from a small number of charterers.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 56% of our revenues were derived from ten charterers. Of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 15% and 11% of our revenues were derived from two charterers, Swissmarine and Clipper, respectively.  While we are seeking to expand customer relationships with cargo providers, this may not sufficiently diversify our customer base to mitigate this risk.  If we were to lose any of our major customers, or if any of them significantly reduced its use of our services or was unable to make payments to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. The aging of our fleet and our practice of purchasing and operating previously owned vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings.. The majority of our drybulk carriers were previously owned by third parties.  We may seek additional growth through the acquisition of previously owned vessels.  While we typically inspect previously owned vessels before purchase, this does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us.  Accordingly, we may not discover defects or other problems with such vessels before purchase.  Any such hidden defects or problems, when detected, may be expensive to repair, and if not detected, may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties.  Also, when purchasing previously owned vessels, we do not receive the benefit of any builder warranties if the vessels we buy are older than one year.. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel.  The average age of the vessels in our current fleet is approximately 9.9 years.  Older vessels are typically less fuel-efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology and cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers.. Governmental regulations, safety and other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to some of our vessels and may restrict the type of. 36. Table of Contents. activities in which these vessels may engage.  We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives.  As a result, regulations and standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. An increase in operating costs or interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition.. Our vessel operating expenses include the costs of crewing and insurance.  In addition, to the extent we enter the spot charter market, we would incur the cost of bunkers as part of our voyage expenses.  The price of bunker fuel may be volatile over the relatively short periods of spot charters and may increase in the future.  If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility.  The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial.  Moreover, we expect that the cost of maintenance and drydocking will increase as our fleet ages.  Increases in any of these costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. We are also subject to market risks relating to changes in LIBOR rates because we have significant amounts of floating rate debt outstanding.  Moreover, in the recent past, concerns have been publicized that some of the member banks surveyed by the British Bankers' Association (\"BBA\") in connection with the calculation of LIBOR may have been underreporting or otherwise manipulating the inter-bank lending rate applicable to them. A number of BBA member banks entered into settlements with their regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to alleged LIBOR manipulation, and investigations by regulators and governmental authorities in various jurisdictions are ongoing.  In addition, on July 27, 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021.  It is not currently possible to predict the effect of any establishment of alternative reference rates or any other reforms to LIBOR that may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere.  If LIBOR or any alternative reference rate were to increase significantly, the amount of interest payable on our outstanding indebtedness could increase significantly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. We depend to a significant degree upon third-party managers to provide the technical management of our fleet.  Any failure of these technical managers to perform their obligations to us could adversely affect our business.. We have contracted the technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair services, to third-party technical management companies.  The failure of these technical managers to perform their obligations could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.  Although we may have rights against our third-party managers if they default on their obligations to us, our shareholders will share that recourse only indirectly to the extent that we recover funds.. In the highly competitive international drybulk shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources.. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented.  Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do.  Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargoes can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its managers to the charterers.  Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets than we are able to offer.. We are currently prohibited from paying dividends or repurchasing our stock and may not do so when the prohibitions expire.. We are currently prohibited from paying dividends under certain of our facilities other than limited dividend amounts attributable to wholly-owned, non-recourse subsidiaries that meet certain criteria under our credit facilities.  The longest such restriction is in effect until December 31, 2020.  Following December 31, 2020, the amount of dividends we may pay is generally limited based on the amount of our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents as. 37. Table of Contents. compared to the minimum liquidity amount in effect from time to time under the $400 Million Credit Facility and the 2014 Term Loan Facilities, the repayment of at least $25 million of the loan under the $98 Million Credit Facility, and the ratio of the value of vessels and certain other collateral pledged under each of our credit facilities to the amount of the loan outstanding under such facility.  In addition, under the $98 Million Credit Facility, dividends may only be paid out of excess cash flow of Genco and its subsidiaries (as defined in such facility).. Moreover, we would make dividend payments to our shareholders only if our Board of Directors, acting in its sole discretion, determines that such payments would be in our best interest and in compliance with relevant legal and contractual requirements.  The principal business factors that our Board of Directors would consider when determining the timing and amount of dividend payments would be our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements at the time.  Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the declaration and payment of dividends other than from surplus.  Marshall Islands law also prohibits the declaration and payment of dividends while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend.. We may incur other expenses or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends.  We may also enter into new agreements or the Marshall Islands or another jurisdiction may adopt laws or regulations that place additional restrictions on our ability to pay dividends.  If we do not pay dividends, the return on your investment would be limited to the price at which you could sell your shares.. We may not be able to grow or effectively manage our growth, which could cause us to incur additional indebtedness and other liabilities and adversely affect our business.. We may seek growth by expanding our business.  Our future growth will depend on a number of factors, some of which we can control and some of which we cannot.  These factors include our ability to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tidentify vessels for acquisition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconsummate acquisitions or establish joint ventures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tintegrate acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpand our customer base; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtain required financing for our existing and new operations.. Currently, there is no availability under our existing credit facilities.  These limitations place significant restrictions on financing that we could use for our growth.. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, including undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures.  Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.  In addition, competition from other buyers for vessels could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay.  We cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with these plans.. We currently maintain all of our cash and cash equivalents with three financial institutions, which subjects us to credit risk.. We currently maintain all of our cash and cash equivalents with three financial institutions.  None of our balances are covered by insurance in the event of default by the financial institutions.  The occurrence of such a default of any of these institutions could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 38. Table of Contents. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to continue to operate some of our vessels, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay dividends.. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities.  Our ability to borrow money and access the capital markets through future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control.  Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures would limit our ability to continue to operate some of our vessels or impair the value of our vessels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to pay dividends.  Even if we are successful in obtaining such funds through financings, the terms of such financings could further limit our ability to pay dividends.. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or to make dividend payments.. We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries, which are all wholly owned by us, either directly or indirectly, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets.  We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our wholly owned subsidiaries.  As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and to pay dividends to our shareholders depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us.  In turn, the ability of our subsidiaries to make dividend payments to us will be dependent on them having profits available for distribution and, to the extent that we are unable to obtain dividends from our subsidiaries, this will limit the discretion of our Board of Directors to pay or recommend the payment of dividends.. We are at risk for the creditworthiness of our charterers.. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, or market conditions affecting the time charter market and the credit markets, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that may be required to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital.  Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. If management is unable to continue to provide reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to continue to provide us with unqualified attestation reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting if required, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock.. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in this and each of our future annual reports on Form 10-K a report containing our management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and, if we are an accelerated or large accelerated filer, a related attestation of our independent registered public accounting firm.  As disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, as amended, management concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2014 as a result of internal control design deficiencies limited to certain aspects of our implementation of fresh-start accounting.  Our independent registered public accounting firm's attestation report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting was adverse as a result.  If, in such future annual reports on Form 10-K, our management cannot provide a report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified attestation report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting if required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our Consolidated Financial Statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock.. 39. Table of Contents. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our performance may be adversely affected.. Our current financial and operating systems may not be adequate as we implement our plan to expand the size of our fleet, and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective.  In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will have to rely on our outside technical managers to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shore-based administrative and management personnel.  We cannot assure you that our outside technical managers will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet.. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations.. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team and our ability to hire and retain key members of our management team.  The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition.  Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.  We do not intend to maintain \"key man\" life insurance on any of our officers.. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose our vessels or to compensate third parties.. There are a number of risks associated with the operation of ocean-going vessels, including mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, property loss, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes.  Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows.  In addition, the operation of any vessel is subject to the inherent possibility of marine disaster, including oil spills and other environmental mishaps, and the liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade.. We are insured against tort claims and some contractual claims (including claims related to environmental damage and pollution) through memberships in protection and indemnity associations or clubs, or P&I Associations.  As a result of such membership, the P&I Associations provide us coverage for such tort and contractual claims.  We also carry hull and machinery insurance and war risk insurance for our fleet.  We insure our vessels for third-party liability claims subject to and in accordance with the rules of the P&I Associations in which the vessels are entered.  We currently maintain insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel.  We can give no assurance that we will be adequately insured against all risks.  We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future.  The insurers may not pay particular claims.  Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our insurance policies on the same or commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in the future.  For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, protection and indemnity insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution.  Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.  In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations.  Further, we cannot assure you that our insurance policies will cover all losses that we incur, or that disputes over insurance claims will not arise with our insurance carriers.  Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material.  In addition, our insurance policies are subject to limitations and exclusions, which may increase our costs or lower our revenues, thereby possibly having a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.. 40. Table of Contents. We are subject to funding calls by our protection and indemnity associations, and our associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them.. We are indemnified for legal liabilities incurred while operating our vessels through membership in P&I Associations.  P&I Associations are mutual insurance associations whose members must contribute to cover losses sustained by other association members.  The objective of a P&I Association is to provide mutual insurance based on the aggregate tonnage of a member's vessels entered into the association.  Claims are paid through the aggregate premiums of all members of the association, although members remain subject to calls for additional funds if the aggregate premiums are insufficient to cover claims submitted to the association. Claims submitted to the association may include those incurred by members of the association, as well as claims submitted to the association from other P&I Associations with which our P&I Association has entered into interassociation agreements.  We cannot assure you that the P&I Associations to which we belong will remain viable or that we will not become subject to additional funding calls which could adversely affect us.. In 2018, we expect to pay U.S. tax on U.S. source income and income tax in Singapore and may be subject to U.S. tax on any gain on the sale of vessels, which will reduce our net income and cash flows.. If we do not qualify for an exemption pursuant to Section 883 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the \"Code\" (which we refer to as the \"Section 883 exemption\"), then we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our shipping income that is derived from U.S. sources.  If we are subject to such tax, our net income and cash flows would be reduced by the amount of such tax.. We will qualify for the Section 883 exemption if, among other things, (i) our stock is treated as primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the United States (which we refer to as the \"publicly traded test\"), or (ii) we satisfy the qualified shareholder test or (iii) we satisfy the controlled foreign corporation test (which we refer to as the \"CFC test\").  Under applicable Treasury Regulations, the publicly-traded test cannot be satisfied in any taxable year in which persons who actually or constructively own 5% or more of our stock (which we sometimes refer to as \"5% shareholders\"), together own 50% or more of our stock (by vote and value) for more than half the days in such year (which we sometimes refer to as the \"five percent override rule\"), unless an exception applies.  A foreign corporation satisfies the qualified shareholder test if more than 50% of the value of its outstanding shares is owned (or treated as owned by applying certain attribution rules) for at least half of the number of days in the foreign corporation's taxable year by one or more \"qualified shareholders.\"  A qualified shareholder includes a foreign corporation that, among other things, satisfies the publicly traded test.  A foreign corporation satisfies the CFC test if it is a \"controlled foreign corporation\" and one or more qualified U.S. persons own more than 50 percent of the total value of all the outstanding stock.. Based on the ownership and trading of our stock in 2017, we believe that we did not satisfy the publicly traded test, the qualified shareholder test, or the CFC test, and therefore did not qualify for the Section 883 exemption in 2017. As such, our U.S. source shipping income, i.e., 50% of our gross shipping income attributable to transportation beginning or ending in the U.S., was subject to a 4% tax without allowance for deductions (which we sometimes refer to as the \"U.S. gross transportation income tax\").  With respect to application of the publicly traded test for 2018, more than 50% of our stock (by vote and value) is owned by 5% shareholders as of the date of this report.  Absent changes in the ownership of our stock, we do not anticipate satisfying the publicly traded test in 2018 either.  We also do not anticipate satisfying the qualified shareholder or CFC test.  Thus, absent changes in the ownership of our stock, we do not anticipate qualifying for the Section 883 exemption for 2018 as of the date of this report.  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded $0.4 million of estimated U.S. gross transportation tax which has been recorded in Voyage Expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.  Refer to Note 2  -  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.. To the extent Genco's U.S. source shipping income, or other U.S. source income, is considered to be effectively connected income, as described below, any such income, net of applicable deductions, would be subject to the U.S. federal corporate income tax, currently imposed at at 21% rate. In addition, Genco may be subject to a 30% \"branch profits\" tax on such income, and on certain interest paid or deemed paid attributable to the conduct of such trade or business.  Shipping income is generally sourced 100% to the United States if attributable to transportation exclusively. 41. Table of Contents. between United States ports (Genco is prohibited from conducting such voyages), 50% to the United States if attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but does not both begin and end, in the United States and otherwise 0% to the United States.. Genco's U.S. source shipping income would be considered effectively connected income only if:. 뷛enco has, or is considered to have, a fixed place of business in the U.S. involved in the earning of U.S. source shipping income; and. 븉ubstantially all of Genco's U.S. source shipping income is attributable to regularly scheduled transportation, such as the operation of a vessel that follows a published schedule with repeated sailings at regular intervals between the same points for voyages that begin or end in the U.S.. Genco does not intend to have, or permit circumstances that would result in having, any vessel sailing to or from the U.S. on a regularly scheduled basis. Based on the current shipping operations of Genco and Genco's expected future shipping operations and other activities, Genco believes that none of its U.S. source shipping income will constitute effectively connected income. However, Genco may from time to time generate non-shipping income that may be treated as effectively connected income.. If Genco qualifies for the Section 883 exemption in respect of its shipping income, gain from the sale of a vessel likewise should be exempt from tax under Section 883 of the Code. If, however, Genco's shipping income does not, for whatever reason, qualify for the Section 883 exemption, and assuming that any gain derived from the sale of a vessel is attributable to Genco's U.S. office, as Genco believes would likely be the case, such gain would likely be treated as effectively connected income (determined under rules different from those discussed above) and subject to the net income and branch profits tax regime described above.. Additionally, during 2017, we established Genco Shipping Pte. Ltd. which is based in Singapore and will be subject to income tax in Singapore.  During the year ended December 31, 2017, there was no income tax recorded by Genco Shipping Pte. Ltd.. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a \"passive foreign investment company,\" which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders.. A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a \"passive foreign investment company,\" which we sometimes refer to as a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if, after applying certain look through rules, either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of \"passive income\" or (2) at least 50% of the average value or adjusted bases of its assets (determined on a quarterly basis) produce or are held for the production of passive income, i.e., \"passive assets.\"  U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to distributions they receive from the PFIC and gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their stock in the PFIC.. For purposes of these tests, \"passive income\" generally includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business, as defined in applicable Treasury Regulations.  Income derived from the performance of services does not constitute \"passive income.\" By contrast, rental income would generally constitute passive income unless such income was treated under specific rules as derived from the active conduct of a trade or business.  We do not believe that our past or existing operations would cause, or would have caused, us to be deemed a PFIC with respect to any taxable year.  In this regard, we treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time and spot chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income.  Accordingly, we believe that (1) our income from our time and spot chartering activities does not constitute passive income and (2) the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets.. 42. Table of Contents. While there is no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation, there is legal authority supporting this position consisting of pronouncements by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (which we sometimes refer to as the \"IRS\"), concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes.  However, it should be noted that there is also legal authority, consisting of case law, which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes.. No assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC.  Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in any future taxable year because the PFIC test is an annual test, there are uncertainties in the application of the PFIC rules, and although we intend to manage our business so as to avoid PFIC status to the extent consistent with our other business goals, there could be changes in the nature and extent of our operations in future taxable years.. If we were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year (and regardless of whether we remain a PFIC for subsequent taxable years), our U.S. shareholders would face adverse U.S. tax consequences.  Under the PFIC rules, unless a shareholder makes certain elections available under the Code (which elections could themselves have adverse consequences for such shareholder), such shareholder would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the highest applicable ordinary income tax rates upon the receipt of excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, plus interest on such amounts, as if such excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our common stock.. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations.. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars, but we may incur drydocking costs, voyage expenses (including port costs, etc), special survey fees and other expenses in other currencies.  If our expenditures on such costs and fees were significant, and the U.S. dollar were weak against such currencies, our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected.. Legislative action relating to taxation could materially and adversely affect us.. Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority. For example, legislative proposals have been introduced in the U.S. Congress which, if enacted, could change the circumstances under which we would be treated as a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position and require us to take action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve our effective tax rate and cash tax position. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals.  Furthermore, on December 22,. 2017, President Trump signed into law P.L. 115-97, informally titled the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which makes significant changes to U.S. federal tax laws. The impact of these provisions on our operations and on our shareholders is. uncertain and may not become evident for some period of time.. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK. Certain shareholders own large portions of our outstanding common stock, which may limit your ability to influence our actions.. Certain shareholders currently hold significant percentages of our common stock. As of February 28, 2018,  affiliates of Centerbridge Partners, L.P. owned approximately 30.4%; affiliates of Apollo Global Management owned approximately 15.7%; and affiliates of Strategic Value Partners, LLC owned approximately 29.4% of our common stock.. To the extent a significant percentage of the ownership of our common stock is concentrated in a small number of holders, such holders will be able to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, including the election of. 43. Table of Contents. directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our articles of incorporation or by-laws and possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions.  This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us.  This concentration of ownership could also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights or protections that a shareholder in a United States corporation may have.. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law and may make it more difficult for our shareholders to protect their interests.  Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA.  The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States.  The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions and there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA.  Shareholder rights may differ as well.  While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction.  Therefore, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests as a shareholder in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction.. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. The market price of our common stock could decline due to sales of a large number of shares in the market, including sales of shares by our large shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur.  These sales could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common stock.. We entered into a registration rights agreement that provides parties who received 10% or more of our common stock in our reorganization with demand and piggyback registration rights. This agreement was amended and restated in connection with our $125 million equity raise to cover shares issued to Centerbridge, SVP, and Apollo.  We entered into an additional registration rights agreement that required us to file a resale registration statement to cover the shares issued in such equity raise.  Such registration statement became effective on January 18, 2017 with respect to the resale of 27,061,856 shares of our common stock.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all or which may dilute our common stock or adversely affect its market price.. We may require additional capital to expand our business and increase revenues, add liquidity in response to negative economic conditions, meet unexpected liquidity needs caused by industry volatility or uncertainty and reduce our outstanding indebtedness under our existing facilities. To the extent that our existing capital and borrowing capabilities are insufficient to meet these requirements and cover any losses, we will need to raise additional funds through debt or equity financings, including offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, or rights to acquire our common stock or curtail our growth and reduce our assets or restructure arrangements with existing security holders. Any equity or debt financing, or additional borrowings, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could result in dilution to our stockholders, as described further below, and the securities issued in future financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms if and when needed, we may not be able to take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements.. 44. Table of Contents. Future issuances of our common stock could dilute our shareholders' interests in our company.. We may, from time to time, issue additional shares of common stock to support our growth strategy, reduce debt or provide us with capital for other purposes that our Board of Directors believes to be in our best interest.  To the extent that an existing shareholder does not purchase additional shares that we may issue, that shareholder's interest in our company will be diluted, which means that its percentage of ownership in our company will be reduced.  Following such a reduction, that shareholder's common stock would represent a smaller percentage of the vote in our Board of Directors' elections and other shareholder decisions.. Volatility in the market price and trading volume of our common stock could adversely impact the trading price of our common stock.. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies like us. These broad market factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock, which has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent months, could continue to fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risks described herein or for reasons unrelated to our operations, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions or negative announcements by our competitors or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as industry conditions and general financial, economic and political instability. A decrease in the market price of our common stock would adversely impact the value of your shares of common stock.. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws may have anti-takeover effects which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws, which are summarized below, may have anti-takeover effects.  These provisions are intended to avoid costly takeover battles, lessen our vulnerability to a hostile change of control and enhance the ability of our Board of Directors to maximize shareholder value in connection with any unsolicited offer to acquire our company.  However, these anti-takeover provisions could also discourage, delay or prevent (1) the merger or acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise that a shareholder may consider in its best interest and (2) the removal of incumbent officers and directors.. Election and Removal of Directors.. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors.  Our by-laws require parties other than the board of directors to give advance written notice of nominations for the election of directors.  These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent the removal of incumbent officers and directors.. Limited Actions by Shareholders.. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our by-laws provide that, consistent with Marshall Islands law, any action required or permitted to be taken by our shareholders must be effected at an annual or special meeting of shareholders or by the unanimous written consent of our shareholders.  Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our by-laws provide that, subject to certain exceptions, our Chairman, President, or Secretary at the direction of the Board of Directors or our Secretary at the request of one or more shareholders that hold in the aggregate at least a majority of our outstanding shares entitled to vote may call special meetings of our shareholders, and the business transacted at the special meeting is limited to the purposes stated in the notice.. Advance Notice Requirements for Shareholder Proposals and Director Nominations.. Our by-laws provide that shareholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of their proposal in writing to the. 45. Table of Contents. corporate secretary.  Generally, to be timely, a shareholder's notice must be received at our principal executive offices not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days before the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders.  Our by-laws also specify requirements as to the form and content of a shareholder's notice.  These provisions may impede a shareholder's ability to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders or make nominations for directors at an annual meeting of shareholders.. It may not be possible for our investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us.. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands and most of our subsidiaries are also organized in the Marshall Islands.  Substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the United States.  As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for United States shareholders to serve process within the United States upon us or to enforce judgment upon us for civil liabilities in United States courts.  In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we are incorporated or where our assets are located (1) would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against us based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable United States federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us based upon these laws.. Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations and expose us to liability which could materially adversely impact our business.. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. Additionally, we collect and store certain data, including proprietary business information and customer and employee data, and may have access to confidential information in the conduct of our business. Despite our cybersecurity measures (including monitoring of networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems) which are continuously reviewed and upgraded, our information technology networks and infrastructure may still be vulnerable to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to attack by hackers or breaches, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events. Any such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties under privacy laws, disruption in operations, and damage to our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
