[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us:. If we do not deliver new products, services and customer experiences in response to new participants in the automotive industry, our business could suffer.  We believe that the automotive industry will experience significant and continued change in the coming years. In addition to our traditional competitors, we must also be responsive to the entrance of non-traditional participants in the automotive industry. Industry participants are seeking to disrupt the historic business model of the industry through the introduction of new technologies, new products or services, new business models or new methods of travel. It is strategically significant that we lead the technological disruption occurring in our industry. To successfully execute our long-term strategy, we must continue to develop new products and services, including products and services that are outside of our historically core business, such as autonomous and electric vehicles, data monetization and transportation as a service. The process of designing and developing new technology, products and services is complex, costly, and uncertain and requires extensive capital investment and the ability to retain and recruit talent. In some cases the technologies that we plan to employ are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by our suppliers. There can be no assurance that advances in technology will occur in a timely or feasible way, or that others will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or that we will acquire technologies on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. If we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond to new kinds of technological innovations, market developments and changing customer needs, our sales, profitability and long-term competitiveness may be harmed.. Our ability to maintain profitability is dependent upon our ability to timely fund and introduce new and improved vehicle models that are able to attract a sufficient number of consumers.  We operate in a very competitive industry with market participants routinely introducing new and improved vehicle models designed to meet rapidly evolving consumer expectations. Producing new and improved vehicle models competitively and preserving our reputation for designing, building and selling safe high quality cars and trucks is critical to our long-term profitability. Successful launches of our new vehicles are critical to our short-term profitability.. It generally takes two years or more to design and develop a new vehicle, and a number of factors may lengthen that time period. Because of this product development cycle and the various elements that may contribute to consumers' acceptance of new vehicle designs, including competitors' product introductions, technological innovations, fuel prices, general economic conditions and changes in quality, safety, reliability and styling demands and preferences, an initial product concept or design may not result in a vehicle that generates sales in sufficient quantities and at high enough prices to be profitable. Our high proportion of fixed costs, both due to our significant investment in property, plant and equipment as well as other requirements of our collective bargaining agreements, which limit our flexibility to adjust personnel costs to changes in demands for our products, may further exacerbate the risks associated with incorrectly assessing demand for our vehicles.. Our profitability is dependent upon the success of crossovers, SUVs and full-size pick-up trucks.  While we offer a balanced and complete portfolio of small, mid-size and large cars, crossovers, SUVs and trucks, we generally recognize higher profit margins on our crossovers, SUVs and trucks. Our success is dependent upon our ability to sell higher margin vehicles in sufficient volumes. Any shift in consumer preferences toward smaller, more fuel efficient vehicles, whether as a result of increases in the price of oil or any sustained shortage of oil, including as a result of global political instability or other reasons, could weaken the demand for our higher margin vehicles.. We must successfully address and reduce the costs associated with the manufacture and sale of electric vehicles.  We anticipate that electric vehicle sales will become increasingly important to our business. The inability to reduce the costs associated with the manufacture and sale of electric vehicles may negatively impact our earnings and financial condition. In addition, we currently. 10. Table of Contents. GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES. benefit from certain government and economic incentives supporting the development and adoption of electric vehicles. The benefits from these incentives could be reduced, eliminated or exhausted, which may negatively affect our ability to sell electric vehicles in sufficient quantities and at high enough prices to be profitable.. Our business is highly dependent upon global automobile market sales volume, which can be volatile.  Because we have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, small changes in sales volume can have a disproportionately large effect on our profitability. A number of economic and market conditions drive changes in vehicle sales, including real estate values, levels of unemployment, availability of affordable financing, fluctuations in the cost of fuel, consumer confidence, political unrest and global economic conditions. For discussion of economic and market trends, see the Overview section of Item 7. We cannot predict future economic and market conditions with certainty.. Our significant business in China subjects us to unique operational, competitive and regulatory risks  Maintaining a strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. Our business in China is subject to aggressive competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous domestic manufacturers. As the size of the Chinese market continues to increase we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the Chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and challenges to gain or hold market share.. In addition to increased competition, Chinese regulators have announced aggressive policy initiatives and quotas for the sale of electric vehicles.. Certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in China are solely within the control of the Chinese government, and Chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within China. In order to maintain access to the Chinese market, we may be required to comply with significant technical and other regulatory requirements that are unique to the Chinese market, at times with challenging lead-time to implement such requirements. These actions may increase the cost of doing business in China and reduce our profitability.. A significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit.  Many of our operations, primarily in China, are carried out by joint ventures. In joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. Joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions that must further take into consideration our partners' interests. In joint ventures we are required to foster our relationships with our co-owners as well as promote the overall success of the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, relationships deteriorate or strategic objectives diverge, our success in the joint venture may be materially adversely affected. The benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, therefore we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. In addition, because we share ownership and management with one or more parties, we may have limited control over the actions of a joint venture, particularly when we own a minority interest. As a result, we may be unable to prevent misconduct or other violations of applicable laws by a joint venture. Moreover, a joint venture may not follow the same requirements regarding compliance, internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. To the extent another party makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control issues arise within the joint venture, we may have to take responsive or other action or we may be subject to penalties, fines or other related actions for these activities.. The international scale and footprint of our operations exposes us to additional risks.  We manufacture, sell and service products globally and rely upon a global supply chain to deliver the raw materials, components, systems and parts that we need to manufacture our products. Our global operations subject us to extensive domestic and foreign legal and regulatory requirements, and a variety of other political, economic and regulatory risks including: changes in government leadership; changes in laws or regulations impacting our overall business model or restricting our ability to manufacture, purchase or sell products, and political pressures to change any aspect of our business model or practices and source raw materials, components, systems and parts on competitive terms in a manner consistent with our current practice; changes in tax laws; economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade policies, including restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between the U.S. and China, more detailed inspections, new or higher tariffs, for example, on products imported from Mexico into the U.S.; new barriers to entry or domestic preference procurement requirements, changes to or withdrawals from free trade agreements (for example, the North American Free Trade Agreement or NAFTA), or preferences of foreign nationals for domestically manufactured products; changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, significant changes in conditions in the countries in which we operate with the effect of. 11. Table of Contents. GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES. competition from new market entrants; differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions and safety; impact of compliance with U.S. and other foreign countries' export controls and economic sanctions; liabilities resulting from U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and certain other anti-corruption laws; differing labor regulations and union relationships; and difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations.. Any significant disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could disrupt our production schedule.  We assemble vehicles at various facilities around the world. These facilities are typically designed to produce particular models for particular geographic markets. No single facility is designed to manufacture our full range of vehicles. In some cases certain facilities produce products, systems, components and parts that disproportionately contribute a greater degree to our profitability than others. Should these or other facilities become unavailable either temporarily or permanently for any number of reasons, including labor disruptions, the inability to manufacture there may result in harm to our reputation, increased costs, lower revenues and the loss of customers. We may not be able to easily shift production to other facilities or to make up for lost production. Any new facility needed to replace an inoperable manufacturing facility would need to comply with the necessary regulatory requirements, need to satisfy our specialized manufacturing requirements and require specialized equipment. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available or any losses which may be excluded under our insurance policies.. Any disruption in our suppliers' operations could disrupt our production schedule.  Our automotive operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver the systems, components, raw materials and parts that we need to manufacture our products. Our use of \"just-in-time\" manufacturing processes allows us to maintain minimal inventory quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts. As a result our ability to maintain production is dependent upon our suppliers delivering sufficient quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts on time to meet our production schedules. In some instances we purchase systems, components, raw materials and parts that ultimately derive from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. Disputes, financial difficulties or solvency problems with our suppliers, including Takata Corporation (Takata), which may be exacerbated by the cost of remediating quality issues with these items, could lead to uncertainty in our supply chain or cause supply disruptions for us which could, in turn, disrupt our operations, including production of certain of our higher margin vehicles. Where we experience supply disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly. Any disruption of our production schedule caused by an unexpected shortage of systems, components, raw materials or parts even for a relatively short period of time could cause us to alter production schedules or suspend production entirely.. High prices of raw materials used by us and our suppliers could negatively impact our profitability.  Increases in prices for raw materials that we and our suppliers use in manufacturing products, systems, components and parts such as steel, precious metals, non-ferrous metals, including aluminum, copper and plastic parts may lead to higher production costs for parts and components. This could, in turn, negatively impact our future profitability because we may not be able to pass all of those costs on to our customers or require our suppliers to absorb such costs.. We operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results.  The global automotive industry is highly competitive and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry far exceeds demand. Many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. Many of our competitors have responded to these relatively high fixed costs by providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering marketing incentives or reducing vehicle prices. As a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations. Our competitors may also seek to benefit from economies of scale by consolidating or entering into other strategic agreements such as alliances intended to enhance their competitiveness.. Domestic manufacturers in lower cost countries, such as China and India, have become competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention to export their products to established markets as a low cost alternative to established entry-level automobiles. In addition, foreign governments may decide to implement tax and other policies that favor their domestic manufacturers at the expense of international manufacturers, including GM and its joint venture partners. These actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results.. Competitors may independently develop products and services similar to ours, and there are no guarantees that GM's intellectual property rights would prevent competitors from independently developing or selling those product and services.  There may be instances where, notwithstanding our intellectual property position, competitive products or services may impact the value of our brands and other intangible assets, and our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, although GM takes. 12. Table of Contents. GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES. reasonable steps to maintain the confidentiality of GM proprietary information, there can be no assurance that such efforts will completely deter misappropriation or improper use of our technology. We sometimes face attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology networks and systems for the purpose of improperly acquiring our trade secrets or confidential business information. The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, we may be the target of enforcement of patents by third parties, including aggressive and opportunistic enforcement claims by non-practicing entities. Regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming. Although we have taken steps to mitigate such risks, if we are found to infringe any third-party rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages or we could be enjoined from offering some of our products and services.. Security breaches and other disruptions to information technology systems and networked products, including connected vehicles, owned or maintained by us, GM Financial, or third-party vendors or suppliers on our behalf, could interfere with our operations and could compromise the confidentiality of private customer data or our proprietary information.  We rely upon information technology systems and manufacture networked products, some of which are managed by third-parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, activities and products. Additionally we and GM Financial collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, proprietary business information of our dealers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these systems and products, and the processing and maintenance of the information processed by these systems and products, is critical to our business operations and strategy. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, these systems and products may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns caused by attacks by hackers, computer viruses, or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to these systems and products. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise the operational integrity of these systems and products. Similarly, such an occurrence could result in the compromise or loss of the information processed by these systems and products. Such events could result in, among other things, the loss of proprietary data, interruptions or delays in our business operations and damage to our reputation. In addition, such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information; disrupt operations; or reduce the competitive advantage we hope to derive from our investment in advanced technologies. We have experienced such events in the past and, although past events were immaterial, future events may occur and may be material.. Portions of our information technology systems also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors due to regular maintenance efforts, such as systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to design, manufacture and sell products and services, and interrupt other business processes.. Security breaches and other disruptions of our in-vehicle systems could impact the safety of our customers and reduce confidence in GM and our products.  Our vehicles contain complex information technology systems. These systems control various vehicle functions including engine, transmission, safety, steering, navigation, acceleration, braking, window and door lock functions. We have designed, implemented and tested security measures intended to prevent unauthorized access to these systems. However, hackers have reportedly attempted, and may attempt in the future, to gain unauthorized access to modify, alter and use such systems to gain control of, or to change, our vehicles' functionality, user interface and performance characteristics, or to gain access to data stored in or generated by the vehicle. Any unauthorized access to or control of our vehicles or their systems or any loss of data could impact the safety of our customers or result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties. In addition, regardless of their veracity, reports of unauthorized access to our vehicles, their systems or data could negatively affect our brand and harm our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results.. Our products are subject to extensive laws, governmental regulations and policies, that can significantly increase our costs and affect how we do business.  We are significantly affected by governmental regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. Meeting or exceeding many of these regulations is costly and often technologically challenging with respect to mandated emissions and fuel economy standards, especially where standards may not be harmonized across jurisdictions. We anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the related costs and changes to our product portfolio, may increase significantly in the future. These government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and given the uncertainty surrounding enforcement and regulatory definitions, may result in substantial costs, including civil or criminal penalties. In addition, an evolving but un-harmonized regulatory framework may limit or dictate the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. Refer to the \"Environmental and Regulatory Matters\" section of Item 1. Business for further information on these regulatory requirements. We also expect that manufacturers will continue to be subject to increased scrutiny from regulators globally.. 13. Table of Contents. GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES. We expect that to comply with fuel economy and emission control requirements we will be required to sell a significant volume of electric vehicles, as well as develop and implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. There are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however. There is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such new technologies on a profitable basis or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs.. In the current uncertain regulatory framework, environmental liabilities for which we may be responsible and that are not reasonably estimable could be substantial. Alleged violations of safety or emissions standards could result in legal proceedings, the recall of one or more of our products, negotiated remedial actions, fines, restricted product offerings or a combination of any of those items. Any of these actions could have substantial adverse effects on our operations including facility idling, reduced employment, increased costs and loss of revenue.. Many of our advanced technologies, including autonomous, present novel issues with which domestic and foreign regulators have only limited experience and will be subject to evolving regulatory frameworks. Any current or future regulations in these areas could impact whether and how these technologies are designed and integrated into our products, and may ultimately subject us to increased costs and uncertainty.. We could be materially adversely affected by unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or other proceedings.  We are subject to legal proceedings involving various issues, including product liability lawsuits, stockholder litigation and proceedings related to the Ignition Switch Recall. In addition, we are subject to governmental proceedings and investigations. A negative outcome in one or more of these legal proceedings could result in the imposition of damages, including punitive damages, substantial fines, significant reputational harm, civil lawsuits and criminal penalties, interruptions of business, modification of business practices, equitable remedies and other sanctions against us or our personnel as well as significant legal and other costs. In addition, we may become obligated to issue up to 30 million shares of our common stock (subject to adjustment to take into account stock dividends, stock splits and other transactions) to the Motors Liquidation Company GUC Trust (GUC Trust) under a provision of the Amended and Restated Master Sale and Purchase Agreement between us and General Motors Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries in the event that allowed general unsecured claims against the GUC Trust, as estimated by the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (Bankruptcy Court), exceed $35.0 billion. At December 31, 2017, the Bankruptcy Court estimated that allowed general unsecured claims were approximately $31.9 billion.. If, in the discretion of the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York (the U.S. Attorney's Office), we do not comply with the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement (the DPA), the U.S. Attorney's Office may prosecute us for charges alleged by the U.S. Attorney's Office including those relating to faulty ignition switches.  On September 17, 2015 we announced that we entered into the DPA with the U.S. Attorney's Office regarding its investigation of the events leading up to certain recalls announced in February and March of 2014 relating to faulty ignition switches. Under the DPA, we consented to, among other things, the filing of a two-count information (the Information) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the Southern District) charging GM with a scheme to conceal material facts from a government regulator and wire fraud. We pled not guilty to the charges alleged in the Information. The DPA further provides that, in the event the U.S. Attorney's Office determines during the period of deferral of prosecution (or any extensions thereof) that we have violated any provision of the DPA, including violating any U.S. federal law or our obligation to cooperate with and assist the independent monitor (the Monitor), the U.S. Attorney's Office may, in its discretion, either prosecute us on the charges alleged in the Information or impose an extension of the period of deferral of prosecution of up to one additional year. Under such circumstance, the U.S. Attorney's Office would be permitted to rely upon the admissions we made in the DPA and would benefit from our waiver of certain procedural and evidentiary defenses. Such a criminal prosecution could subject us to penalties.. The costs and effect on our reputation of product safety recalls and alleged defects in products and services could materially adversely affect our business.  Government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy certain product safety defects through recall campaigns. Under these standards, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties or may incur various costs, including significant costs for free repairs. At present, the costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. The costs to complete a recall or customer satisfaction action could be exacerbated to the extent that such action relates to a global platform. Concerns about the safety of our products, including advanced technologies like autonomous, whether raised internally or by regulators or consumer advocates, and whether or not based on scientific evidence, can result in product delays, recalls, lost sales, governmental investigations, regulatory action, private claims, lawsuits and settlements, and reputational damage. These circumstances can also result in damage to brand image, brand equity and consumer trust in the Company's products and ability to lead the disruption occurring in the automotive industry.. 14. Table of Contents. GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES. We currently source a variety of systems, components, raw materials and parts, including but not limited to air bag inflators, from third parties. From time to time these items may have performance, quality or reputational issues that could harm our reputation and cause us to incur significant costs. For example, we are currently conducting recalls for certain Takata air bag inflators used in some of our prior model year vehicles. Further recalls, if any, that may be required to remediate Takata air bag inflators in our vehicles could have a material impact on our business.. For a further discussion of these matters refer to Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements.. We may continue to restructure or divest our operations in various countries, but we may not succeed in doing so.  In 2017, we announced significant restructuring and cost reduction actions to lower our operating costs in response to difficult market and operating conditions in various parts of the world. As we continue to assess our performance throughout our regions, we may take additional restructuring actions to rationalize our operations, which may result in impairments and reduce our profitability in the periods incurred. In addition, we may not realize anticipated savings or benefits from past or future cost reduction actions in full or in part or within the time periods we expect. We are also subject to the risks of labor unrest, negative publicity and business disruption in connection with our cost reduction actions. Failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from our cost reduction actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.. Our future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to control our costs, which requires us to successfully implement operating effectiveness initiatives throughout our operations.  We are continuing to implement a number of operating effectiveness initiatives to improve productivity and reduce costs. Our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these initiatives throughout our operations. While some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others, such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our costs. Reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing advertising and our belief that engineering and other expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety and customer satisfaction of our vehicles and to continue to innovate our technology, product and service offerings to meet changing customer needs and market developments are likely to increase.. We rely on GM Financial to provide financial services to our dealers and customers in a majority of the markets in which we sell vehicles. GM Financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and financing to retail consumers and commercial lending to our dealers to support additional sales of our vehicles.  We rely on GM Financial in North America, South America and China to support leasing and sales of our vehicles to consumers requiring vehicle financing and also to provide commercial lending to our dealers. Any reduction in GM Financial's ability to provide such financial services would negatively affect our efforts to support additional sales of our vehicles and expand our market penetration among consumers and dealers.. As an entity operating in the financial services sector, GM Financial is required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations that may be costly to adhere to and may affect our consolidated operating results. Compliance with these laws and regulations requires that GM Financial maintain forms, processes, procedures, controls and the infrastructure to support these requirements and these laws and regulations often create operational constraints both on GM Financial's ability to implement servicing procedures and on pricing. Laws in the financial services industry are designed primarily for the protection of consumers. The failure to comply with these laws could result in significant statutory civil and criminal penalties, monetary damages, attorneys' fees and costs, possible revocation of licenses and damage to reputation, brand and valued customer relationships.. The primary factors that could adversely affect GM Financial's business and operations and reduce its ability to provide financing services at competitive rates include the availability of borrowings under its credit facilities to fund its retail and commercial finance activities; its ability to access a variety of financing sources including the asset-backed securities market and other secured and unsecured debt markets; the performance of loans and leases in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by delinquencies, defaults or prepayments; wholesale auction values of used vehicles; higher than expected vehicle return rates and the residual value performance on vehicles GM Financial leases to customers; fluctuations in interest rates and currencies; and changes to regulation, supervision and licensing across various jurisdictions, including new regulations or sanctions imposed in the U.S. by the Department of Justice, SEC and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.. Our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, changes in laws or regulations, changes in assumptions or investments that do not achieve. 15. Table of Contents. GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES. adequate returns.  Our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. A detailed description of the investment funds and strategies and our potential funding requirements are disclosed in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments.. Our future funding requirements for our U.S. defined benefit pension plans depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in laws and regulations. Future funding requirements generally increase if the discount rate decreases or if actual asset returns are lower than expected asset returns, assuming other factors are held constant. We estimate future contributions to these plans using assumptions with respect to these and other items. Changes to those assumptions could have a significant effect on future contributions.. There are additional risks due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments. Examples include implementation of significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market liquidity in particular asset classes and the inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments.. Factors which affect future funding requirements for our U.S. defined benefit plans generally affect the required funding for non-U.S. plans. Certain plans outside the U.S. do not have assets and therefore the obligation is funded as benefits are paid. If local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our non-U.S. plans, we could be required to contribute more funds.. *  *  *  *  *  *  *"
