[1] "ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors.. Risks Relating to our Business and Business Strategy. We have a history of net losses, we may incur net losses in the future, and we expect to continue to incur significant expenses to develop and market our tests and enter into collaborations, which may make it difficult for us to achieve sustained profitability.. We have historically incurred substantial net losses. From our inception in August 2000 through December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $245.9 million. We expect to continue to invest in our product pipeline, including our current Oncotype DX tests and future commercialized products, and to invest in our global commercial infrastructure, our laboratory operations, commercial collaborations and next generation sequencing, or NGS, and other technologies. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our research and development expenses were $62.8 million and our selling and marketing expenses were. 28. Table of Contents. $157.0 million. We expect our expense levels to continue to increase for the foreseeable future as we seek to globally expand the clinical utility of our Oncotype DX breast and prostate cancer tests, drive adoption of and reimbursement for our Oncotype DX colon cancer and prostate cancer tests and develop and commercialize new tests, including Oncotype DX AR-V7 Nucleus Detect, the in-vitro diagnostic, or IVD, version of our Oncotype DX breast cancer test, and the potential IsoPSA IVD test for high-risk prostate cancer. As a result, we will need to generate significant growth in revenues in order to achieve sustained profitability. Our failure to achieve increased revenue or sustained profitability in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. If third - party payors, including managed care organizations and Medicare, do not provide reimbursement, breach, rescind or modify their contracts or reimbursement policies or delay payments for our tests, or we are unable to successfully renegotiate reimbursement contracts, our commercial success could be compromised.. Physicians and patients might not order our tests unless third - party payors, such as managed care organizations as well as government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid and government payors outside of the United States, pay a substantial portion of the test price. Reimbursement by a payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that tests using our technologies are not experimental or investigational, and that they are medically necessary, cost-effective, supported by peer-reviewed publications and included in clinical practice guidelines. There is uncertainty concerning third-party payor reimbursement of any test incorporating new technology, including tests developed using our Oncotype platform.. Our Oncotype DX invasive breast cancer test has received certain negative assessments in the past relating to technology criteria for clinical effectiveness and appropriateness for use in patients with N+ disease, and our tests may receive similar negative assessments in the future. Since each payor makes its own decision as to whether to establish a policy to reimburse our tests, seeking these approvals is a time-consuming and costly process. To date, we have positive coverage determinations for our Oncotype DX breast cancer test for N - , ER+ patients from most third - party payors in the United States through contracts, agreements or policy decisions. We cannot be certain that coverage for this test will be provided in the future by additional third - party payors or that existing contracts, agreements or policy decisions or reimbursement levels, including tests processed as out of network, will remain in place or be fulfilled within existing terms and provisions. From time to time payors change processes that may affect timely payment. These changes may result in uneven cash flow or impact the timing of revenue recognized with these payors.. We have obtained limited reimbursement from private third-party payors in the United States for our Oncotype DX colon cancer test and for our Oncotype DX breast cancer test for N+ and DCIS patients. Until further clinical data is presented, our N+ and DCIS indication for our breast cancer test and our colon cancer test may be considered investigational by payors and therefore may not be covered under their reimbursement policies.. We have obtained Medicare reimbursement coverage for our prostate cancer test for low and very-low risk patients and for favorable intermediate-risk patients. However, we may not be able to obtain Medicare reimbursement coverage for our prostate cancer test for patients with different risk profiles or obtain other third-party payor reimbursement for patients with colon or prostate cancer or with N+ breast cancer patients that is similar to the coverage we have obtained for our invasive breast cancer test for N-, ER- patients. We believe that it may take several years to achieve reimbursement with a majority of third-party payors for our tests. If we fail to establish broad adoption of and reimbursement for all of our tests and any future tests we may develop, our reputation could be harmed and our future prospects and our business could suffer.. Under the terms of the coverage determinations for our Oncotype DX prostate cancer test, coverage for the test for patients with certain risk profiles is limited to tests ordered by physicians who agree to participate in a Certification and Training Registry, or CTR, and to provide certain information about Medicare beneficiaries who receive our test. If physicians do not timely submit necessary information as part of participating in the CTR, the timeframe in which we are reimbursed and recognize revenue for those tests may be accordingly delayed and negatively affect our results of operations.. Changes in payment rates may result in delays receiving payments and a related increase in accounts receivable balances as payors update their billing systems to reflect the changes. Additionally, on a five-year rotational basis, Medicare requests bids for its regional Medicare Administrative Contractor, or MAC, services. In September 2013, the claims processing function for our jurisdiction transitioned from Palmetto to Noridian Healthcare Solutions, although coverage determinations for our tests remain with Palmetto at this time through the MolDx Program. Future changes in the MAC with jurisdiction over our tests may affect our ability to obtain Medicare coverage and reimbursement for products for which we have coverage, for products for which we do not yet have coverage or for any products we may launch in the future or delay payments.. If we are unable to obtain or maintain reimbursement from both private and public payors for our existing tests or new. 29. Table of Contents. tests or test enhancements we may develop in the future, our ability to generate revenues could be limited. We have in the past, and will likely in the future, experience delays and temporary interruptions in the receipt of payments from third-party payors due to modifications in existing contracts or arrangements, contract implementation matters, documentation requirements and other issues, which could cause our revenues to fluctuate from period to period.. Our financial results depend largely on the sales of one test, our Oncotype DX invasive breast cancer test, and we will need to generate sufficient revenues from this and other tests to run our business and achieve profitability.. For the near future, we expect to continue to derive a substantial majority of our revenues from sales of one test, our Oncotype DX invasive breast cancer test. While we launched our test for colon cancer in January 2010, we do not expect to recognize significant revenues from this test. We are in various stages of research and development for other tests that we may offer as well as for enhancements to our existing tests. We may not be able to successfully commercialize tests for other cancers or diseases. If we are unable to increase sales of our Oncotype DX invasive breast cancer test, establish expanded adoption of and reimbursement for our prostate cancer or DCIS tests, or successfully develop and commercialize new products or product enhancements to our currently commercialized tests, our revenues and our ability to achieve sustained profitability would be impaired.. The prices at which our tests are reimbursed may be reduced by Medicare and private and other payors, and any such changes could have a negative impact on our revenues.. Even if we are being reimbursed for our tests, Medicare, Medicaid and other payors may withdraw their coverage policies, cancel their contracts with us at any time, review and adjust the rate of reimbursement, require co-payments from patients or stop paying for our tests, which would reduce our revenues. In addition, insurers, including managed care organizations as well as government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services. These measures have resulted in reduced payment rates for and decreased utilization of clinical laboratory services, as well as an increase in the administrative requirements for reimbursement of claims. Noridian Healthcare Solutions and Palmetto GBA, the MACs, that process Medicare claims and set Medicare coverage policies, respectively, for most tests billed by our laboratory and other MACs review coverage decisions regularly.. The Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014, or PAMA, implements a substantial new payment system for clinical laboratory tests under the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule, or CLFS. Under PAMA, Medicare payment rates for tests are equal to the volume-weighted median of the private payor payment rates for such tests. The payment rates calculated under PAMA apply to our tests effective as of January 1, 2018, and will be reviewed annually for \"advanced diagnostic laboratory tests\" (and every three years for other tests), based on private payor payment rates and volumes. Laboratories that fail to report or erroneously report the required payment information may be subject to substantial civil money penalties. We believe our Oncotype DX tests each meet the criteria to be considered advanced diagnostic laboratory tests. We may or may not, however, seek designation as an advanced diagnostic laboratory test for any of our established tests. There can be no assurance under PAMA that adequate Medicare payment rates will continue to be assigned to our tests.. If we are unable to obtain or maintain adequate reimbursement for our tests outside of the United States, our ability to expand internationally will be compromised.. The majority of our international Oncotype DX breast and colon cancer test revenues come from direct payor reimbursement, payments from our distributors, and patient self - pay. In many countries outside of the United States, various coverage, pricing and reimbursement approvals are required for our tests to be available to patients. We expect that it will take several years to establish broad coverage and reimbursement for our tests with payors in countries outside of the United States, and our efforts may not be successful. Even if public or private reimbursement is obtained, it may cover competing tests, or the reimbursement may be conditioned upon local performance of the tests or other requirements we may have difficulty satisfying. Reimbursement levels outside of the United States may vary considerably from the domestic reimbursement amounts we receive. In addition, because we rely on distributors to obtain reimbursement for our tests outside of the United States, to the extent we do not have direct reimbursement arrangements with payors, we may not be able to retain reimbursement coverage in certain countries with a particular payor if our agreement with a distributor is terminated or expires, if a distributor fails to pay us or for other reasons. We may also be negatively affected by the financial instability of, and austerity measures implemented by, several countries in the European Union and elsewhere.. 30. Table of Contents. We depend on Medicare for a significant portion of our product revenues and if Medicare or other significant payors stop providing reimbursement or decrease the amount of reimbursement for our tests, our revenues could decline.. Reimbursement on behalf of patients covered by Medicare accounted for 22%, 21% and 20% of our product revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Accounts receivable on behalf of patients directly covered by Medicare represented 23%, 24% and 14% of our total accounts receivable at December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. While there were no other third-party payors representing 10% or more of our product revenues for these periods, there have been in the past, and may be in the future, payors accounting for 10% or more of our product revenues. Because the majority of stage II and stage III colon cancer patients and prostate cancer patients in the United States are age 65 and over, and thus eligible for Medicare, we may become more dependent on Medicare reimbursement in the future. It is possible that Medicare or other third-party payors that provide reimbursement for our tests may suspend, revoke or discontinue coverage at any time, may require co-payments from patients, or may reduce the reimbursement rates payable to us. Any such action could have a negative impact on our revenues.. Because of Medicare billing rules or changes in Medicare billing rules and processes, we may not receive reimbursement for all tests provided to Medicare patients or may experience delays of receiving payments.. Effective January 1, 2018, for Medicare beneficiaries who were hospital outpatients at the time the tumor tissue samples were obtained, we may bill for tests that are performed following an outpatient encounter.  Payment for our Oncotype DX tests performed on Medicare beneficiaries who were hospital inpatients at the time the tumor tissue or blood samples were obtained and whose tests were ordered less than 14 days from discharge must be bundled into the payment that the hospital receives for the services provided. In these circumstances, hospitals are required to furnish services such as our tests as \"services furnished under arrangements between a provider and an outside vendor\" and only the hospital may bill Medicare for such tests. Under these circumstances, for us to obtain payment for these services, we are required to bill individual hospitals for tests ordered for Medicare beneficiaries. Such hospitals have generally been unwilling to enter into written agreements with us to assume the financial responsibility for these tests ordered for Medicare beneficiaries and consequently we generally cancel such orders when received within the 14-day timeframe when written agreements from such hospitals are not in place.. These billing rules may lead to confusion regarding whether Medicare provides adequate reimbursement for our tests, and could discourage providers from ordering our tests for Medicare patients. In addition, compared to our breast cancer tests, a greater proportion of eligible patients for our colon and prostate tests are covered by Medicare. We cannot assure you that Medicare will continue these billing rules in their current form, that Medicare not will seek to expand the scope of its payment bundling rules in the future, or that other payors will not adopt similar billing rules. In addition, changes in Medicare billing rules and processes could result in delays in receiving payments and any such delays could affect our results of operations.. If our Oncotype laboratory facilities become inoperable, we will be unable to perform our tests and our business will be harmed.. We do not have redundant clinical reference laboratory facilities outside of Redwood City, California for our Oncotype DX tests. Redwood City is situated near active earthquake fault lines. Our facilities and the equipment we use to perform our tests would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. Our facilities may be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man - made disasters, including earthquakes, flooding and power outages, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to perform our tests for some period of time. The inability to perform our tests or the backlog of tests that could develop if our facility is inoperable for even a short period of time may result in the loss of customers or harm our reputation, and we may be unable to regain those customers in the future. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all.. In order to rely on a third party to perform our tests, we could only use another facility with established state licensure and CLIA accreditation under the scope of which Oncotype tests could be performed following validation and other required procedures. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find another CLIA - certified facility willing to comply with the required procedures, that this laboratory would be willing to perform the tests for us on commercially reasonable terms, or that it would be able to meet our quality standards. In order to establish a redundant clinical reference laboratory outside of our Redwood City, California facilities, we would have to spend considerable time and money securing adequate space, constructing the facility, recruiting and training employees, and establishing the additional operational and administrative infrastructure necessary to support a second facility. We may not be able, or it may take considerable time, to replicate our testing processes or results in a new facility. Additionally, any new clinical reference laboratory facility opened by us would. 31. Table of Contents. be subject to certification under CLIA and licensing by several states, including California and New York, which could take a significant amount of time and result in delays in our ability to resume operations.. We may acquire other businesses, form joint ventures or make investments in other companies or technologies that could harm our operating results, dilute our stockholders' ownership, increase our debt or cause us to incur significant expense.. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and assets, as well as technology licensing arrangements or other collaborations. We also may pursue strategic alliances that leverage our core technology and industry experience to expand our product offerings or distribution, or make investments in other companies. We have in the past and may in the future experience losses related to the recognition of our portion of the net losses of equity method investees, and we may in the future experience impairment losses related to our investments in companies if we determine that the value of an investment is impaired. Losses related to our investments in other companies could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. We have no experience with respect to acquiring other companies and only recent experience with respect to the formation of strategic alliances and joint ventures. If we make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities. Any future acquisitions by us also could result in significant write - offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. Integration of an acquired company also may require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. We may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost - effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, technology license, strategic alliance, joint venture or investment. Additionally, although we are not currently a majority investor in any other company, we cannot guarantee that a company in whom we invest in the future will not be considered a variable interest entity, or VIE, under relevant accounting standards and guidance. If an entity in which we invest is determined to be a VIE, and we are determined to be the primary beneficiary of that VIE, we may have to consolidate that entity's financial results with ours, and such consolidation could have a negative effect on our financial results.. To finance any acquisitions or investments, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which would dilute the ownership of our stockholders. Periods of upheaval in the capital markets and world economy have in the past, and may in the future, cause volatility in the market price of our common stock. If the price of our common stock is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other companies for stock. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds for acquisitions through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all.. International expansion of our business exposes us to business, regulatory, political, operational, financial, compliance and economic risks associated with doing business outside of the United States.. Our business strategy incorporates international expansion, including increasing the size of and maintaining direct sales and physician outreach and education capabilities outside of the United States and expanding our relationships with international payors and distributors. Doing business internationally involves a number of risks, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in complying with multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as tax laws, export and import restrictions, employment laws, data protection laws, regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant competition from local and regional product offerings;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in complying with unclear product regulations in various jurisdictions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomplexities associated with managing multiple payor reimbursement regimes, government payors or patient self - pay systems;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlogistics and regulations associated with shipping tissue samples or complying with local regulations concerning the analysis of tissue, including infrastructure conditions and transportation delays;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimits in our ability to penetrate international markets if we are not able to process tests locally;. 32. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlack of intellectual property protection in certain markets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfinancial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty collecting accounts receivable, the impact of local and regional financial crises on demand and payment for our tests and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnatural disasters, political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, and political unrest, outbreak of disease, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over the activities of our salesforce and distributors that may fall within the purview of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, its books and records provisions or its anti - bribery provisions.. Any of these factors could significantly harm our future international expansion and operations and, consequently, our revenues and results of operations.. We face risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our operating results.. We receive a portion of our revenues and pay a portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, such as the Euro, the Swiss franc, the British pound and the Canadian dollar. As a result, we are at risk from exchange rate fluctuations between such foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar, which could affect our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 9% of our product revenues came from foreign denominated currencies. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will result in decreased revenues and operating expenses and increased net losses. We may not be able to offset adverse foreign currency impact with increased revenues. In September 2017, we entered into forward contracts to mitigate the impact of adverse movements in foreign exchange rates related to the re-measurement of monetary assets and liabilities and hedge our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Even with this strategy in place to mitigate balance sheet foreign currency risk, we will not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our financial results.. If it became necessary and we were unable to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future, it may limit our ability to develop and commercialize new tests and technologies and expand our operations.. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we expand our infrastructure, commercial operations and research and development activities. Specifically, we may need to raise capital to, among other things, expand and fund the commercialization of our products, increase our selling and marketing efforts, further expand our clinical laboratory operations, technologies and research and development activities, invest in complementary businesses or assets or finance capital expenditures and general and administrative expenses.. Our present and future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including establishing and maintaining reimbursement arrangements with third-party payors, costs associated with expanding our commercial and laboratory operations, spending on research and development activities, costs associated with acquiring, licensing or investing in new technologies or complementary businesses, costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights, costs associated with international expansion, and the costs and potential delays involved with regulatory clearances and approvals.. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain additional funds on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to our stockholders could result. Any equity or debt securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock and could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more research and development programs or selling and marketing initiatives. Any or all of these factors could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. 33. Table of Contents. We may be unable to manage our future growth and operational expansion effectively, which could make it difficult to execute our business strategy.. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on management, including the need to identify, recruit, train and integrate additional employees. In addition, rapid and significant growth may place strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure, including customer service and our clinical laboratory. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, it may be difficult for us to execute our business strategy.. The implementation and transition to a new enterprise resource planning system to streamline a broad range of business processes and functional areas including order fulfillment, sample processing, customer service, supply chain management, and others has, in some cases, resulted in delays in access to, or could result in errors in, critical business and financial information. Unexpected errors or delays could also harm our ability to operate certain aspects of our business or to file our periodic reports in a timely manner.. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems, and any failure of these systems could harm our business.. We depend on information technology, or IT, and telecommunications systems for significant aspects of our operations. In addition, our third - party billing and collections provider is dependent upon telecommunications and data systems provided by outside vendors and information it receives from us on a regular basis. These IT and telecommunications systems support a variety of functions, including test processing, sample tracking, quality control, customer service and support, billing and reimbursement, research and development activities, and our general and administrative activities. Failures or significant downtime of our IT or telecommunications systems or those used by our third - party service providers could prevent us from processing tests, providing test results to physicians, billing payors, processing reimbursement appeals, handling patient or physician inquiries, conducting research and development activities, and managing the administrative aspects of our business. Any disruption or loss of IT or telecommunications systems on which critical aspects of our operations depend could have an adverse effect on our business and our product revenues.. Security breaches, loss of data and other disruptions could compromise sensitive information related to our business or prevent us from accessing critical information and expose us to liability, which could adversely affect our business and our reputation.. In the ordinary course of our business, we and our third-party billing and collections provider collect and store sensitive data, including legally protected health information, sensitive personal data, credit card information, personally identifiable information about our employees, customers and patients, intellectual property, and our proprietary business information and that of our customers, payors and collaboration partners. We manage and maintain our applications and data utilizing a combination of on - site systems, managed data center systems and cloud - based data center systems. These applications and data encompass a wide variety of business-critical information including research and development information, commercial information and business and financial information. We face four primary risks relative to protecting this critical information, including loss of access risk, inappropriate disclosure risk and inappropriate modification risk combined with the risk of our ability to identify and audit our controls over the first three risks.. The secure processing, storage, maintenance and transmission of this critical information is vital to our operations and business strategy, and we devote significant resources to protecting such information. Although we take measures to protect sensitive information from unauthorized access or disclosure, our information technology and infrastructure, and that of our third-party billing and collections provider, may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or viruses or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach or interruption could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed by unauthorized parties, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, similar state data protection regulations, the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, and other regulations, the breach of which could result in significant penalties. Unauthorized access, loss or dissemination could also disrupt our operations, including our ability to process tests, provide test results, bill payors or patients, process claims and appeals, provide customer assistance services, conduct research and development activities, collect, process and prepare company financial information, provide information about our tests and other patient and physician education and outreach efforts through our website, manage the administrative aspects of our business and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business.. 34. Table of Contents. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer, health - related and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain, contradictory and in flux. For example, in October 2015, the European Court of Justice invalidated the U.S./E.U. Safe Harbor Framework regarding the overseas transfer of E.U. residents' personal data, under which we held certification. Companies, such as us, who relied upon the invalid Safe Harbor Framework were exposed to additional scrutiny from the E.U. data protection authorities without the protection of the Safe Harbor Framework. The U.S.-E.U. Privacy Shield, or the Privacy Shield, has been open to registrants as of August 1, 2016. We have self-certified with the Department of Commerce for compliance with the Privacy Shield, which we believe will mitigate customer concerns about overseas data transfers. However there continue to be concerns about whether the Privacy Shield will face additional challenges (similar to those that invalidated the Safe Harbor Framework), and it is not guaranteed that companies who have self-certified under the Privacy Shield will be free of additional ongoing scrutiny by E.U. data protection authorities. Compliance with Privacy Shield requirements does not, in addition, equate to compliance with the stringent requirements of the GDPR.  European data protection authorities could interpret or apply European data protection law in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices. If so, this could result in prohibitions on processing of data required to perform our tests in Europe or government-imposed fines, or both, which could adversely affect our business. Complying with these various laws could in addition cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices and compliance procedures in a manner adverse to our business.. If we were sued for product liability or professional liability, we could face substantial liabilities that exceed our resources.. The marketing, sale and use of our tests could lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that our tests failed to perform as designed. We may also be subject to liability for errors in the test results we provide to physicians or for a misunderstanding of, or inappropriate reliance upon, the information we provide. For example, physicians sometimes order our Oncotype DX breast cancer test for patients who do not have the specific clinical attributes indicated on the report form as those for whom the test provides clinical information validated by studies. It is our practice to offer medical consultation to physicians ordering our test for such patients, including patients with ER -  breast cancers. A product liability or professional liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time consuming for us to defend. Although we maintain product and professional liability insurance, we cannot assure you that our insurance would protect us from the financial impact of defending against product liability or professional liability claims or any judgments, fines or settlement costs arising out of any such claims. Any product liability or professional liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. Additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, result in the recall of our products, or cause current clinical partners to terminate existing agreements and potential clinical partners to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations.. If we use hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury, we could be liable for damages.. Our activities currently require the use of hazardous materials and medical specimens. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to employees or third parties from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials or specimens. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources or any applicable insurance coverage we may have. Additionally, we are subject on an ongoing basis to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products, as well as regulations relating to the safety and health of laboratory employees. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations may become significant and could negatively affect our operating results.. We incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and must continually implement additional and expensive business systems, procedures and controls to satisfy public company reporting requirements.. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements has increased our costs and required additional management resources. We will need to continue to implement additional finance, accounting, and business operating systems, procedures, and controls as we grow our business and organization and to satisfy existing reporting requirements. If we fail to maintain or implement adequate controls, if we are unable to complete the required Section 404 assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting in future Form 10-K filings, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future Form 10-K filings, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, Nasdaq or other regulatory authorities which could require additional financial and management resources.. 35. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Governmental Regulation. Healthcare policy changes, including legislation reforming the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, collectively, the Affordable Care Act, or ACA, enacted in March 2010, makes changes that significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries and clinical laboratories. For example, beginning in 2013 through December 31, 2015, each medical device manufacturer was required to pay sales tax in an amount equal to 2.3% of the price for which such manufacturer sells its medical devices that are listed with the FDA. The medical device tax has been suspended since 2016, but is scheduled to be re-imposed in 2020. Various proposals have been put forth, including by the FDA, to regulate LDTs, as medical devices. Although none of our LDTs, such as our Oncotype DX breast, colon and prostate cancer tests, are currently listed with the FDA, we cannot assure you that the tax will not apply to services such as ours in the future.. Other significant measures contained in the ACA include, for example, coordination and promotion of research on comparative clinical effectiveness of different technologies and procedures, initiatives to revise Medicare payment methodologies, such as bundling of payments across the continuum of care by providers and physicians, and initiatives to promote quality indicators in payment methodologies. The ACA also includes significant new fraud and abuse measures, including required disclosures of financial arrangements with physician customers, lower thresholds for violations and increasing potential penalties for such violations. In addition to the ACA, various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged from federal and state governments. The current U.S. President and other U.S. lawmakers have made statements about potentially repealing and/or replacing the ACA and efforts are currently underway in the U.S. Congress to consider legislative actions to that end. Notably, Congress enacted legislation in 2017 that eliminates the ACA's individual insurance mandate beginning in 2019, which may significantly impact the number of covered lives participating in exchange plans. We are monitoring the impact of the ACA and proposals to repeal, replace or refine the ACA to enable us to determine the trends and changes that may potentially impact our business over time.. Under the Budget Control Act of 2011, which went into effect for dates of service on or after April 1, 2013, Medicare payments, including payments to clinical laboratories, are subject to a 2% reduction due to implementation of the automatic expense reductions (sequester). Reductions made by the Congressional sequester are applied to total claims payment made. The sequester reductions do not result in a rebasing of the negotiated or established Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement rates.. Although individual states' reimbursement methodology has not materially affected the payment rate for our tests recently, we cannot be certain that future changes will not affect payment rates. We also cannot predict whether future healthcare initiatives will be implemented at the federal or state level or in countries outside of the United States in which we may do business, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. The taxes imposed by new legislation, cost reduction measures and the expansion in government's role in the U.S. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursements by payors for our products or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, sales of our tests outside the United States make us subject to foreign regulatory requirements and cost - reduction measures, which may also change over time.. If the FDA were to begin regulating our laboratory developed tests, we could incur substantial costs and time delays associated with meeting requirements for pre - market clearance or approval or we could experience decreased demand for or reimbursement of our tests.. Clinical laboratory tests like ours are regulated under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA, as well as by applicable state laws. Diagnostic kits that are sold and distributed through interstate commerce are regulated as medical devices by the FDA. Most LDTs are not currently subject to FDA regulation, although reagents or software provided by third parties and used to perform LDTs may be subject to regulation. We believe that our Oncotype tests are not diagnostic kits and also believe that they are LDTs. As a result, we believe our tests should not be subject to regulation at this time under established FDA policies. The container we provide for collection and transport of tumor samples from a pathology laboratory to our clinical reference laboratory may be a medical device subject to FDA regulation but is currently exempt from pre - market review by the FDA.. At various times since 2006, the FDA has issued documents outlining its intent to require varying levels of FDA oversight of many LDTs, including our tests. In October 2014, the FDA issued draft guidance that sets forth a proposed risk-based regulatory framework that would apply varying levels of FDA oversight to LDTs. The FDA has indicated that it does not intend to implement its proposed framework until the draft guidance documents are finalized. On January 13, 2017, the. 36. Table of Contents. FDA published a discussion paper in which the FDA outlined a substantially revised possible approach to the oversight of LDTs. The discussion paper explicitly states that it is not a final version of the 2014 draft guidance and that it does not represent the FDA's formal position. It is unclear at this time if or when the FDA will finalize its plans to end enforcement discretion for LDTs, and even then, the new regulatory requirements are expected to be phased-in over time. However, the FDA may decide to regulate certain LDTs on a case-by-case basis at any time.. Legislative proposals addressing oversight of genetic testing and LDTs have been introduced in previous Congresses, and we expect that new legislative proposals will be introduced from time to time in the future. We cannot provide any assurance that FDA regulation, including pre-market review, will not be required in the future for our tests, whether through finalization of guidance issued by the FDA, new enforcement policies adopted by the FDA or new legislation enacted by Congress. It is possible that legislation will be enacted into law or guidance could be issued by the FDA which may result in increased regulatory burdens for us to continue to offer our tests or to develop and introduce new tests.. If pre-market review is required for our current LDTs, our business could be negatively impacted until such review is completed and clearance or approval is obtained, and the FDA could require that we stop selling our tests pending pre - market clearance or approval. If our tests are allowed to remain on the market but there is uncertainty about the regulatory status of our tests, if they are labeled investigational by the FDA, or if labeling claims the FDA allows us to make are more limited than the claims we currently make, orders or reimbursement may decline. The regulatory approval process may involve, among other things, successfully completing additional clinical trials and submitting a pre - market clearance notice or filing a pre - market approval application with the FDA. If pre - market review is required by the FDA, there can be no assurance that our tests will be cleared or approved on a timely basis, if at all, nor can there be assurance that the labeling claims cleared or approved by the FDA will be consistent with our current claims or adequate to support continued adoption of and reimbursement for our tests. Ongoing compliance with FDA regulations would increase the cost of conducting our business, and subject us to inspection by and the regulatory requirements of the FDA, for example registration and listing and medical device reporting, and penalties in the event we fail to comply with these requirements. We may also decide voluntarily to pursue FDA pre - market review of our tests if we determine that doing so would be appropriate.. We cannot predict the ultimate timing or form of final FDA guidance, legislation or regulation of LDTs and the potential impact on our existing tests, our tests in development or the materials used to perform our tests. While we qualify all materials used in our tests according to CLIA regulations, we cannot be certain that the FDA will not enact rules or guidance documents which could impact our ability to purchase certain materials necessary for the performance of our tests, such as products labeled for research use only. Should any of the reagents obtained by us from suppliers and used in conducting our tests be affected by future regulatory actions, our business could be adversely affected by those actions, including increasing the cost of testing or delaying and limiting or prohibiting the purchase of reagents necessary to perform testing.. If we were required to conduct additional clinical trials prior to continuing to sell our current tests or launching any other tests we may develop, those trials could result in delays or failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances, which could harm our business.. If the FDA decides to regulate any of our LDTs, it may require additional pre-market clinical testing before clearing or approving such tests for commercial sales. Such pre-market clinical testing could delay the commencement or completion of other clinical testing, significantly increase our test development costs, delay commercialization of any future tests, and interrupt sales of our current tests. Many of the factors that may cause or lead to a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to delay or denial of regulatory clearance or approval. The commencement of clinical trials may be delayed due to insufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial.. We may find it necessary to engage contract research organizations to perform data collection and analysis and other aspects of our clinical trials, which might increase the cost and complexity of those trials. We may also depend on clinical investigators, medical institutions and contract research organizations to perform certain aspects of the trials. If these parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality, completeness or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may have to be extended, delayed or terminated. Many of these factors would be beyond our control. We may not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without undue delays or considerable expenditures. If there are delays in testing or approvals as a result of the failure to perform by third parties, our research and development costs would increase, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approval for our tests. In addition, we may not be able to establish or maintain relationships with these parties on favorable terms, if at all. Each of these outcomes would harm our ability to market our LDTs, or to achieve sustained profitability.. 37. Table of Contents. Our business could be harmed by the loss, suspension, or other restriction on a license, certification, or accreditation, or by the imposition of a fine or penalties, under CLIA, its implementing regulations, or other state, federal and foreign laws and regulations affecting licensure or certification, or by future changes in these laws or regulations.. We and certain laboratories with whom we collaborate are subject to CLIA, a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. CLIA regulations mandate specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, facilities administration, quality systems, inspections, and proficiency testing. We have a current certificate of accreditation under CLIA to perform testing through our accreditation by the College of American Pathologists, or CAP. To renew this certificate, we are subject to survey and inspection every two years. Inspectors may also make random inspections of our clinical reference laboratory.. Although we are required to hold a certificate of accreditation or compliance under CLIA to perform high complexity testing, we are not required to hold a certificate of accreditation through CAP. We could alternatively maintain a certificate of accreditation from another accrediting organization or a certificate of compliance through inspection by surveyors acting on behalf of the CLIA program. If our accreditation under CAP were to terminate, either voluntarily or involuntarily, we would need to convert our certification under CLIA to a certificate of compliance (or to a certificate of accreditation with another accreditation organization) in order to maintain our ability to perform our clinical tests and to continue commercial operations. Whether we would be able to successfully maintain operations through either of these alternatives would depend upon the facts and circumstances surrounding the termination of our CAP accreditation, such as whether any deficiencies were identified by CAP as the basis for termination and, if so, whether these deficiencies were addressed to the satisfaction of the surveyors for the CLIA program (or another accrediting organization).. We and certain laboratories with whom we collaborate are also required to maintain a California clinical laboratory license to conduct testing in California. California laws establish standards for day - to - day operation of our clinical reference laboratory, including the training and skills required of personnel and quality control. In addition, our clinical reference laboratory is required to be licensed on a test - specific basis by New York State. New York law also mandates proficiency testing for laboratories licensed under New York state law, regardless of whether or not such laboratories are located in New York. Moreover, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Rhode Island require that we hold licenses to test specimens from patients in those states and Florida requires that we hold a license when we receive specimens from clinical laboratories in that state. Other states may have similar requirements or may adopt similar requirements in the future. Finally, we may be subject to regulation in foreign jurisdictions as we seek to expand international distribution of our tests, which may require regulatory review of our tests in order for them to be offered, or may have other limitations such as prohibitions on the export of tissue necessary for us to perform our tests that may limit our ability to distribute outside of the United States.. If we were to lose our CLIA accreditation or California license, whether as a result of a revocation, suspension or limitation, we would no longer be able to sell our tests, which would limit our revenues and harm our business. If we were to lose our license in New York or in other states where we are required to hold licenses, we would not be able to test specimens from those states.. We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and governmental regulations, and any governmental enforcement action may materially affect our financial condition and business operations.. We are subject to regulation in the United States by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business, as well as in other jurisdictions outside of the United States, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMedicare billing and payment regulations applicable to clinical laboratories;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Federal Anti - kickback Law and state anti - kickback prohibitions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Federal physician self - referral prohibition, commonly known as the Stark Law, and the state equivalents;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (as amended);.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Medicare civil money penalty and exclusion requirements;. 38. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Federal False Claims Act civil and criminal penalties and state equivalents; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Anti - bribery Act, the European Data Protection Directive, the GDPR, and the E.U. In Vitro Diagnostic Device Regulation, all of which apply or will apply to our international activities.. The U.S. Attorney's Offices have increased their scrutiny over the healthcare industry in recent years.  The U.S. Congress, Department of Justice, Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, and Department of Defense have all issued subpoenas and other requests for information to conduct investigations of, and commenced civil and criminal litigation against, healthcare companies, related to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance, product promotional practices, and documentation, coding and billing practices.  In addition, the Federal False Claims Act has led to whistleblowers filing numerous qui tam civil lawsuits against healthcare companies, in part, because a whistleblower can receive a portion of any amount obtained by the government through such a lawsuit.. Governmental enforcement action or qui tam civil litigation against us may result in material costs and occupy significant management resources, even if we ultimately prevail.  In addition, governmental enforcement action may result in substantial fines, penalties or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs and entry into corporate integrity agreements with governmental agencies, which would entail significant obligations and costs.. We have adopted policies and procedures designed to comply with these laws. In the ordinary course of our business, we conduct internal reviews of our compliance with these laws. Our compliance is also subject to governmental review. The growth of our business and sales organization and our expansion outside of the United States may increase the potential of violating these laws or our internal policies and procedures. The risk of our being found in violation of these or other laws and regulations is further increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action brought against us for violation of these or other laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws and regulations, we may be subject to any applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines, we could be required to refund payments received by us, and we could be required to curtail or cease our operations. Any of the foregoing consequences could seriously harm our business and our financial results.. We are subject to increasingly complex taxation rules and practices, which may affect how we conduct our business and our results of operations.. As our business grows, we are required to comply with increasingly complex taxation rules and practices. We are subject to tax in multiple U.S. tax jurisdictions and in foreign tax jurisdictions as we expand internationally. The development of our tax strategies requires additional expertise and may impact how we conduct our business. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Furthermore, we provide for certain tax liabilities that involve significant judgment. We are subject to the examination of our tax returns by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which could focus on our intercompany transfer pricing methodology as well as other matters. If our tax strategies are ineffective or we are not in compliance with domestic and international tax laws, our financial position, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Risks Relating to Product Development, Commercialization and Sales of our Products. New test development involves a lengthy and complex process, and we may be unable to commercialize on a timely basis, or at all, any new tests we may develop.. We have tests in development, including an IVD version of our invasive breast cancer test, and devote considerable resources to research and development. There can be no assurance that our new Oncotype tests or IVD versions of our current tests will be capable of reliably predicting the recurrence of cancers with the sensitivity and specificity necessary to be clinically useful and commercially viable. We also cannot be certain that the products we launch will attain widespread use among the intended target of community oncologists. In addition, before we can develop diagnostic tests for new cancers or other diseases and commercialize any new products, we will need to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconduct substantial research and development;. 39. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconduct validation studies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpend significant funds;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelop and scale our laboratory processes to accommodate different tests; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelop and scale our infrastructure to be able to analyze increasingly large amounts of data and to add new capabilities, such as inventory management.. Our product development process involves a high degree of risk and may take several years. Our product development efforts may fail for many reasons, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure of the product at the research or development stage;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty in accessing tissue and blood samples;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchallenges in timely patient enrollment in future clinical trials; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlack of clinical validation data to support the effectiveness of the product.. Few research and development projects result in commercial products, and success in early clinical trials often is not replicated in later studies. At any point, we may abandon development of a product candidate or we may be required to expend considerable resources repeating clinical trials, which would adversely impact the timing for generating potential revenues from those product candidates. If a clinical validation study fails to demonstrate the prospectively defined endpoints of the study, we might choose to abandon the development of the product or product feature that was the subject of the clinical trial, which could harm our business. In addition, competitors may develop and commercialize competing products faster than we are able to do so.. If we are unable to support demand for our tests, including successfully managing the evolution of our technology and business systems, our business could suffer.. As our test volume grows and we examine additional means through which we can provide our tests, we will need to continue to ramp up our testing capacity, implement increases in scale and related processing, customer service, billing and systems process improvements, and expand our internal quality assurance program, technology and manufacturing platforms to support testing on a larger scale. We will also need additional certified laboratory scientists and other scientific and technical personnel to process higher volumes of our tests. We cannot assure you that any increases in scale, related improvements and quality assurance will be successfully implemented or that appropriate personnel will be available. As additional products are commercialized, we will need to bring new equipment on - line, implement new systems, technology, controls and procedures and hire personnel with different qualifications. We cannot assure you that any such efforts will not result in delays. Failure to implement necessary procedures, transition to new equipment or processes or to hire the necessary personnel could result in higher cost of processing or an inability to meet market demand. There can be no assurance that we will be able to perform tests on a timely basis at a level consistent with demand, that our efforts to scale our commercial operations will not negatively affect the quality of test results, or that we will be successful in responding to the growing complexity of our testing operations. If we encounter difficulty meeting market demand or quality standards for our tests, our reputation could be harmed and our future prospects and our business could suffer.. We may experience limits on our revenues if physicians or patients decide not to order our tests.. If medical practitioners do not order our Oncotype tests or any future tests developed or offered by us, we will likely not be able to create or maintain demand for our products in sufficient volume for us to achieve sustained profitability. To generate demand, we will need to continue to make oncologists, urologists, surgeons and pathologists aware of the benefits of each type of test through published papers, presentations at scientific conferences and one - on - one education by our salesforce. In addition, we will need to demonstrate our ability to obtain and maintain adequate reimbursement coverage from third - party payors.. Prior to the inclusion of our Oncotype DX invasive breast cancer test in clinical guidelines for treatment of N - , ER+ breast cancer, guidelines and practices regarding the treatment of breast cancer recommended that chemotherapy be considered in most cases, including many cases in which our test might indicate that, based on our clinical trial results, chemotherapy would be of little or no benefit. For these historical reasons, physicians may be reluctant to order a test that may suggest. 40. Table of Contents. recommending against chemotherapy in treating breast cancer. Moreover, our test provides quantitative information not currently provided by pathologists and it is performed at our facility rather than by the pathologist in a local laboratory, so pathologists may be reluctant to support our test. These facts may make it difficult for us to convince medical practitioners to order our test for their patients, which could limit our ability to generate revenues and achieve sustained profitability.. We will need to continue to educate physicians, patients and payors about the benefits and cost - effectiveness of our tests and to establish reimbursement arrangements for these tests with payors. We have and expect to continue to hire additional commercial, sales, scientific, technical and other personnel to support this process. If our marketing and educational efforts do not result in sufficient physician or patient demand, we may not be able to obtain adequate reimbursement for our tests. If we fail to successfully establish adoption of and additional reimbursement beyond Medicare for our colon and prostate cancer tests, our reputation could be harmed and our business could suffer.. Some patients may decide not to use our Oncotype tests due to their price, all or part of which may be payable directly by the patient if the applicable payor denies reimbursement in full or in part. Even if medical practitioners recommend that their patients use our tests, patients may still decide not to use our tests, either because they do not want to be made aware of the likelihood of recurrence or they wish to pursue a particular course of therapy regardless of test results. Additionally, the current economic environment in the United States and abroad could continue to negatively impact patients, resulting in higher co - payments and insurance premiums or the loss of healthcare coverage, which may result in delayed medical checkups or an inability to pay for our tests. If only a small portion of the patient population decides to use our tests, we will experience limits on our revenues and our ability to achieve sustained profitability.. Our dependence on distributors for sales of our Oncotype tests outside of the U.S. could limit or prevent us from selling our test in foreign markets and impact our revenue.. As of December 31, 2017, we have entered into exclusive distribution agreements for the sale of our tests with distributors covering more than 90 countries. We may enter into other similar arrangements to distribute our tests in other countries in the future. We intend to continue to grow our business internationally, and to do so we may need to attract additional distributors to expand the territories in which we sell our tests. Despite contractual obligations, distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our tests to the level of our expectations. If current or future distributors do not perform adequately, or we are unable to enter into arrangements with distributors to market our tests in particular geographic areas, we may not realize long - term international revenue growth. In addition, our revenue from distributors could be negatively impacted as a result of changes in business cycles, business or economic conditions, reimbursement rates, changes in foreign currency exchange rates that make our tests more expensive in our distributors' local currencies or other factors that could affect their ability to pay us for tests on a timely basis or at all.. Our rights to use technologies licensed from third parties are not within our control, and we may not be able to sell our products if we lose our existing rights or cannot obtain new rights on reasonable terms.. We license from third parties technology necessary to develop our products. In return for the use of a third party's technology, we may agree to pay the licensor royalties based on sales of our products. Royalties are a component of cost of product revenues and impact the margins on our tests. We may need to license other technologies to commercialize future products. We may also need to negotiate licenses to patents and patent applications after launching any of our commercial products. Our business may suffer if these licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license, determine to unilaterally stop supplying technologies or products subject to a license, or fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid, if the patents or patent applications are unavailable for license or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms.. If we are unable to develop products to keep pace with rapid technological, medical and scientific change, our operating results and competitive position could be harmed.. In recent years, there have been numerous advances in technologies relating to the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. For example, technologies in addition to ours now permit measurement of gene expression in fixed paraffin - embedded tissue specimens or blood or urine. There have also been advances in methods used to analyze very large amounts of genomic information, specifically NGS. These advances require us to continuously develop our technology, develop new products and enhance existing products to keep pace with evolving standards of care. Our tests could become obsolete unless we continually innovate and expand our products to demonstrate recurrence and treatment benefit in patients treated with new therapies. New treatment therapies typically have only a few years of clinical data associated with them, which limits our ability to perform clinical studies and correlate sets of genes to a new treatment's effectiveness. Additionally, as new products are developed, evolving industry standards and metrics may slow the widespread adoption of any new products we may introduce. If we are. 41. Table of Contents. unable to demonstrate the applicability of our tests to new treatments or to keep pace with new industry standards, sales of our test could decline, which would harm our revenues.. If we are unable to compete successfully, we may be unable to increase or sustain our revenues or achieve sustained profitability.. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive industry, and there are a number of private and public companies that offer products or have conducted research to profile genes and gene expression in breast, colon and prostate cancer, including companies such as Agendia Inc., BioTheranostics, Exact Sciences, Inc. GenomeDx Biosciences Inc., Hologic Inc., Myriad Genetics Inc. (and its Sividon Diagnostics subsidiary), NanoString Technologies Inc., NeoGenomics, Inc. and Qiagen N.V. As we look to expand our research, development and commercialization efforts, we may face competition from companies such as Danaher Corporation (and its Cepheid, Inc. subsidiary), Exosome Diagnostics, Inc., Foundation Medicine, Grail, Guardant Health, MDxHealth, Metamark Genetics, Inc., Natera Inc. and Personal Genome Diagnostics, Inc. Historically, our principal competition for our Oncotype tests has also come from existing diagnostic methods used by pathologists and oncologists, and such traditional diagnostic methods can be difficult to change or supplement. We also face competition from commercial laboratories with strong distribution networks for diagnostic tests, such as Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings and Quest Diagnostics Incorporated. Other potential competitors include companies that develop diagnostic tests such as Roche Diagnostics, a division of Roche Holding, Ltd, and Siemens AG, as well as other companies and academic and research institutions.. In our more recently established prostate cancer market, we face comparatively greater competition than in our breast cancer market, including competition from products which were on the market prior to our product launch and which are supported by clinical studies and published data. This existing direct and indirect competition for tests and procedures may make it difficult to gain market share, impact our ability to obtain reimbursement or result in a substantial increase in resources necessary for us to successfully continue to commercialize our Oncotype DX prostate test and the recently launched Oncotype DX AR-V7 Nucleus Detect test.. As more information regarding cancer genomics becomes available to the public, we anticipate that more products aimed at identifying targeted treatment options will be developed and that these products may compete with ours. In addition, competitors may develop their own versions of our tests in countries where we did not apply for patents, where our patents have not issued or where our intellectual property rights are not recognized and compete with us in those countries, including encouraging the use of their test by physicians or patients in other countries. We have changed the list price of our tests in the past and we expect to change prices for our tests in the future. Any increase or decrease in pricing could impact reimbursement of and demand for our tests. Many of our present and potential competitors have widespread brand recognition and substantially greater financial and technical resources and development, production and marketing capabilities than we do. Others may develop lower - priced tests that could be viewed by physicians and payors as functionally equivalent to our tests, or offer tests at prices designed to promote market penetration, which could force us to lower the list prices of our tests and impact our operating margins and our ability to achieve sustained profitability. Some competitors have developed tests cleared or approved for marketing by the FDA. There may be a marketing differentiation or perception that an FDA - cleared or approved test is more desirable than Oncotype tests, which are LDTs, and that may discourage adoption of and reimbursement for our tests. If we are unable to compete successfully against current or future competitors, we may be unable to increase market acceptance for and sales of our tests, which could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues or achieving sustained profitability and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. Our research and development efforts will be hindered if we are not able to contract with third parties for access to tissue or complete timely enrollment in future clinical trials.. Under standard clinical practice, tumor biopsies removed from patients are typically chemically preserved and embedded in paraffin wax and stored. Our clinical development relies on our ability to secure access to these archived tumor biopsy samples, as well as information pertaining to their associated clinical outcomes. Generally, the agreements under which we gain access to archival samples are nonexclusive. Other companies study archival samples and often compete with us for access. Additionally, the process of negotiating access to archived samples is lengthy since it typically involves numerous parties and approval levels to resolve complex issues such as usage rights, institutional review board approval, privacy rights, publication rights, intellectual property ownership and research parameters. If we are not able to negotiate access to clinical samples with hospitals, clinical partners, pharmaceutical companies, or companies developing therapeutics on a timely basis, or at all, or if other laboratories or our competitors secure access to these samples before us, our ability to research, develop and commercialize future products will be limited or delayed. Finally, we may not be able to conduct or complete clinical trials on a timely basis if we are not able to enroll sufficient numbers of patients in such trials, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our research and development and product commercialization efforts.. 42. Table of Contents. If we cannot successfully maintain or manage our current collaborations or enter into new collaborations, our product development could be delayed and our introduction of new products into the market could be adversely affected which could have an adverse effect on our financial results.. We rely on and expect to continue to rely on clinical collaborators to perform a substantial portion of our clinical trial functions. If any of our collaborators were to breach or terminate its agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct the contracted activities successfully and in a timely manner, the research, development or commercialization of the products contemplated by the collaboration could be delayed or terminated. If any of our clinical collaboration agreements are terminated, or if we are unable to renew those agreements on acceptable terms, we would be required to seek alternatives. We may not be able to negotiate agreements with alternate collaborators on acceptable terms, if at all, and these collaborations may not be successful.. In the past, we have entered into clinical trial collaborations with highly regarded organizations in the cancer field. Our success in the future depends in part on our ability to enter into agreements with other leading cancer organizations. This can be difficult due to internal and external constraints placed on these organizations. Some organizations may limit the number of collaborations they have with any one company so as to not be perceived as biased or conflicted. Organizations may also have insufficient administrative and related infrastructure to enable collaborations with many companies at once, which can prolong the time it takes to develop, negotiate and implement collaboration. Additionally, organizations often insist on retaining the rights to publish the clinical data resulting from the collaboration. We have found the publication of clinical data in peer - reviewed journals to be a crucial step in commercializing and obtaining reimbursement for tests such as ours, and our inability to control when, if ever, results are published may delay or limit our ability to derive sufficient revenues from any product that may result from a collaboration.. We have only recent experience in commercializing products through collaborations with third parties, which includes our commercial collaboration with Epic Sciences, our in-licensing rights granted by Cleveland Diagnostics, and our license and development agreement with Biocartis.  The collaboration with Epic Sciences poses a number of risks, including, among others, whether we will be able to obtain adequate reimbursement for Oncotype DX AR-V7 Nucleus Detect with both public and private payors, whether our commercial channel will be successful in creating market demand for Oncotype DX AR-V7 Nucleus Detect, whether Epic Sciences is able to obtain and maintain appropriate state laboratory licensure, and whether our information technology and reporting systems are adequately and securely integrated with those of Epic Sciences. We are also subject to legal, regulatory, and governmental risks with regards to the performance and delivery of Oncotype DX AR-V7 Nucleus Detect tests, given that Epic Sciences is a centralized CLIA laboratory performing such tests.. The loss of key members of our senior management team or our inability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists, software engineers, clinicians and salespeople could adversely affect our business.. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our executive management team and others in key management positions. The efforts of each of these persons together will be critical to us as we continue to develop our technologies and testing processes, continue our international expansion and transition to a company with multiple commercialized products. If we were to lose one or more of these key employees, we may experience difficulties in competing effectively, developing our technologies and implementing our business strategies.. Our research and development programs, commercial laboratory operations and information technology infrastructure depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists, technicians and engineers, including licensed laboratory technicians, chemists, biostatisticians and software engineers. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified scientists, technicians and software engineers in the future due to the competition for qualified personnel among life science and technology businesses, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area. We also face competition from universities and public and private research institutions in recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific personnel. In addition, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain salespeople with extensive experience in oncology and urology and close relationships with medical oncologists, urologists, surgeons, pathologists and other hospital personnel. All of our employees in the United States are at-will, which means that either we or the employee may terminate their employment at any time. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, our business and operating results could be harmed.. 43. Table of Contents. We rely on a limited number of suppliers or, in many cases, a sole supplier, for some of our laboratory instruments and materials and may not be able to find replacement suppliers or immediately transition to alternative suppliers.. We rely on many sole suppliers to supply and service some of the laboratory equipment on which we perform our tests. We believe that there are relatively few equipment manufacturers that are currently capable of supplying and servicing the equipment necessary for our tests. Although we have identified alternative suppliers, transition to a new supplier would be time consuming and expensive, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to secure alternative equipment and bring that equipment on line without experiencing interruptions in testing. If we should encounter delays or difficulties in securing the quality and quantity of equipment we require for our tests, we may need to reconfigure our test processes, which could result in an interruption in sales. If any of these events occur, our business and operating results could be harmed.. We also rely on several sole suppliers for certain laboratory reagents and materials which we use to perform our tests. While we have developed alternate sourcing strategies for these materials, we cannot be certain that these strategies will be effective. If we should encounter delays or difficulties in securing these laboratory materials, if the materials do not meet our quality specifications, or if we cannot obtain acceptable substitute materials, an interruption in test processing could occur. Any such interruption may significantly affect future product revenues.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to maintain intellectual property protection, our competitive position could be harmed.. Our ability to compete and to achieve sustained profitability is impacted by our ability to protect our proprietary discoveries and technologies. We currently rely on a combination of issued patents, patent applications, copyrights, trademarks, and confidentiality, material data transfer, license and invention assignment agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. We also rely upon trade secret laws to protect unpatented know - how and continuing technological innovation. Our intellectual property strategy is intended to develop and maintain our competitive position.. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and we cannot assure you that our issued patents or any patents that might ultimately be issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, will protect our technology. In addition, we do not file patent applications in every country nor is patent protection available in every country. We may face competition internationally in jurisdictions where we do not have intellectual property protection. Any patents that may be issued to us might be challenged by third parties as being invalid or unenforceable, or third parties may independently develop similar or competing technology that avoids our patents.. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation and use of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States.. If patent regulations or standards are modified, such changes could have a negative impact on our business.. From time to time, the U.S. Supreme Court, other federal courts, the U.S. Congress or the USPTO may change the standards of patentability and validity of patents within the genomic diagnostic space, and any such changes could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, competitors may develop their own versions of our test in countries where we did not apply for patents or where our patents have not issued and compete with us in those countries, including encouraging the use of their test by physicians or patients in other countries.. There have been several cases involving \"gene patents\" and diagnostic claims that have been considered by the U.S. Supreme Court. In March 2012, the Supreme Court in Mayo Collaborative v. Prometheus Laboratories, or Prometheus, found a patented diagnostic method claim unpatentable because the relationship between a metabolite concentration and optimized dosage was a patent - ineligible \"law of nature.\" In June 2013, the Supreme Court ruled in ACLU v. Myriad Genetics, or Myriad, that an isolated genomic DNA sequence is not patent eligible while cDNA is eligible. Both the Prometheus and Myriad decisions affect the legal concept of subject matter eligibility by seemingly narrowing the scope of the statute defining patentable inventions.. In December 2014, the USPTO published revised guidelines for patent examiners to apply when examining process claims for patent eligibility in view of several recent Supreme Court decisions, including Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc., Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc., and Alice Corporation Pty. Ltd. V. CLS Bank International, et al. The guidance indicates that claims directed to a law of nature, a natural phenomenon, or an. 44. Table of Contents. abstract idea that do not meet the eligibility requirements should be rejected as non - statutory, patent ineligible subject matter. We cannot assure you that our patent portfolio will not be negatively impacted by the decisions described above, rulings in other cases or changes in guidance or procedures issued by the USPTO.. Additional substantive changes to patent law, whether new or associated with the America Invents Act, may affect our ability to obtain, enforce or defend our patents. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the new law will ultimately have on the cost of prosecuting our patent applications, our ability to obtain patents based on our discoveries and our ability to enforce or defend our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time - consuming and costly to defend, and could result in our loss of significant rights and the assessment of treble damages.. We have in the past, and may in the future, receive notices of claims of infringement and misappropriation or misuse of other parties' proprietary rights and may from time to time receive additional notices. Some of these claims may lead to litigation. We cannot assure you that we will prevail in such actions, or that other actions alleging misappropriation or misuse by us of third - party trade secrets, alleging infringement by us of third - party patents and trademarks or challenging the validity of our patents, will not be asserted or prosecuted against us. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if that infringement were found to be willful) to the party claiming infringement, develop non - infringing technology, stop selling our tests or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or commercially practical terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non - infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business.. We may also initiate claims to defend our intellectual property or to seek relief on allegations that we use, sell, or offer to sell technology that incorporates third-party intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation, regardless of outcome, is expensive and time - consuming, could divert management's attention from our business and have a material negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, revising our tests to include the non - infringing technologies would require us to re - validate our tests, which would be costly and time consuming. Also, we may be unaware of pending third-party patent applications that relate to our tests. Parties making infringement claims on future issued patents may be able to obtain an injunction that could prevent us from selling our tests or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could harm our business.. It is possible that a third party or patent office might take the position that one or more patents or patent applications constitute prior art in the field of genomic-based diagnostics. In such a case, we might be required to pay royalties, damages and costs to firms who own the rights to these patents, or we might be restricted from using any of the inventions claimed in those patents."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
