[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital. We have incurred significant losses since our founding in 2006 and anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future and may never achieve or maintain profitability.. We are a preclinical-stage biotechnology company, and we have not yet generated significant revenues. We have incurred net losses each year since our inception, including net losses of $56.7 million, $49.6 million, and $42.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.  As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had accumulated deficits of approximately $264.2 million and $207.5 million, respectively. To date, we have not commercialized any products or generated any revenues from the sale of products and have financed our operations primarily through private placements of our preferred stock, debt financing, our initial public offering (\"IPO\") completed in February 2014, and follow-on public offerings in March 2015, August 2015 and January 2018 and we do not expect to generate any product revenues in the foreseeable future. We do not know whether or when we will generate product revenues or become profitable.. We have devoted most of our financial resources to research and development, including our clinical and non-clinical technology development and development activities. The amount of our future net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of our future expenditures and our ability to obtain funding through equity or debt financings, strategic collaborations or additional grants. We have not completed pivotal clinical studies for any product candidate and, as we have ceased development of our most advanced clinical-stage product candidate, GEN-003, and are instead focusing on our earlier stage neoantigen cancer vaccine product candidates, it will be several years, if ever, before we have a product candidate ready for commercialization. Even if we obtain regulatory approval to market a product candidate, our future revenues will depend upon the size of any markets in which our product candidates have received approval, our ability to achieve sufficient market acceptance, reimbursement from third-party payors and other factors.. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. We anticipate that our expenses will increase significantly if and as we:. •  file an IND application and initiate clinical trials for GEN-009, our most advanced product candidate in active development focused on neoantigen cancer vaccines, and initiate non-clinical or clinical studies for our other product candidates;. • manufacture material for clinical trials and for commercial sale;. • seek regulatory approvals for any product candidates that successfully complete clinical trials;. • establish a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure to commercialize any products for which we may obtain marketing approval;. • seek to discover and develop additional product candidates;. • acquire or in-license other product candidates and technologies;. • make royalty, milestone or other payments under any in-license agreements;. • maintain, protect and expand our intellectual property portfolio;. • attract and retain skilled personnel; and. • create additional infrastructure to support our operations as a public company and our product development and planned future commercialization efforts.. The net losses we incur may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year, such that a period-to-period comparison of our results of operations may not be a good indication of our future performance. In any particular quarter or quarters, our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline.. 20. To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in developing and eventually commercializing products that generate significant revenue. This will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including completing non-clinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates, discovering additional product candidates, obtaining regulatory approval for these product candidates and manufacturing, marketing and selling any products for which we may obtain regulatory approval. We are only in the preliminary stages of most of these activities. We may never succeed in these activities and, even if we do, may never generate revenues that are significant enough to achieve profitability.. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, we are unable to accurately predict the timing or amount of increased expenses or when, or if, we will be able to achieve profitability. If we are required by the FDA or the European Medicines Agency to perform studies in addition to those currently expected, or if there are any delays in completing our clinical trials or the development of any of our product candidates, our expenses could increase.. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable would depress the value of our company and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, maintain our research and development efforts, diversify our product offerings or even continue our operations. A decline in the value of our company could also cause you to lose all or part of your investment.. We will require substantial additional financing to achieve our goals, and a failure to obtain this necessary capital when needed would force us to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts.. As of December 31, 2017, our cash and cash equivalents were $12.3 million. On January 19, 2018, we consummated concurrent public offerings of our common stock and warrants exercisable for shares of our common stock and preferred stock and warrants exercisable for shares of our common stock (the \"Concurrent Offerings\"), which raised net proceeds of $51.7 million. We believe that we will continue to expend substantial resources for the foreseeable future developing GEN-009 and any other neoantigen cancer vaccine product candidates. These expenditures will include costs associated with research and development, potentially acquiring new technologies, potentially obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing products, as well as marketing and selling products approved for sale, if any. In addition, other unanticipated costs may arise. Because the outcome of our planned and anticipated clinical trials is highly uncertain, we cannot reasonably estimate the actual amounts necessary to successfully complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates. Furthermore, because of the significant expense associated with conducting clinical trials, we cannot be certain we will have sufficient capital to complete such trials for a given product candidate.. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including:. • the costs associated with filing an IND application and initiating our planned Phase 1 program for GEN-009;. • the number and development requirements of other product candidates that we pursue;. • the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates if clinical trials are successful and the outcome of regulatory review of our product candidates;. • the cost and timing of future commercialization activities for our products, if any of our product candidates are approved for marketing, including product manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution costs;. • the cost of our general and administrative functions;. • the revenue, if any, received from commercial sales of our product candidates for which we receive marketing approval;. • the cost of manufacturing our product candidates for clinical trials in preparation for regulatory approval and in preparation for commercialization;. • our ability to establish and maintain strategic partnerships, licensing or other arrangements and the financial terms of such agreements;. • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting patent applications, maintaining, defending and enforcing our intellectual property rights, including litigation costs and the outcome of such litigation;. 21. • the timing, receipt, and amount of sales of, or royalties or milestone payments on, our future products, if any; and. • the extent to which we acquire or in-license other products or technologies.. In September 2017, we announced that we are exploring strategic alternatives for GEN-003. Consequently, substantially all GEN-003 spending and activities were ceased and we reduced our workforce by approximately 40 percent.. Based on our current operating plan, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with the proceeds of the Concurrent Offerings, are sufficient to support our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements into the second half of 2019, without assuming the expected benefit of the restructuring or refinancing of our debt facility.. Our operating plan may change as a result of many factors currently unknown to us, and we may need additional funds sooner than planned. In addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available to us when needed, we would be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate non-clinical studies, clinical trials or other development activities for one or more of our product candidates or delay, limit, reduce or terminate our establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities that may be necessary to commercialize our product candidates.. Our lead product candidate, GEN-009, is in an early stage of development and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in advancing it through clinical development, obtaining regulatory approval for it, or commercializing it or any of our future product candidates.. At this time, GEN-009 is our most advanced product candidate under active development and our future revenues, if any, will depend highly on the successful development, approval, and commercialization of GEN-009. GEN-009 and any future product candidate will require substantial clinical development, testing and regulatory approval before we are permitted to commence commercialization. This process can take many years and will require the expenditure of substantial resources and we expect it will require that we obtain substantial additional funding.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates on unfavorable terms to us.. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity offerings, debt financings and license and development agreements with strategic partnerships with third parties. In 2015, we raised additional net capital of approximately $95.2 million through follow-on public offerings in March and August along with $4.7 million of net debt financing in December. In January 2018, we raised additional net capital of approximately $51.7 million through the Concurrent Offerings. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a stockholder. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take certain actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, we would be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts for GEN-009, our immuno-oncology program, or our other product candidates. For example, in September 2017, we ceased substantially all spending and activities related to GEN-003, pending our exploration of strategic alternatives for advancing that product candidate. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, we may also be required to grant rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves.. Our stockholders will experience substantial additional dilution if shares of our preferred stock are converted into, or outstanding options or warrants are exercised for, common stock.. As of February 14, 2018, there were 1,635 shares of our Series A convertible preferred stock outstanding, which are convertible, without payment of additional consideration, into 1,635,000 shares of our common stock. As of February 14, 2018, there were 29,108,153 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of warrants, having a weighted average exercise price of $1.22 per share, and 5,516,213 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options outstanding, having a weighted average exercise price of $4.19 per share. The conversion of the outstanding shares of our Series A convertible preferred stock into, or exercise of outstanding options or warrants for, common stock would be substantially dilutive to the. 22. outstanding shares of common stock. Any dilution or potential dilution may cause our stockholders to sell their shares, which may contribute to a downward movement in the stock price of our common stock.. Risks Related to Clinical Development, Regulatory Review and Approval of Our Product Candidates. We are substantially dependent on the success of the clinical development of GEN-009, our only product candidate currently in active development. Any failure to successfully develop or commercialize the GEN-009 vaccine, or any significant delays in doing so, will have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations and financial condition.. In September 2017, we ceased substantially all spending and activities related to GEN-003, our Phase 3-ready product candidate, pending our exploration of strategic alternatives for advancing that product candidate. We are now currently investing a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of the GEN-009, a neoantigen cancer vaccine which is currently in pre-clinical development. Our ability to generate product revenue depends heavily on the success of clinical trials for GEN-009 and the successful development and commercialization of GEN-009. The successful development and commercialization of GEN-009 will depend on several factors, including the following:. • successful filing of an IND application for GEN-009;. • successful completion of all required clinical trials of GEN-009;. • obtaining marketing approvals from regulatory authorities for GEN-009;. • establishing manufacturing and commercialization arrangements between ourselves and third parties;. • establishing an acceptable safety and efficacy profile of GEN-009; and. • the availability of reimbursement to patients from healthcare payors for GEN-009.. Any failure to successfully develop or commercialize GEN-009 or any significant delays in doing so will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Because our active product candidate is in an early stage of development, there is a high risk of failure, and we may never succeed in developing marketable products or generating product revenue.. We have not conducted any clinical trials for GEN-009. Any successful results in non-clinical studies may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and successful results from early or small clinical trials of a vaccine candidate may not be replicated in later and larger clinical trials. Among other reasons for the potential failure of earlier, smaller clinical trials to be replicated in later, larger clinical trials is the fact that manufacturing scale up is necessary to prepare for Phase 3 development and commercialization. Our product candidates may require complex manufacturing processes, and scaling up these processes can cause changes in the product that may not be apparent until the product is further tested during Phase 3 trials.. If the results of our future clinical trials are inconclusive with respect to the efficacy of our product candidates or if we do not meet our clinical endpoints with statistical significance or if there are safety concerns or AEs associated with our product candidates, we may be prevented or delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates. Alternatively, even if we obtain regulatory approval, that approval may be for indications or patient populations that are not as broad as intended or desired or may require labeling that includes significant use or distribution restrictions or safety warnings. We may also be required to perform additional or unanticipated clinical trials to obtain approval or be subject to additional post-marketing testing requirements to maintain regulatory approval. In addition, regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product or impose restrictions on its distribution in the form of a modified risk evaluation and mitigation strategy.. Furthermore, we need to develop the supply chain for any product candidates we identify.. If we do not obtain regulatory approval for our current and future product candidates, our business will be adversely affected.. Our product candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to, among other things, research, clinical trials, manufacturing, import, export and commercialization. In order to obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any product candidate, we must demonstrate through extensive non-clinical studies and clinical trials that the product. 23. candidate is safe and effective for use in each target indication. Clinical trials are expensive, time-consuming and uncertain as to outcome. We may gain regulatory approval for GEN-009 or our other current or potential future clinical and non-clinical product candidates in some but not all of the territories available or some but not all of the target indications, resulting in limited commercial opportunity for the approved vaccine or immunotherapy, or we may never obtain regulatory approval for these product candidates for any indication in any jurisdiction.. We may find it difficult to enroll patients in our clinical trials, which could delay or prevent clinical trials of our product candidates.. Identifying and qualifying patients to participate in clinical trials of our product candidates is critical to our success. The timing of our clinical trials depends on the speed at which we can recruit patients to participate in testing our product candidates. If patients are unwilling to participate in our studies because of negative publicity from AEs in the biotechnology industries or for other reasons, including competitive clinical trials for similar patient populations, the timeline for recruiting patients, conducting studies and obtaining regulatory approval of potential products may be delayed or prevented. These delays could result in increased costs, delays in advancing our product development, delays in testing the effectiveness of our technology or termination of the clinical trials altogether.. We may not be able to identify, recruit and enroll a sufficient number of patients, or those with required or desired characteristics to achieve diversity in a study, to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner. Patient enrollment is affected by factors including:. • severity of the disease under investigation;. • design of the study protocol;. • size of the patient population;. • eligibility criteria for the trial in question;. • perceived risks and benefits of the product candidate under study;. • proximity and availability of clinical trial sites for prospective patients;. • availability of competing therapies and clinical trials;. • efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials;. • patient referral practices of physicians; and. • ability to monitor patients adequately during and after treatment.. We may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials if we cannot enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in the clinical trials required by regulatory agencies. If we have difficulty enrolling a sufficient number of patients to conduct our clinical trials as planned, we may need to delay, limit or terminate ongoing or planned clinical trials, any of which would have an adverse effect on our business.. We may not be able to comply with requirements of foreign jurisdictions in conducting trials outside of the United States.. To date, we have not conducted any clinical trials outside of the United States. Our ability to successfully initiate, enroll and complete a clinical trial in any foreign country, should we attempt to do so, is subject to numerous risks unique to conducting business in foreign countries, including:. • difficulty in establishing or managing relationships with CROs and physicians;. • different standards for the conduct of clinical trials;. • our inability to locate qualified local consultants, physicians and partners;. 24. • the potential burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws, medical standards and regulatory requirements, including the regulation of pharmaceutical and biotechnology products and treatment; and. • the acceptability of data obtained from studies conducted outside the United States to the FDA in support of a BLA.. If we fail to successfully meet requirements for the conduct of clinical trials outside of the United States, we may be delayed in obtaining, or be unable to obtain, regulatory approval for our product candidates.. We may encounter substantial delays in our clinical trials or we may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities.. Before obtaining marketing approval from regulatory authorities for the sale of our product candidates, we must conduct extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product candidates for the intended indications. Clinical testing is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain as to outcome. We cannot guarantee that clinical trials will be conducted as planned or completed on schedule, if at all. A failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. Events that may prevent successful or timely completion of clinical development include:. • delays by us in reaching a consensus with regulatory agencies on trial design, including the IND for GEN-009 expected to be filed with the FDA in the first quarter of 2018 and initiation of our Phase 1 clinical trial for GEN-009 expected to occur in mid-2018;. • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and clinical trial sites;. • delays in obtaining required Institutional Review Board (\"IRB\") approval at each clinical trial site;. • imposition of a clinical hold by regulatory agencies or an IRB for any reason, including safety concerns raised by other clinical trials of similar vaccines that may reflect an unacceptable risk with GEN-009 or after an inspection of clinical operations or trial sites;. • failure to perform in accordance with the FDA's good clinical practices (\"GCPs\") or applicable regulatory guidelines in other countries;. • delays in the testing, validation, manufacturing and delivery of the product candidates to the clinical sites;. • delays caused by patients not completing participation in a trial or not returning for post-treatment follow-up;. • clinical trial sites or patients dropping out of a trial or failing to complete dosing;. • occurrence of serious AEs in clinical trials that are associated with the product candidates that are viewed to outweigh its potential benefits; or. • changes in regulatory requirements and guidance that require amending or submitting new clinical protocols.. Delays, including delays caused by the above factors, can be costly and could negatively affect our ability to complete a clinical trial.  We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to resolve any delay caused by the factors described above or any other factors, on a timely basis or at all. If we are not able to successfully initiate and complete subsequent clinical trials, we will not be able to obtain regulatory approval and will not be able to commercialize our product candidates.. Our active product candidate, GEN-009, and our current and future potential product candidates arising out of our immuno-oncology program, are or will be based on T cell activation, which is a novel approach for vaccines, immunotherapies and medical treatments.. We have concentrated our research and development efforts on T cell vaccine and immunotherapy technology, which is a novel approach for vaccines, immuno-therapies and medical treatments, and our future success is highly dependent on the successful development of T cell immunotherapies in general, and our active development product and current and future product candidates in particular. Consequently, it may be difficult for us to predict the time and cost of product development. Unforeseen problems with the T cell approach to vaccines and immunotherapies may prevent further development or approval of our current and future product candidates. There can be no assurance that any development problems we or others. 25. researching T cell vaccines and immunotherapies may experience in the future will not cause significant delays or unanticipated costs, or that such development problems can be solved. Because of the novelty of this approach, there may be unknown safety risks associated with the vaccines and immunotherapies that we develop. Regulatory agencies such as the FDA may require us to conduct extensive safety testing prior to approval to demonstrate a low risk of rare and severe AEs caused by the vaccines and immunotherapies. If approved, the novel mechanism of action of the vaccines may adversely affect physician and patient perception and uptake of our products.. Our active development product, GEN-009, includes a novel vaccine adjuvant and our other current and potential future product candidates may include one or more novel adjuvants, which may make it difficult for us to predict the time and cost of product development as well as the requirements the FDA or other regulatory agencies may impose to demonstrate the safety of such product candidates.. Novel vaccine adjuvants, included in some of our product candidates, may pose an increased safety risk to patients. Adjuvants are compounds that are added to vaccine antigens to enhance the activation of the immune system and improve the immune response and efficacy of vaccines. Development of vaccines with novel adjuvants requires evaluation in larger numbers of patients prior to approval than would be typical for therapeutic drugs. Guidelines for evaluation of vaccines with novel adjuvants have been established by the FDA and other regulatory bodies and expert committees. Our product candidates, including GEN-009, may include one or more novel adjuvants. Any neoantigen cancer vaccine, because of the presence of an adjuvant, may have side effects considered to pose too great a risk to patients to warrant approval of the vaccine.. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval in jurisdictions outside the United States, we will not be able to market our products in those jurisdictions.. We intend to market our product candidates, if approved, in international markets. Such marketing will require separate regulatory approvals in each market and compliance with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedures vary among countries and may involve requirements for additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, a vaccine must be approved for reimbursement before it can be approved for sale in that country. In some cases, the price that we intend to charge for our vaccine is also subject to approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our vaccines in any market.. Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, such immunotherapies will be subject to ongoing regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense. Additionally, our product candidates, including our active development product, GEN-009, and any other current or potential future immunotherapy product candidates, if approved, could be subject to labeling and other restrictions, and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with our products.. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the approved indications for which the product may be marketed or to conditions of approval, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials, and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine or immunotherapy potentially over many years. In addition, if the FDA approves any of our product candidates, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, AE reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, as well as continued compliance with current good manufacturing practice (cGMP) and GCP, for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval.. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with an approved product, including AEs of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing operations or processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things:. • restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, withdrawal of the product from the market, or voluntary or mandatory product recalls;. • fines, warning letters, or holds on clinical trials;. 26. • refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals;. • product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; and. • injunctions or the imposition of civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, disgorgement, exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal health care programs, and curtailment or restructuring of our operations.. The FDA's policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could affect regulatory approval that we have received for our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that may have been obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business.. Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties. We rely on third parties to conduct non-clinical studies and clinical trials for our product candidates, including our active development product, GEN-009, and any other current or future product candidates, and if they do not properly and successfully perform their obligations to us, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates.. We intend to rely on third party CROs and other third parties to assist in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out our GEN-009 clinical trials. We expect to continue to rely on third parties, such as CROs, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators, to conduct our clinical trials. We compete with many other companies for the resources of these third parties. The third parties on whom we rely generally may terminate their engagements at any time, and having to enter into alternative arrangements would delay development and commercialization of our product candidates.. Our reliance on these third parties for research and development activities will reduce our control over these activities but will not relieve us of our responsibilities. For example, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities require compliance with regulations and standards, including GCP, for designing, conducting, monitoring, recording, analyzing, and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Although we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for ensuring that each of these clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol.. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements, if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to clinical trial protocols or to regulatory requirements, or if they otherwise fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or meet expected deadlines, the clinical trials of our product candidates may not meet regulatory requirements. If clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if these third parties need to be replaced, non-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates on a timely basis or at all.. We also expect to rely on other third parties to store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. Any performance failure on the part of our distributors could delay clinical development or marketing approval of our product candidates or commercialization of our products, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue.. We rely on third parties to conduct some or all aspects of our product manufacturing, and these third parties may not perform satisfactorily.. We do not have any manufacturing facilities or personnel. We do not expect to independently conduct all aspects of our product manufacturing. We intend to rely on third parties with respect to manufacturing GEN-009. We have also relied on third party suppliers and manufacturers to manufacture and supply vaccines for our GEN-003 clinical trials. This reliance on third parties increases the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of our product candidates or products or such quantities at an acceptable cost or quality, which could delay, prevent or impair our development or commercialization efforts.. Any of these third parties may terminate their engagement with us at any time. If we need to enter into alternative arrangements, it could delay our product development activities. Our reliance on these third parties for manufacturing activities. 27. will reduce our control over these activities but will not relieve us of our responsibility to ensure compliance with all required regulations regarding manufacturing.. Reliance on third party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured the product candidates ourselves, including:. • the inability to negotiate manufacturing agreements with third parties under commercially reasonable terms;. • reduced control as a result of using third party manufacturers for all aspects of manufacturing activities, including regulatory compliance and quality assurance;. • termination or nonrenewal of manufacturing agreements with third parties in a manner or at a time that is costly or damaging to us;. • the unavailability of a manufacturer that is capable of, or that has the capacity to, manufacture our clinical supply that results in delays or additional manufacturing costs;. • the possible misappropriation of our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and know-how or infringement of third party intellectual property rights by our contract manufacturers; and. • disruptions to the operations of our third party manufacturers or suppliers caused by conditions unrelated to our business or operations, including the bankruptcy of the manufacturer or supplier.. Any of these events could lead to clinical trial delays or failure to obtain regulatory approval, or affect our ability to successfully commercialize future products. Some of these events could be the basis for FDA action, including injunction, recall, seizure or total or partial suspension of production.. Third party manufacturers may not be able to comply with cGMP regulations or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Our failure, or the failure of our third party manufacturers, to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including clinical holds, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our products.. Our product candidates and any products that we may develop may compete with other product candidates and products for access to manufacturing facilities. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cGMP regulations and that might be capable of manufacturing for us.. Any performance failure on the part of our existing or future manufacturers could delay clinical development or marketing approval. We do not currently have arrangements in place for redundant supply or a second source for bulk drug substance. If our current contract manufacturers cannot perform as agreed, we may be required to replace such manufacturers. Although we believe that there are several potential alternative manufacturers who could manufacture our product candidates, we may incur added costs and delays in identifying and qualifying any such replacement.. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates or products may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to commercialize any products that receive marketing approval on a timely and competitive basis.. If we are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities, or at sufficient yields, or are unable to obtain regulatory approvals for a manufacturing facility for our products, we may experience delays in product development, clinical trials, regulatory approval and commercial distribution.. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our product candidates require access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture our product candidates at sufficient yields and at commercial-scale. We have no experience manufacturing, or managing third parties in manufacturing, any of our product candidates in the volumes that will be necessary to support large-scale clinical trials or commercial sales. Efforts to establish these capabilities may not meet initial expectations as to scheduling, scale-up, reproducibility, yield, purity, cost, potency or quality.. We expect to rely on third-parties for the manufacture of clinical and, if necessary, commercial quantities of our product candidates. These third-party manufacturers must also receive FDA approval before they can produce clinical material. 28. or commercial products. Our products may be in competition with other products for access to these facilities and may be subject to delays in manufacture if third-parties give other products greater priority. We may not be able to enter into any necessary third-party manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms, or on a timely basis. In addition, we may have to enter into technical transfer agreements and share our know-how with the third-party manufacturers, which can be time-consuming and may result in delays.. Our reliance on contract manufacturers may adversely affect our operations or result in unforeseen delays or other problems beyond our control. Because of contractual restraints and the limited number of third-party manufacturers with the expertise, required regulatory approvals and facilities to manufacture our bulk vaccines on a commercial-scale, replacement of a manufacturer may be expensive and time-consuming and may cause interruptions in the production of our vaccine. A third-party manufacturer may also encounter difficulties in production. These problems may include:. • difficulties with production costs, scale-up and yields;. • unavailability of raw materials and supplies;. • insufficient quality control and assurance;. • shortages of qualified personnel;. • failure to comply with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations that vary in each country where product might be sold; and. • lack of capital funding.. As a result, any delay or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be successful in establishing and maintaining strategic partnerships, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products.. A part of our strategy is to evaluate and, as deemed appropriate, enter into partnerships in the future when strategically attractive, including potentially with major biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate partners for our product candidates, and the negotiation process is time-consuming and complex. In order for us to successfully partner our product candidates, potential partners must view these product candidates as economically valuable in markets they determine to be attractive in light of the terms that we are seeking and other available products for licensing by other companies. Even if we are successful in our efforts to establish strategic partnerships, the terms that we agree upon may not be favorable to us, and we may not be able to maintain such strategic partnerships if, for example, development or approval of a product is delayed or sales of an approved product are disappointing. Any delay in entering into strategic partnership agreements related to our product candidates could delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates and reduce their competitiveness even if they reach the market.. In addition, our strategic partners may breach their agreements with us, and we may not be able to adequately protect our rights under these agreements. Furthermore, our strategic partners will likely negotiate for certain rights to control decisions regarding the development and commercialization of our product candidates, if approved, and may not conduct those activities in the same manner as we would do so.. If we fail to establish and maintain strategic partnerships related to our product candidates, we will bear all of the risk and costs related to the development of any such product candidate, and we may need to seek additional financing, hire additional employees and otherwise develop expertise which we do not have and for which we have not budgeted. This could negatively affect the development of any unpartnered product candidate. For example, in September 2017, we ceased substantially all spending and activities related to GEN-003, pending our exploration of strategic alternatives for advancing that product candidate.. In addition, we are currently seeking to establish strategic partnerships with companies with adjuvant and delivery technologies for our neoantigen cancer vaccine candidates. If we are unable to successfully enter into these partnerships, our ability to develop our neoantigen cancer vaccine candidates may be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. 29. If we are unable to obtain or protect intellectual property rights related to our product candidates, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets.. We rely upon a combination of patents, patent applications, know-how and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our platform technology and product candidates. The patent position of biotechnology companies is generally uncertain because it involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards applied by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (\"U.S. PTO\") and foreign patent offices in granting patents are not always applied uniformly or predictably. For example, there is no uniform worldwide policy regarding patentable subject matter or the scope of claims allowable in biotechnology patents. The patent applications that we own or in-license may fail to result in issued patents with claims that cover our discovery platform or product candidates in the United States or in other countries. There is no assurance that all potentially relevant prior art relating to our patents and patent applications or those of our licensors has been found, and prior art that we have not disclosed could be used by a third party to invalidate a patent or prevent a patent from issuing from a pending patent application. Even if patents do successfully issue and even if such patents cover our discovery platform or product candidates, third parties may challenge their validity, enforceability or scope, which may result in such patents being narrowed or invalidated. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents and patent applications, or those of our licensors, may not adequately protect our platform technology, provide exclusivity for our product candidates, prevent others from designing around our patents with similar products, or prevent others from operating in jurisdictions in which we did not pursue patent protection. Any of these outcomes could impair our ability to prevent competition from third parties, which may have an adverse impact on our business.. If patent applications we hold or have in-licensed with respect to our platform or product candidates fail to issue, if their breadth or strength of protection is threatened, or if they fail to provide meaningful exclusivity for our product candidates or ATLAS discovery platform, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us and could limit or destroy our ability to develop or commercialize one or more of our products, or even any product. We or our licensors have filed several patent applications covering aspects of our product candidates. We cannot offer any assurances about which, if any, patents will be issued, the breadth of any such patents or whether any issued patents will be found invalid and unenforceable or will be challenged by third parties. Any successful opposition to these patent applications, or patents that may issue from them, or to any other patent applications or patents owned by or licensed to us, could deprive us of rights necessary for the successful commercialization of any product candidate that we may develop. Since patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time after filing, and some remain so until issued, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to file a patent application relating to any particular aspect of a product candidate.. In the United States, for patent applications filed prior to March 16, 2013, assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, the first to invent is entitled to the patent, while outside the United States, the first to file a patent application is entitled to the patent. On March 16, 2013, the United States transitioned to a 'first to file' system more like that in the rest of the world in that the first inventor to file a patent application is entitled to the patent. Under either the prior system or current one, third parties are allowed to submit prior art prior to the issuance of a patent. Furthermore, both the U.S. and foreign patent systems permit third parties or, in some cases, the patent authorities themselves, to initiate proceedings challenging the scope and / or validity of issued patents, including for example, opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter partes review or interference proceedings. An adverse determination against our or our licensor's patent rights in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights, which could adversely affect our competitive position with respect to third parties.. In addition, patents have a limited lifespan. In most countries, including the United States, the natural expiration of a patent is 20 years from the date it is filed. Various extensions of patent term may be available in particular countries, however in all circumstances the life of a patent, and the protection it affords, has a limited term. If we encounter delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, the period of time during which we could market a product under patent protection could be reduced. We expect to seek extensions of patent terms where these are available in any countries where we are prosecuting patents. Such possible extensions include those permitted under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 in the United States, which permits a patent term extension of up to five years to cover an FDA-approved product. However, the applicable authorities, including the FDA in the United States, and any equivalent regulatory authority in other countries, may not agree with our assessment of whether such extensions are available, and may refuse to grant extensions to our patents, or may grant more limited extensions than we request. If this occurs, our competitors may be able to take advantage of our investment in development and clinical trials by referencing our clinical and non-clinical data, and then may be able to launch their product earlier than might otherwise be the case.. Filing, prosecuting and enforcing patents on our platform or product candidates in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States could be less. 30. extensive than those in the United States. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing our patents in all countries outside the United States, or from selling or importing products that infringe our patents in and into the United States or other jurisdictions. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and, further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing.. Any loss of, or failure to obtain, patent protection could have a material adverse impact on our business. We may be unable to prevent competitors from entering the market with a product that is similar to or the same as our products.. We may become involved in lawsuits to defend or enforce our intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents or misappropriate or otherwise violate our intellectual property rights, and competitors or other third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of those rights. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, or to defend against other challenges, litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and/or to determine the validity and scope of our own intellectual property rights or the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation can be expensive and time consuming. Many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to litigate intellectual property rights than we can. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, which could harm our business and financial results. In addition, in contested proceedings, a court or agency may decide that a patent owned by or licensed to us is invalid or unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable or interpreted narrowly. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation.. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement or misappropriation may prevent or delay our development and commercialization efforts.. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates, and to use our or our licensors' proprietary technologies without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. There is a substantial amount of litigation, both within and outside the United States, involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including patent infringement lawsuits, interferences, oppositions, reexamination, and inter partes review proceedings before the U.S. PTO and corresponding foreign patent offices. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties exist in the fields in which we are developing and may develop our product candidates. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our product candidates may be subject to claims of infringement of the patent rights of third parties.. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There may be third-party patents or patent applications with claims for example to materials, formulations, methods of manufacture, methods of analysis, and/or methods for treatment related to the use or manufacture of our products or product candidates. In some cases, we may have failed to identify such relevant third-party patents or patent applications. For example, applications filed before November 29, 2000 and certain applications filed after that date that will not be filed outside the United States remain confidential until patents issue. Except for the preceding exceptions, patent applications in the United States and elsewhere are generally published only after a waiting period of approximately 18 months after the earliest filing. Therefore, patent applications covering our platform technology or our products or product candidates could have been filed by others without our knowledge. Additionally, pending patent applications which have been published can, subject to certain limitations, be later amended in a manner that could cover our platform technologies, our products or product candidates and/or the use, analysis, and/or manufacture of our product candidates.. If any third-party patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover aspects of our materials, formulations, methods of manufacture, methods of analysis, and/or methods for treatment, the holders of any such patents would be able to block our ability to develop and commercialize the applicable product candidate until such patent expired or unless we obtain a license. Such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we were able to obtain a. 31. license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms.. Parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates. Defending against claims of patent infringement or misappropriation of trade secrets could be costly and time consuming, regardless of the outcome. Thus, even if we were to ultimately prevail, or to settle at an early stage, such litigation could burden us with substantial unanticipated costs. In addition, litigation or threatened litigation could result in significant demands on the time and attention of our management team, distracting them from the pursuit of other company business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees for willful infringement, pay royalties, redesign our infringing products or obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure.. We may face a claim of misappropriation if a third party believes that we inappropriately obtained and used trade secrets of such third party. If we are found to have misappropriated a third party's trade secrets, we may be prevented from further using such trade secrets, limiting our ability to develop our product candidates, and we may be required to pay damages. During the course of any patent or other intellectual property litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, rulings on motions, and other interim proceedings in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors regard these announcements as negative, the perceived value of our products, programs, or intellectual property could be diminished. Accordingly, the market price of our common stock may decline.. We have in-licensed a portion of our intellectual property, and, if we fail to comply with our obligations under these arrangements, or our licensors fail to obtain and maintain intellectual property rights, we could lose such intellectual property rights or owe damages to the licensor of such intellectual property.. We are a party to a number of license and collaboration agreements that are important to our business, and we may enter into additional license or collaboration agreements in the future. For example, our discovery platform is built, in part, around patents exclusively in-licensed from academic or research institutions. See \"Business - In-License Agreements\" and \"Business - Other Collaborations\" for a description of our outstanding license and collaboration agreements with the University of California, Harvard, and Novavax. These and other licenses may not provide exclusive rights to use such intellectual property and technology in all relevant fields of use and in all territories in which we may wish to develop or commercialize our technology and product candidates in the future. It is possible that we may be unable to obtain additional licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. As a result, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing and commercializing competitive products in territories included in all of our licenses. In that event, we may be required to expend significant time and resources to redesign our product candidates or to develop or license replacement technology, all of which may not be feasible on a technical or commercial basis. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to develop or commercialize the affected product candidates, which could harm our business significantly.. Our existing license agreements impose, and we expect that future license agreements will impose, various diligence, milestone payment, royalty and other obligations on us. For example, in our existing license agreements, and we expect in our future agreements, patent prosecution of our licensed technology may be controlled by the licensor, and we may be required to reimburse the licensor for their costs of patent prosecution. If our licensors fail to obtain and maintain patent or other protection for the proprietary intellectual property we license from them, we could lose our rights to the intellectual property or our exclusivity with respect to those rights, and our competitors could market competing products covered by the intellectual property. Further, in our license agreements we may be responsible for bringing any actions against any third party for infringing the patents we have licensed. If there is any conflict, dispute, disagreement or issue of non-performance between us and our licensing partners regarding our rights or obligations under the license agreements, including any such conflict, dispute or disagreement arising from our failure to satisfy payment obligations under any such agreement, we may owe damages, our licensor may have a right to terminate the affected license, and our ability to utilize the affected intellectual property in our drug discovery and development efforts, and our ability to enter into collaboration or marketing agreements for an affected product candidate, may be adversely affected. For example, disputes may arise regarding intellectual property subject to a licensing agreement, including the scope of rights granted under the license agreement and other interpretation-related issues; the extent to which our technology infringes the intellectual property of the licensor that is not subject to the licensing agreement; the sublicensing of patent and other rights under any collaborative development relationships; our diligence obligations under the license agreement and what activities satisfy those diligence obligations; the inventorship or ownership of inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by our licensors and us and our partners; and the priority of invention of patented technology. If disputes over intellectual property that we have licensed prevent or impair our. 32. ability to maintain our current licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize the affected product candidates.. Confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties may not prevent unauthorized disclosure of proprietary information.. In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we rely on confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that may not be patentable or that we may elect not to patent, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and any other elements of our platform technology and discovery and development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and outside scientific advisors, contractors and collaborators. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our know-how, our employees, consultants, contractors, or outside scientific advisors might intentionally or inadvertently disclose our know-how information to competitors. In addition, competitors may otherwise gain access to our know-how or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques.. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our know-how is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States sometimes are less willing than U.S. courts to protect know-how. Misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of our know-how could impair our competitive position and may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Product Candidates. Our future commercial success depends upon attaining significant market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved, among physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community.. Even if we obtain marketing approval for GEN-009 or any other products that we may develop or acquire in the future, the product may not gain market acceptance among physicians, third-party payors, patients and others in the medical community. In addition, market acceptance of any approved products depends on a number of other factors, including:. • the efficacy and safety of the product, as demonstrated in clinical trials;. • the clinical indications for which the product is approved and the label approved by regulatory authorities for use with the product, including any warnings that may be required on the label;. • acceptance by physicians and patients of the product as a safe and effective treatment and the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe new therapies;. • the cost, safety and efficacy of treatment in relation to alternative treatments;. • the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors and government authorities;. • relative convenience and ease of administration;. • the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects;. • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; and. • the restrictions on the use of our products together with other medications, if any.. Market acceptance is critical to our ability to generate significant revenue. Any product candidate, if approved and commercialized, may be accepted in only limited capacities or not at all. If any approved products are not accepted by the market to the extent that we expect, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and our business would suffer.. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, we may not be successful in commercializing our product candidates if and when they are approved.. 33. We do not have a sales or marketing infrastructure and have no experience in the sale, marketing or distribution of pharmaceutical products. To achieve commercial success for any product for which we have obtained marketing approval, we will need to establish a sales and marketing organization.. In the future, we expect to build a focused sales and marketing infrastructure to market or co-promote some of our product candidates in the United States, if and when they are approved. There are risks involved with establishing our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. For example, recruiting and training a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. If the commercial launch of a product candidate for which we recruit a sales force and establish marketing capabilities is delayed or does not occur for any reason, we would have prematurely or unnecessarily incurred these commercialization expenses. This may be costly, and our investment would be lost if we cannot retain or reposition our sales and marketing personnel.. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products on our own include:. • our inability to recruit, train and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel;. • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to physicians;. • the lack of adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe any future products;. • the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and. • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization.. If we are unable to establish our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, and instead enter into arrangements with third parties to perform these services, our product revenues and our profitability, if any, are likely to be lower than if we were to market, sell and distribute any products that we develop ourselves. In addition, we may not be successful in entering into arrangements with third parties to sell, market and distribute our product candidates or may be unable to do so on terms that are favorable to us. We likely will have little control over such third parties, and any of them may fail to devote the necessary resources and attention to sell and market our products effectively. If we do not establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities successfully, either on our own or in collaboration with third parties, we will not be successful in commercializing our product candidates.. Coverage and reimbursement may be limited or unavailable in certain market segments for our product candidates, which could make it difficult for us to sell our products profitably.. Market acceptance and sales of any approved products will depend significantly on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors and may be affected by existing and future health care reform measures. Third-party payors, such as government health care programs, private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which drugs they will provide coverage for and establish reimbursement levels. Coverage and reimbursement decisions by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor's determination that use of a product is:. • a covered benefit under its health plan;. • safe, effective and medically necessary;. • appropriate for the specific patient;. • cost-effective; and. • neither experimental nor investigational.. Third-party payors, whether foreign or domestic, or governmental or commercial, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling health care costs. Coverage and reimbursement can vary significantly from payor to payor. As a result, obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from each government and other third-party payor will require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor separately, with no assurance that we will be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and. 34. reimbursement. We cannot be sure that coverage or adequate reimbursement will be available for any of our product candidates. Also, we cannot be sure that coverage determinations or reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to commercialize certain of our products. In addition, in the United States, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to whether and how much third-party payors will reimburse patients for their use of newly approved drugs, which in turn will put pressure on the pricing of drugs.. Price controls may be imposed, which may adversely affect our future profitability.. In international markets, reimbursement and health care payment systems vary significantly by country, and many countries have instituted price ceilings on specific products and therapies. In some countries, particularly member states of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after receipt of marketing approval for a product. In addition, there can be considerable pressure by governments and other stakeholders on coverage, prices and reimbursement levels, including as part of cost containment measures. Political, economic and regulatory developments may further complicate pricing negotiations, and pricing negotiations may continue after coverage and reimbursement has been obtained. Reference pricing used by various European Union member states and parallel distribution, or arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced member states, can further reduce prices. In some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial or other studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of our product candidates to other available vaccines in order to obtain or maintain coverage, reimbursement or pricing approval. Publication of discounts by third-party payors or authorities may lead to further pressure on the prices or reimbursement levels within the country of publication and other countries. There can be no assurance that our vaccine candidates will be considered cost-effective by third-party payors, that an adequate level of reimbursement will be available or that the third-party payors' reimbursement policies will not adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be adversely affected.. The impact of  health care reform legislation and other changes in the health care industry and in health care spending on us is currently unknown, and may adversely affect our business model.. In the United States, and in some foreign jurisdictions, the legislative landscape continues to evolve. Our revenue prospects could be affected by changes in health care spending and policy in the United States and abroad. We operate in a highly regulated industry and new laws or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws or decisions, related to health care availability, the method of delivery or payment for health care products and services could negatively impact our business, operations and financial condition. There is significant interest in promoting health care reform, as evidenced by the enactment in the United States of the Healthcare Reform Act, as well as ongoing efforts to eliminate or significantly modify the Healthcare Reform Act. For example, recent tax reform legislation eliminating the tax penalty for individuals who do not maintain sufficient health insurance coverage beginning in 2019 is expected to increase significantly the number of uninsured.   See \"Business-United States Government Regulation-Reimbursement\".  It is likely that federal and state legislatures within the United States as well as foreign governments will continue to consider changes to existing health care legislation.. We cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any changes to the ACA or other federal and state reform efforts within the United States or abroad. There is no assurance that health care reform will not adversely affect our business and financial results, and we cannot predict how future legislative, judicial or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business.. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect:. • the demand for any drug products for which we may obtain regulatory approval;. • our ability to set a price that we believe is fair for our products;. • our ability to obtain coverage and reimbursement approval for a product;. • our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; and. • the level of taxes that we are required to pay.. 35. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before, or more successfully, than we do.. The development and commercialization of new drug products is highly competitive. Our future success depends on our ability to demonstrate and maintain a competitive advantage with respect to the design, development and commercialization of our product candidates. Our objective is to design, develop and commercialize new products with superior efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety. In many cases, the products that we commercialize will compete with existing, market-leading products.. Other companies that are seeking to identify antigens for the development of vaccines and T cell receptor therapies using predictive tools include Neon Therapeutics, Gritstone Oncology, Immatics Biotechnologies GmbH, Aduro, Advaxis, Agenus, Moderna, CureVac and BioNTech.. Many of our potential competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, drug development, technical and human resources than we do. Large pharmaceutical companies, in particular, have extensive experience in clinical testing, including recruiting patients, obtaining regulatory approvals, recruiting patients and in manufacturing pharmaceutical products. In particular, these companies have greater experience and expertise in securing government contracts and grants to support their research and development efforts, conducting testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals to market products, manufacturing such products on a broad scale and marketing approved products. These companies also have significantly greater research and marketing capabilities than we do and may also have products that have been approved or are in late stages of development, and have collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Established pharmaceutical companies may also invest heavily to accelerate discovery and development of novel compounds or to in-license novel compounds that could make the product that we develop obsolete. As a result of all of these factors, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection and/or FDA approval or discovering, developing and commercializing products before we do. In addition, any new product that competes with an approved product must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety in order to overcome price competition and to be commercially successful. If we are not able to compete effectively against potential competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition and operations will suffer.. Our products may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that delay or prevent their regulatory approval or limit their commercial potential.. Undesirable side effects caused by our products or even competing products in development that utilize a common mechanism of action could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities and potential product liability claims. Serious AEs deemed to be caused by our product candidates could have a material AE on the development of our product candidates and our business as a whole. The most common AEs to date in the clinical trial evaluating the safety and tolerability of GEN-003 have been fatigue, myalgia (muscle pain), pain tenderness and induration (inflammatory hardening of the skin). Our understanding of the relationship between GEN-003 and these events, as well as our understanding of AEs in future clinical trials of other product candidates, may change as we gather more information, and additional unexpected AEs may be observed. We have not yet conducted any clinical trials for GEN-009 and therefore do not yet have any information related to whether GEN-009 may cause AEs or serious AEs.. If we or others identify undesirable side effects caused by any of our product candidates either before or after receipt of marketing approval, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. • our clinical trials may be put on hold;. • we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for our vaccine candidates;. • regulatory authorities may withdraw approvals of our vaccines;. • regulatory authorities may require additional warnings on the label;. • a medication guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients may be required;. • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and. • our reputation may suffer.. 36. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of our products and could substantially increase commercialization costs.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness and debt service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, and may make it more difficult for us to fund our operations.. In December 2015, we entered into the First Amendment to the 2014 Term Loan with Hercules. The First Amendment required us to draw an additional $5.0 million and permitted us to draw two additional $5.0 million tranches, which expired unused at December 15, 2016. At December 31, 2017, $14.3 million was outstanding under the amended 2014 Term Loan.. All obligations under our 2014 Term Loan are secured by substantially all of our existing property and assets, excluding our intellectual property and in-licensed technology. This indebtedness may create additional financing risk for us, particularly if our business or prevailing financial market conditions are not conducive to paying off or refinancing our outstanding debt obligations at maturity. This indebtedness could also have important negative consequences, including:. • we will need to repay our indebtedness by making payments of interest and principal, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations, our research and development efforts and other general corporate activities; and. • our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants in our 2014 Term Loan and the First Amendment could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, would accelerate our obligation to repay this indebtedness, and Hercules could seek to enforce its security interest in the assets securing such indebtedness.. To the extent additional debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described above could increase.. We may not have cash available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make interest or principal payments on our indebtedness when due. If we do not make scheduled payments when due, or otherwise materially breach or experience an event of default under our 2014 Term Loan, Hercules could accelerate our total loan obligation or enforce its security interest against us.. Failure to satisfy our current and future debt obligations under our 2014 Term Loan could result in an event of default. In addition, other events, including certain events that are not entirely in our control, such as the occurrence of a material adverse event on our business, could cause an event of default to occur. As a result of the occurrence of an event of default, Hercules could accelerate all of the amounts due. In the event of an acceleration of amounts due under our 2014 Term Loan, we may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to repay our indebtedness. In addition, Hercules could seek to enforce its security interests in the assets securing such indebtedness. If we are unable to pay amounts due to Hercules upon acceleration of the 2014 Term Loan or if Hercules enforces its security interest against our assets securing our indebtedness to Hercules, our ability to continue to operate our business may be jeopardized.. We are subject to certain restrictive covenants which, if breached, could result in the acceleration of our debt under the 2014 Term Loan and have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. Our 2014 Term Loan imposes operating and other restrictions on us. Such restrictions will affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, our ability and the ability of any future subsidiary to, among other things:. • dispose of certain assets;. • change our lines of business;. • engage in mergers or consolidations;. • incur additional indebtedness;. • create liens on assets;. • pay dividends and make distributions or repurchase our capital stock; and. 37. • engage in certain transactions with affiliates.. These restrictive covenants may prevent us from undertaking an action that we feel is in the best interests of our business. In addition, if we were to breach any of these restrictive covenants, Hercules could accelerate our indebtedness under the 2014 Term Loan or enforce its security interest against our assets, either of which would materially adversely affect our ability to continue to operate our business.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. If we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop our products, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates.. We are highly dependent on members of our senior management, including William Clark, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jonathan Poole, our Chief Financial Officer, and Jessica Flechtner, Ph.D., our Chief Scientific Officer. The loss of the services of any of these persons could impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives. We have employment agreements with each of these members of senior management.. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, clinical, manufacturing, sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. The loss of the services of our executive officers or other key employees could impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives and seriously harm our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Furthermore, replacing executive officers and key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to successfully develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these key personnel on acceptable terms as a result of our recent workforce reduction, the status of our clinical development programs and the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. The organizational restructuring we undertook in September 2017 may yield unintended consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce and reduced employee morale, which may cause our remaining employees to seek alternate employment. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain high quality personnel, our ability to pursue our growth strategy will be limited.. We may experience difficulties in managing restructurings.. In September 2017, we undertook an organizational restructuring that reduced our workforce by approximately 40%. Effecting any restructuring places significant strains on management, our employees and our operational, financial and other resources. Furthermore, restructurings involve certain additional costs, including severance and benefits payments to terminated employees, and we may also incur liabilities from early termination or assignment of contracts, potential litigation or other effects from such restructuring. Such effects from our restructuring program could have a material adverse affect on our ability to execute on our business plan. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our restructuring program.. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Our future financial performance and our ability to develop our product candidates, including GEN-009, or additional assets will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth or restructuring, as the case may be.. Our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, commercial partners, and vendors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements and insider trading.. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent or other illegal activity by our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, commercial partners, and vendors. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct that fails: to comply with the laws of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory bodies; provide true, complete and accurate information to the FDA and similar foreign regulatory bodies; to comply with manufacturing standards we have established; to comply with federal, state and foreign health care fraud and abuse laws and regulations; to report. 38. financial information or data accurately; or to disclose unauthorized activities to us. In particular, the promotion, sale and marketing of health care items and services, as well as certain business arrangements in the health care industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent misconduct, including fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and, structuring and commission(s), certain customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Activities subject to these laws also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of patient recruitment for clinical trials. It is not always possible to identify and deter such misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, disgorgement, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal health care programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations.. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully.. As we seek to advance our product candidates through clinical trials and commercialization, we will need to expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various strategic partners, suppliers and other third parties. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to manage our development efforts and clinical trials effectively and hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative and, if necessary, sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing our company.. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates.. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of our product candidates and will face an even greater risk if we commercialize any products. For example, we may be sued if any product we develop allegedly causes injury or is found to be otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability and a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. Even a successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. • decreased demand for any product candidates or products that we may develop;. • injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention;. • withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. • significant costs to defend the related litigations;. • a diversion of management's time and our resources;. • substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients;. • product recalls, withdrawals, or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions;. • loss of revenue;. • the inability to commercialize any product candidates that we may develop; and. • a decline in our stock price.. 39. Failure to obtain and retain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products we develop. We currently carry product liability insurance covering our clinical trials in the amount of $5.0 million in the aggregate. Although we maintain product liability insurance, any claim that may be brought against us could result in a court judgment or settlement in an amount that is not covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance or that is in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. Our insurance policies also have various exclusions, and we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no coverage. We will have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not covered by our insurance, and we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pay such amounts.. We must comply with environmental laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities.. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in certain aspects of our business and are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, distribution, storage, handling, treatment and disposal of these materials. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, manufacture, distribution, storage, handling, treatment or disposal of hazardous materials. In the event of contamination or injury, or failure to comply with environmental, occupational health and safety and export control laws and regulations, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any such liability could exceed our assets and resources. We are uninsured for third-party contamination injury.. We may not be able to win government, academic institution or non-profit contracts or grants.. From time to time, we may apply for contracts or grants from government agencies, non-profit entities and academic institutions. Such grants have been our only source of revenue to date. Such contracts or grants can be highly attractive because they provide capital to fund the ongoing development of our technologies and product candidates without diluting our stockholders. However, there is often significant competition for these contracts or grants. Entities offering contracts or grants may have requirements to apply for or to otherwise be eligible to receive certain contracts or grants that our competitors may be able to satisfy that we cannot. In addition, such entities may make arbitrary decisions as to whether to offer contracts or make grants, to whom the contracts or grants will be awarded and the size of the contracts or grants to each awardee. Even if we are able to satisfy the award requirements, there is no guarantee that we will be a successful awardee. Therefore, we may not be able to win any contracts or grants in a timely manner, if at all.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. We are eligible to be treated as an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (\"JOBS Act\"), and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company\", as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These exemptions include:. • not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting;. • not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board providing for supplemental auditor's reports for additional information about the audit and the financial statements;. • reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and. • exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of these accounting standards until they would otherwise apply to private companies. We. 40. have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, until December 31, 2019, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of any June 30 before that time or if we have total annual gross revenue of $1.07 billion or more during any fiscal year before that time, in which cases we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31 or, if we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during any three-year period before that time, we would cease to be an emerging growth company immediately. Even after we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, we may still qualify as a \"smaller reporting company\" if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates is below $75.0 million as of June 30 in any given year, which would allow us to take advantage of many of the same exemptions from disclosure requirements, including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements.. Our largest stockholder, New Enterprise Associates (\"NEA\"), could exert significant influence over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including any change of control.. Our largest stockholder, NEA, beneficially owns, in the aggregate, shares representing approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock as of February 14, 2018. In addition, one member of our board of directors is associated with NEA. As a result, we expect that NEA will be able to exert significant influence over our business. NEA may have interests that differ from your interests, and it may vote in a way with which you disagree and that may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership of our capital stock may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We cannot predict what the market price of our common stock will be and, as a result, it may be difficult for you to sell your shares of our common stock.. An inactive market may impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of our common stock and may impair our ability to enter into strategic partnerships or acquire companies or products by using our shares of common stock as consideration. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade. It is possible that in one or more future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors and, as a result of these and other factors, the price of our common stock may fall.. If our stock price is volatile, our stockholders could incur substantial losses and we may become involved in securities-related litigation, including securities class action litigation, that could divert management's attention and harm our business and subject us to significant liabilities.. Our stock price is likely to be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, our stockholders could incur substantial losses. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:. • the success of competitive products or technologies;. • results of clinical trials of our product candidates;. • the timing of the release of results of our clinical trials;. • results of clinical trials of our competitors' products;. • regulatory actions or legal developments with respect to our products or our competitors' products;. • developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights;. • the results of our efforts to discover, develop, acquire or in-license additional product candidates or products;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results;. 41. • publication of research reports by securities analysts about us or our competitors or our industry;. • our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts' projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market;. • additions and departures of key personnel;. • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy;. • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry;. • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;. • sales of our common stock by us, our insiders or our other stockholders;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts;. • changes in accounting principles;. • terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of widespread civil unrest;. • natural disasters and other calamities;. • changes in market conditions for biopharmaceutical stocks; and. • changes in general market and economic conditions.. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced significant volatility, particularly with respect to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences company stocks. The volatility of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences company stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. As we operate in a single industry, we are especially vulnerable to these factors to the extent that they affect our industry or our products, or to a lesser extent our markets.. On October 31, 2017, a putative class action complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts (the \"District of Massachusetts\" or the \"Court\"), naming the Company, Chief Executive Officer William D. Clark, and Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Poole as defendants. The complaint alleges violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 in connection with disclosures made in and subsequent to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending March 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on May 5, 2017, and the Company's announcement of a strategic shift to immuno-oncology on September 25, 2017. The plaintiff sought to represent a class of shareholders who purchased or otherwise acquired the Company's securities between May 5, 2017 and September 25, 2017.  The complaint sought unspecified damages and costs.  On November 3, 2017, another purported Company shareholder filed a substantially identical complaint in the District of Massachusetts.  On December 15, 2017, a purported Company shareholder filed a third complaint in the District of Massachusetts, substantially the same as the previous two, but alleging a class period beginning on August 4, 2016 and ending on September 25, 2017.  The District of Massachusetts designated all three complaints as related, and entered an order in each action recognizing that the defendants are not obligated to respond to the initial complaint filed in any of the three actions.  Per the procedures set forth by federal securities laws, applications for appointment of lead plaintiff(s) and lead counsel in the three actions were due to the Court on January 2, 2018.  Three applications for lead plaintiff and lead counsel were submitted to the Court on that date; one of the three movants subsequently withdrew their application.  The Court held a hearing on the two remaining motions for lead plaintiff(s) and lead counsel on January 31, 2018.  The Court consolidated the three actions into one case, under the docket number Civil Action No. 17-cv-12137-PBS, U.S. District Court (Mass.), and took the motions for lead plaintiff(s) and counsel under advisement.  Counsel for both lead plaintiff movants told the Court that they intended to file an amended complaint in the consolidated action, if appointed.  On February 12, 2018, the Court appointed the Genocea Investor Group (a group of five purported shareholders) as lead plaintiff, and appointed Scott+Scott LLP, Levi & Korsinsky LLP, and Block & Leviton as lead counsel.  On February 14, 2018, the parties submitted a stipulation proposing a briefing schedule with the following deadlines: filing of an amended complaint by the lead plaintiffs and counsel due March 29,. 42. 2018; filing of an answer or motion to dismiss by defendants on May 14, 2018; filing of any opposition by plaintiffs to a motion to dismiss on June 28, 2018; and filing of any reply by defendants in support of a motion to dismiss on July 30, 2018.. On January 31, 2018, a putative shareholder derivative action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, naming certain of the Company's officers and directors as defendants, and naming the Company as a nominal defendant.  The complaint alleges violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 14a-9 in connection with disclosures made in the Company's Schedule 14A Proxy Statement, filed with the SEC on April 21, 2017.  The complaint also alleges claims for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, and waste of corporate assets.. These lawsuits and this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.. Failure to comply with The Nasdaq Global Market continued listing requirements may result in our common stock being delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market.. If our stock price falls below $1.00 per share or the market value of our common stock drops below $50 million, we may not continue to qualify for continued listing on The Nasdaq Global Market (\"Nasdaq\"). To maintain listing, we are required, among other things, to maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share and a market value of our common stock of at least $50 million. If either the closing bid price of our common stock is below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days or the market value of our common stock is below $50 million for 30 consecutive business days, we will receive a deficiency notice from Nasdaq advising us that we have a certain period of time, typically 180 days, to regain compliance by maintaining a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 or a minimum market value of our common stock of $50 million for at least ten consecutive business days, as applicable, although Nasdaq could require a longer period. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our common stock and negatively impact the liquidity and price of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely impact our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. Delisting from Nasdaq could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by our current or prospective third-party providers and collaboration partners, the loss of institutional investor interest, and fewer licensing and partnering opportunities.. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements which could require us to restate financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on our stock price.. We cannot assure you that any material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The existence of a material weakness or significant deficiency could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price.. We incur significant costs as a result of being a public company and our management expects to devote substantial time to public company compliance programs.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, insurance, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, our administrative staff are required to perform additional tasks. We invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment could result in increased general and administrative expenses and may divert management's time and attention from product development activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. In the future, it may be more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, and qualified executive officers.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations. In the event that we are not able to demonstrate compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, that our. 43. internal control over financial reporting is perceived as inadequate, or that we are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, investors may lose confidence in our operating results and the price of our ordinary shares could decline. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on Nasdaq.. We are required to comply with certain of the SEC's rules that implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting commencing with our second annual report. This assessment must include the disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by our management or our independent registered public accounting firm. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we engage in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite our efforts, there is a risk that we will not be able to conclude, within the prescribed timeframe or at all, that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. If we identify one or more material weaknesses, it could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statement.. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of us or changes in our management. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Among other things, these provisions:. • authorize \"blank check\" preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock;. • create a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms;. • specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairperson of our board of directors, our chief executive officer or our president;. • prohibit stockholder action by written consent;. • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors;. • provide that our directors may be removed only for cause;. • provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum;. • specify that no stockholder is permitted to cumulate votes at any election of directors;. • expressly authorize our board of directors to modify, alter or repeal our by-laws; and. • require supermajority votes of the holders of our common stock to amend specified provisions of our by-laws.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management.. 44. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner.. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (\"NOLs\"), to offset future taxable income. Our existing NOLs are subject to limitations arising from previous ownership changes, and if we undergo an ownership change in connection any follow-on offerings of our common or preferred stock, our ability to utilize NOLs could be further limited by Section 382 of the Code. Our NOLs may also be impaired under state law. Accordingly, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of our NOLs. Furthermore, our ability to utilize our NOLs is conditioned upon our attaining profitability and generating U.S. federal taxable income. We have incurred net losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future; thus, we do not know whether or when we will generate the U.S. federal taxable income necessary to utilize our NOLs.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the state or federal courts located in the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to limited exceptions, the state and federal courts located in the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (2) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (3) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated by-laws or (4) any other action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be the source of gain for our stockholders.. You should not rely on an investment in our common stock to provide dividend income. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to retain any earnings to maintain and expand our operations. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends is currently prohibited by the terms of our debt financing arrangement, and any future debt financing arrangement may contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. As a result, investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law new legislation that significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  The newly enacted federal income tax law, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses),. 45. limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income in respect of net operating losses generated during or after 2018 and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits.  Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.  In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law.  The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse.  We urge you to consult with your legal and tax advisors with respect to this legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in or holding our common stock.. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate, and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of accrued amounts.. We are currently subject to taxation in the United States and Massachusetts.  In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of such places.  Nevertheless, our effective tax rate may be different than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including passage of the newly enacted federal income tax law, changes in the mix of our profitability from state to state, the results of examinations and audits of our tax filings, our inability to secure or sustain acceptable agreements with tax authorities, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations and may result in tax obligations in excess of amounts accrued in our financial statements."
