[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. Risks Related to our Business. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients' businesses and levels of business activity.. Global macroeconomic conditions affect our clients' businesses and the markets they serve. Volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions in our significant markets have undermined and could in the future undermine business confidence in our significant markets or in other markets, which are increasingly interdependent, and cause our clients to reduce or defer their spending on new initiatives, or may result in clients reducing, delaying or eliminating spending under existing contracts with us, which would negatively affect our business. Growth in the markets we serve could be at a slow rate, or could stagnate or contract, in each case, for an extended period of time. Differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographical regions in which we operate and the industries we serve have affected and may in the future affect demand for our services. A material portion of our revenues and profitability is derived from our clients in North America and Europe. Weak demand or a slower-than-expected recovery in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Ongoing economic volatility and uncertainty and changing demand patterns affect our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to accurately forecast client demand and effectively build our revenue and resource plans. Economic volatility and uncertainty is particularly challenging because it may take some time for the effects and changes in demand patterns resulting from these and other factors to manifest themselves in our business and results of operations. Changing demand patterns from economic volatility and uncertainty could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations.. Our business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for our services and solutions, including through the adaptation and expansion of our services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings, and a significant reduction in such demand or an inability to respond to the evolving technological environment could materially affect our results of operations.. Our revenue and profitability depend on the demand for our services and solutions with favorable margins, which could be negatively affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control and unrelated to our work product. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology and offerings to serve the evolving needs of our clients. Examples of areas of significant change include digital- and cloud-related offerings, which are continually evolving as developments such as AI, automation, Internet of Things and as-a-service solutions are commercialized. Technological developments such as these may materially affect the cost and use of technology by our clients and, in the case of as-a-service solutions, could affect the nature of how we generate revenue. Some of these technologies, such as cloud-based services, AI and automation, and others that may emerge, have reduced and replaced some of our historical services and solutions and may continue to do so in the future. This has caused, and may in the future cause, clients to delay spending under existing contracts and engagements and to delay entering into new contracts while they evaluate new technologies. Such delays can negatively impact our results of operations if the pace and level of spending on new technologies is not sufficient to make up any shortfall.. 16. Developments in the industries we serve, which may be rapid, also could shift demand to new services and solutions. If, as a result of new technologies or changes in the industries we serve, our clients demand new services and solutions, we may be less competitive in these new areas or need to make significant investment to meet that demand. Our growth strategy focuses on responding to these types of developments by driving innovation that will enable us to expand our business into new growth areas. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technology and adapt to industry developments, or evolve and expand our business at sufficient speed and scale, or if we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments and successfully drive innovation, our services and solutions, our results of operations, and our ability to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and to execute on our growth strategy could be negatively affected.. Companies in the industries we serve sometimes seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for the services and solutions we offer, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work if we are not successful in generating new opportunities from the merger or consolidation.. Future legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services.. In the United States, federal and state measures aimed at limiting or restricting offshore outsourcing have been occasionally proposed and enacted.   In addition, public figures in the United States, including the current  President,  members of his administration and other elected officials, continue to suggest that U.S. businesses be subjected to tax or other adverse consequences for outsourcing, with incentives for returning outsourced operations to the United States, although it is not known what specific measures might be proposed or how they would be implemented and enforced, or whether emerging or enacted tax reform or other near-term Congressional action will affect companies' outsourcing practices.  There can be no assurance that pending or future legislation or executive action in the United States that would significantly adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition will not be enacted.. Legislation enacted in certain European jurisdictions and any future legislation in Europe, Japan or any other country in which we have clients restricting the performance of business process services from an offshore location or imposing burdens on companies that outsource data processing functions could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, evolving EU cloud computing standards and regulations and proposed taxes on outsourced data center activities or new EU and Japanese regulations on international transfers of personal data may limit or restrict our operations, or make them more costly. Moreover, legislation enacted in the United Kingdom and by many EU countries, provides that if a company outsources all or part of its business to a service provider or changes its current service provider, the affected employees of the company or of the previous service provider are entitled to become employees of the new service provider, generally on the same terms and conditions as their original employment. In addition, dismissals of employees who were employed by the company or the previous service provider immediately prior to that outsourcing, if the dismissals resulted solely or principally from the outsourcing, are automatically considered unfair dismissals that entitle such employees to compensation. As a result, in order to avoid unfair dismissal claims we may have to offer, and become liable for, voluntary redundancy payments to the employees of our clients in the United Kingdom and other EU countries who have adopted similar laws who transfer business to us.. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations of these laws and regulations could harm our business.. We are subject to, or subject to contractual requirements to comply with or facilitate our clients' compliance with, numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters such as anticorruption, import/export controls, trade restrictions, taxation, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, wage-and-hour. 17. standards, and employment and labor relations. Our clients' business operations are also subject to numerous regulations, and our clients may require that we perform our services in compliance with regulations applicable to them or in a manner that will enable them to comply with such regulations.. The global nature of our operations increases the difficulty of compliance. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us and/or our employees, prohibitions on doing business, breach of contract damages and harm to our reputation. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws may not be well developed or provide sufficiently clear guidance and may be insufficient to protect our rights.. In particular, our collection, use, disclosure, and retention of personal health-related and other information is subject to an array of privacy, data security, and data breach notification laws and regulations that change frequently, are inconsistent across the jurisdictions in which we do business, and impose significant compliance costs. Changes in these laws and regulations and inconsistencies in the standards that apply to our business in different jurisdictions may impose significant compliance costs, reduce the efficiency of our operations, and expose us to enforcement risks. In the EU, a new, comprehensive General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\") will supersede EU member states' national protection laws and will add privacy and data security compliance obligations and increase penalties for noncompliance, effective in May 2018. In particular, the GDPR will introduce numerous privacy-related changes for companies operating in the EU, including greater control for data subjects, increased data portability for EU consumers, data breach notification requirements and increased fines, with potential fines for violations of certain provisions of GDPR reaching as high as 4% of a company's annual total revenue and potentially including the revenue of a company's international affiliates.  Additionally, foreign governments outside of the EU are also taking steps to fortify their data privacy laws and regulations.  As privacy laws and regulations around the world continue to evolve, these changes could adversely affect our business operations, websites and mobile applications that are accessed by residents in the applicable countries.  For example, there are evolving laws and regulations in India protecting the use of personal information that could impact our engagements with clients, vendors and employees in India.. In addition, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand, common practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption laws or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. Our employees, subcontractors, agents, joint venture partners, the companies we acquire and their employees, subcontractors and agents, and other third parties with which we associate, could take actions that violate policies or procedures designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance or applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of these third parties could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions (whether or not we participated or knew about the actions leading to the violations), including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our reputation.. We could be liable to our clients or others for damages, subject to criminal liability, and our reputation could be damaged, if our information systems are breached or confidential or sensitive client or employee data is compromised.. We are often required to collect, process and store proprietary, personally identifying or other sensitive or confidential client data in the operation of our business or in connection with the services we provide under our contracts, including, for example, names, address, social security numbers, personal health information, credit card account numbers, payment history records, and checking and savings account numbers. In addition, we collect and store data regarding our employees and contractors. As a result, we are subject to numerous data protection and privacy laws and regulations designed to protect this information in the countries in which we operate as well as the countries of residence of the persons whose data we process. If any person, including any of our current or former employees or contractors, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our or our clients' established controls with respect to. 18. sensitive data or if we do not adapt to changes in data protection legislation, we could be subject to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions.. In addition, the products, services and software that we provide to our clients may contain or introduce cybersecurity threats or vulnerabilities to our clients' information technology networks, intentionally or unintentionally.  Our clients may maintain their own proprietary, sensitive, or confidential information that could be compromised in a cybersecurity attack, or their systems may be disabled or disrupted as a result of such an attack.  Our clients, regulators, or other third-parties may attempt to hold us liable, through contractual indemnification clauses or directly, for any such losses or damages resulting from such an attack.. The threat of incursion into our information systems and technology infrastructure has increased and evolved in recent years with the increasing number and sophistication of third parties who have hacked, attacked, disrupted or otherwise invaded information systems of other companies and have misappropriated or disclosed data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently or may be designed to remain dormant until a predetermined event and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and our reputation could be harmed and we could lose existing or potential customers. Our clients, suppliers, subcontractors, and other third parties with whom we do business, including in particular cloud service providers, generally face similar cybersecurity threats, and in some cases we must rely on the safeguards adopted by these parties. We may also be liable to our clients or others for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information or system failures. Many of our contracts do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. We may also be subject to civil actions and criminal prosecution by governments or government agencies for breaches relating to such data. Our insurance coverage or indemnification protections for breaches or mismanagement of such data may not be adequate to cover all costs related to data loss, cybersecurity attacks, or disruptions resulting from such events, or they may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claims. The impact of these cybersecurity attacks, data losses, and other security breaches cannot be predicted, but any such attack, loss or breach could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our clients, suppliers, subcontractors, or other third parties.   Incidents of this type could require significant management attention and resources, could result in the loss of business, regulatory enforcement and financial liability, and could harm our reputation among our clients and the public, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operation, or liquidity.. Tax matters may have an adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions, notably in India where we have substantial operations. Our provision for income taxes, actual tax expense and cash tax liability could be adversely affected by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, lower income before taxes generated in countries with lower tax rates; higher income generated in countries with higher tax rates; changes in tax laws and regulations or in applicable income tax treaties; changes in accounting principles or interpretations thereof or in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; the possible disappearance or expiration of certain tax concessions that we have enjoyed in prior years; and adverse outcomes of tax examinations and pending tax-related litigation. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition.. We are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and tax authorities around the world, notably in India where we have substantial operations, and there can be no assurance that negative outcomes from those examinations or any appeals therefrom will not adversely affect our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. For example, the Government of India is appealing a 2011 ruling by the Delhi High Court that Genpact India Private Limited (one of our. 19. subsidiaries) cannot be held to be a representative assessee of GE in connection with an assertion that GE has a \"permanent establishment\" in India by reason of a 2004 transfer of shares of our predecessor company. We believe that, if the Government of India is successful in its appeal, GE would be obligated to indemnify us for any resulting tax, though there can be no assurance as to the outcome of this matter.. In addition, the Government of India issued assessment orders to us in 2014, 2015 and 2016 seeking to assess tax on certain transactions that occurred in 2009, 2010 and 2013. We do not believe that the transactions should be subject to tax in India under applicable law, including due to the relief provided under the Mauritius-India treaty, and have accordingly filed appeals.  Our appeal in respect of tax year 2010 has been resolved in our favor. We have received demands for potential tax claims resulting from assessments related to tax years 2009 and 2013 in an aggregate amount of $168 million, including interest. To date, we have paid a total of $25 million toward these demands to the Indian tax authority under protest, and may be required to pay the remainder of the demands pending resolution of the matter. There is no assurance that we will prevail in this matter or similar transactions, including where we have relied on the Mauritius-India treaty, and a final determination of tax in the amounts claimed could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. More generally, the Indian tax authorities may claim that Indian tax is owed with respect to certain of our transactions, such as our acquisitions (including our subsidiaries organized under Indian law or owning assets located in India), internal reorganizations and the sale of our shares in public offerings or otherwise by our existing significant shareholders, in which indirect transfers of Indian subsidiaries or assets are involved. Those authorities may seek to impose tax on us directly or as a withholding agent or representative assessee of the seller in these or other transactions.. Furthermore, there is growing pressure in many jurisdictions, including the United States, and from multinational organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the EU to amend existing international tax rules in order to render them more responsive to current global business practices. For example, the OECD has published a package of measures for reform of the international tax rules as a product of its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) initiative, which was endorsed by the G20 finance ministers. Many of the initiatives in the BEPS package will require amendments to the domestic tax legislation of various jurisdictions. Separately, the EU is asserting that a number of country-specific favorable tax regimes and rulings in certain member states may violate, or have violated, EU law, and may require rebates of some or all of the associated tax benefits to be paid by benefitted taxpayers in particular cases.. In addition, in December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was passed by the U.S. Congress and signed into law by President Trump, bringing about far-ranging changes to the existing corporate tax system. This legislation establishes a territorial-style system for taxing foreign-source income of multinational corporations and, among other items and with varying effective dates, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, an additional minimum tax measured in part by \"base erosion payments\" involving certain members of affiliated groups, significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, the modification of constructive ownership rules used to determine the status of certain non-U.S. companies as \"controlled foreign corporations,\" and changes to the rules governing taxable and tax-free cross-border transfers of intangible property. Many of the provisions in this legislation are unclear or incomplete in their application, with significant guidance required from the U.S. tax authorities that has not yet been provided.  Although we are unable at this time to determine the overall impact that this legislation will have on our effective tax rate or business practices and operations, our tax liability may materially increase as a result of this legislation. Other legislative and regulatory proposals may also affect our tax position or our business practices and operations, depending on whether and in what form they may ultimately take effect.  See Item 1A - \"Risk Factors - Risks Related to our Business - Future legislation or executive action in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services.\". Although we monitor these developments, it is very difficult to assess to what extent recent changes and other proposals, if enacted, may be implemented in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we conduct our business or may impact the way in which we conduct our business or our effective tax rate due to their unpredictability and interdependency. As these and other tax laws and related regulations and practices change, those changes could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition.. 20. If the transfer pricing arrangements we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate, our tax liability may increase.. We have transfer pricing arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, financing, marketing, sales and delivery functions. U.S. and Indian transfer pricing regulations, as well as regulations applicable in other countries in which we operate, require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arm's-length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be substantially on arm's-length terms. If, however, a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of our tax returns and determines that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, or that other income of our affiliates should be taxed in that jurisdiction, we may incur increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase, possibly materially, thereby reducing our profitability and cash flows, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition.. GE accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and any material loss of business from, or change in our relationship with, GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from GE. In 2015, 2016 and 2017, GE accounted for 18.7%, 13.9% and 9.8% of our revenues, respectively. As a result of GE's divestment of a significant portion of its GE Capital business, our services for GE have declined and we expect that our services for GE will continue to decline if GE pursues further divestitures. We intend to continue to make efforts to procure contracts with respect to the divested businesses; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to procure any such contracts or that such contracts would be on favorable terms. Under our current master services agreement, or MSA, with GE, effective January 1, 2017, GE is not obligated to provide us with any exclusivity or opportunity to work on GE projects and GE is not required to purchase a minimum amount of services from us.  In addition, GE has the right to terminate the MSA or any statement of work in whole or in part for any reason by providing us 30 days' notice. As a result of the foregoing, we expect that our revenues from GE will be more volatile in the future and that this volatility could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  See Item 7 - \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview - Revenues\" for further information regarding our MSA with GE.. We expect that our business with GE will continue to come from a variety of GE's businesses and that, in general, GE's decisions to use our services will continue to be made by a number of people within GE. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, we expect that the total level of business we receive will continue to depend on the decisions of the various operating managers of such businesses. Finally, there can be no assurance that GE will not establish its own business unit to provide English-language business process services from low-wage countries or otherwise compete with us.  Any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients located in the United States and Europe, as well as on clients that operate in certain industries. If events or conditions occur which adversely affect the economic health of the United States or Europe, demand in the United States or Europe or in certain industries for the type of services we provide, or the rate of growth in the industries in which our clients operate, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. In 2017, more than 65% of our revenues were derived from clients based in North America and more than 1o% of our revenues were derived from clients based in Europe. Additionally, in 2017, more than 40% of our revenues were derived from clients in the financial services industry, which includes insurance.. A number of factors could adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States or Europe, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the. 21. European Union in a national referendum, or the Brexit Referendum. The Brexit Referendum has created political and economic uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union and as to whether any other European countries may similarly seek to exit the European Union. We have operations in the United Kingdom and a number of countries in the EU and our global operations serve clients with operations in these regions, and as a result our business, financial condition and results of operations may be impacted by such uncertainty.. Furthermore, any deterioration in economic activity in the United States or Europe could adversely affect demand for our services, thus reducing our revenue. Increased regulation, changes in existing regulation or increased government intervention in the industries in which our clients operate may adversely affect growth in such industries and therefore have an adverse impact on our revenues.. We may face difficulties in providing end-to-end business solutions or delivering complex and large projects for our clients that could cause clients to discontinue their work with us, which in turn could harm our business.. We continue to expand the nature and scope of our engagements, including by incorporating digital solutions that use social, mobility, big data and cloud-based technologies. Our ability to effectively offer a wide range of business solutions depends on our ability to attract existing or new clients to new service offerings, and the market for our solutions is highly competitive. We cannot be certain that our new service offerings, particularly our digital offerings, will effectively meet client needs or that we will be able to attract clients to these service offerings. The complexity of our new service offerings, our inexperience in developing or implementing them, and significant competition in the markets for these services may affect our ability to market these services successfully. In addition, the breadth of our existing service offerings continues to result in larger and more complex projects with our clients, which have risks associated with their scope and complexities. Our failure to deliver services that meet the requirements specified by our clients could result in termination of client contracts, and we could be liable to our clients for significant penalties or damages. Larger projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays may result from factors that have little or nothing to do with the quality of our services, such as the business or financial condition of our clients or the economy generally. Such cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements and inaccuracies in such resource planning and allocation may have a negative impact on our profitability.. Our partnerships, alliances and relationships with third-party suppliers and   contractors and other third parties with whom we do business expose us to a variety of risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our partnerships and alliances and our relationships with a variety of third parties, including suppliers, contractors and others, expose us to a variety of risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, and we may not be successful in mitigating such risks. Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities and quality of products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet commitments for the delivery of our own services.  In addition, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our services, including with respect to any third-party components to our services.  Any performance failure on the part of our partners or the third parties with whom we do business could delay our performance of client deliverables, which could deprive us of potential revenue.  Additionally, our partners, third-party suppliers and contractors and other third parties with whom we do business may not be able to comply with current good business practices or applicable laws or regulatory requirements. Our failure, or the failure of such third parties, to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business.. 22. We may have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our partners and third parties with whom we do business dedicate to their arrangements with us. Our ability to generate revenues from these arrangements will depend on our partners' or other third parties' desire and ability to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements.  Further, certain of our suppliers, partners and other contractors may decide to discontinue conducting business with us.. In addition, we are a party to a number of license agreements with third parties and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect that future licenses will impose, various obligations and restrictions on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations and restrictions, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we might not be able to market any product or service that is covered by these agreements, which could materially adversely affect our business. Termination of these license agreements or reduction or elimination of our licensed rights may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated licenses with less favorable terms, or cause us to lose rights in important intellectual property or technology.. Any of the foregoing may prevent us from working with our partners or third parties with whom we do business and could subject us to losses, affect our ability to bring products and services to market, cause us to fail to satisfy our client obligations and harm our reputation.. We may fail to attract and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations.. Our industry relies on large numbers of skilled employees and our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. Historically, high employee attrition has been common in our industry. See Item 1 - \"Business - Our People.\" In 2017, our attrition rate for all employees who were employed for a day or more was approximately 26%. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reduce our level of attrition or even maintain our attrition rate at the 2017 level. If our attrition rate increases, our operating efficiency and productivity may decrease.. Competition for qualified employees, particularly in India and China, remains high and we expect such competition to continue. We compete for employees not only with other companies in our industry but also with companies in other industries, such as software services, engineering services and financial services companies. In many locations in which we operate, there is a limited pool of employees who have the skills and training needed to do our work. If our business continues to grow, the number of people we will need to hire will increase. We will also need to increase our hiring if we are not able to maintain our attrition rate through innovative recruiting and retention policies. Significant competition for employees could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and service our clients, as well as cause us to incur greater personnel expenses and training costs.. Wage increases in the countries in which we have operations may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margin.. Salaries and related benefits of our employees are our most significant costs. Most of our employees are based in India and other countries in which wage levels have historically been significantly lower than wage levels in the United States and Western Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage levels for comparably skilled employees in most of the countries in which we operate have increased and further increases are expected at a faster rate than in the United States and Western Europe because of, among other reasons, faster economic growth, increased competition for skilled employees and increased demand for business process services. We will lose this competitive advantage to the extent that we are not able to control or share wage increases with our clients. Sharing wage increases may cause our clients to be less willing to utilize our services. In addition, wage increases may reduce our margins. We will attempt to control such costs by our efforts to add capacity in locations where we consider wage levels of skilled personnel to be satisfactory, but we may not be successful in doing so. We may need to increase our wage levels significantly and rapidly in order to attract the quantity and quality of employees that are necessary for us to remain competitive, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have also increased, and expect to further increase, the number of employees we have in the United States from the levels than we have had historically, and this could have a negative effect on our profit margin.. 23. Currency exchange rate fluctuations in various currencies in which we do business, especially the Indian rupee, the euro and the U.S. dollar, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, with the remaining amounts largely in euros, UK pounds sterling, the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen and the Indian rupee. Most of our expenses are incurred and paid in Indian rupees, with the remaining amounts largely in U.S. dollars, Chinese renminbi, Romanian lei, euros, UK pounds sterling, Philippine pesos, Japanese yen, Polish zloty, Mexican pesos, Guatemalan quetzals and the South African rand. As we expand our operations to new countries, we will incur expenses in other currencies. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates between the Indian rupee, the euro and other currencies in which we incur costs or receive revenues, on the one hand, and the U.S. dollar, on the other hand, have changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. See Item 7A - \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.\". Our results of operations could be adversely affected over time by certain movements in exchange rates, particularly if the Indian rupee or other currencies in which we incur expenses appreciate against the U.S. dollar or if the currencies in which we receive revenues, such as the euro, depreciate against the U.S. dollar. Although we take steps to hedge a substantial portion of our Indian rupee-U.S. dollar, Mexican peso-U.S. dollar, Philippines peso-U.S. dollar, euro-U.S. dollar, euro- Romanian leu, pound sterling-U.S. dollar, Australian dollar-U.S. dollar and our Chinese renminbi-Japanese yen foreign currency exposures, there is no assurance that our hedging strategy will be successful or that the hedging markets will have sufficient liquidity or depth for us to implement our strategy in a cost effective manner. In addition, in some countries such as India and China, we are subject to legal restrictions on hedging activities, as well as convertibility of currencies, which could limit our ability to use cash generated in one country in another country and could limit our ability to hedge our exposures. Finally, our hedging policies only provide near term protection from exchange rate fluctuations. If the Indian rupee or other currencies in which we incur expenses appreciate against the U.S. dollar, we may have to consider additional means of maintaining profitability, including by increasing pricing, which may or may not be achievable. See also Item 7 - \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview - Foreign exchange gains (losses), net.\". Restrictions on entry visas may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Our business depends on the ability of our employees to obtain the necessary visas and entry permits to do business in the countries where our clients and, in some cases, our delivery centers, are located. In recent years, in response to terrorist attacks, global unrest and political rhetoric, immigration authorities generally, and those in the United States in particular, have increased the level of scrutiny in granting visas. If further terrorist attacks occur, global unrest intensifies, or political rhetoric continues, then obtaining visas for our personnel may become even more difficult. Local immigration laws may also require us to meet certain other legal requirements as a condition to obtaining or maintaining entry visas. Countries where our clients may be located, including the United States, may through legislation or regulation restrict the number of visas or entry permits available.  In general, immigration laws are subject to legislative change and varying standards of application and enforcement due to political forces, economic conditions, terrorist attacks or other events.  In addition, there is currently uncertainty with respect to immigration laws and standards in the United States due to legislation introduced in Congress and policy changes  suggested and adopted by the current U.S. President and members of his administration.  Current U.S. efforts to reduce the number of first-time and renewal H-1B and H-4 visas could result in fewer employees eligible to work for us in the United States under those programs, as could executive actions that prohibit citizens of designated countries from emigrating to and/or working in the United States.  It is not currently known what, if any, other such visa restrictions might be proposed or how they would be implemented or enforced.. Our senior leadership team is critical to our continued success and the loss of such personnel could harm our business.. 24. Our future success substantially depends on the continued service and performance of the members of our senior leadership team. These personnel possess business and technical capabilities that are difficult to replace. In particular, our Chief Executive Officer and other members of our senior leadership team have been involved in our business since its commencement under GE. Our employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer does not obligate him to work for us for any specified period. If we lose key members of our senior leadership team, we may not be able to effectively manage our current operations or meet ongoing and future business challenges, and this may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be unable to service our debt or obtain additional financing on competitive terms.. On June 30, 2015, we entered into a five-year credit agreement with certain financial institutions as lenders which replaced our prior credit facility. The credit agreement provides for an $800 million term credit facility and a $350 million revolving credit facility, and may be increased by us by up to $150 million (or a greater amount based on certain conditions). The credit agreement obligations are unsecured, and guaranteed by certain subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2017, the total amount due under the credit facility, including the amount utilized under the revolving facility, was $870 million.  The credit agreement contains covenants that require maintenance of certain financial ratios, including consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, and also, under certain conditions, restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, create liens, make certain investments, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments, repurchase common shares, undertake certain liquidations, mergers, consolidations and acquisitions and dispose of certain assets or subsidiaries, among other things. If we breach any of these restrictions and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, subject to applicable cure periods the outstanding indebtedness (and any other indebtedness with cross-default provisions) could be declared immediately due and payable, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, we may have limited ability to increase our borrowings under our existing credit agreement without increased pricing.. On March 27, 2017, we issued $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.70% senior notes in a private offering.  As of December 31, 2017, the amount outstanding under the notes, net of debt amortization expense of $2.2 million, was $347.8 million, which is payable on April 1, 2022 when the notes mature.  We are required to pay interest on the notes semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year, ending on the maturity date. The notes are subject to certain customary covenants, including limitations on our ability to incur debt secured by liens, engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions and consolidate, merge, convey or transfer our assets. Upon certain change of control transactions, we would be required to make an offer to repurchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  The interest rate payable on the notes is subject to adjustment if the credit rating of the notes is downgraded up to a maximum increase of 2.0%. We are required to offer to exchange the notes for registered notes or have one or more shelf registration statements declared effective within 455 days after the issue date of the notes and, if such exchange offer fails to be consummated or such registration statement fails to be effective by June 25, 2018, then the interest payable on the notes would increase by 0.25% per annum during the 90-day period immediately following such date and would further increase by 0.25% per annum at the end of each subsequent 90-day period up to a maximum increase of 0.50%.  We may redeem the notes at any time in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes redeemed, together with accrued and unpaid interest or, if the notes are redeemed prior to March 1, 2022, a specified \"make-whole\" premium. The notes are our senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all our other senior unsecured indebtedness outstanding from time to time.. Our indebtedness and related debt service obligations can have negative consequences, requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes such as acquisitions and capital investment; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to undertake strategic acquisitions; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, including by reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. We may incur. 25. more debt in the future, and there can be no assurance that our cost of funding will not substantially increase.. We often face a long selling cycle to secure a new contract as well as long implementation periods that require significant resource commitments, which result in a long lead time before we receive revenues from new relationships.. We often face a long selling cycle to secure a new contract. If we are successful in obtaining an engagement, that is generally followed by a long implementation period in which the services are planned in detail and we demonstrate to a client that we can successfully integrate our processes and resources with their operations. During this time a contract is also negotiated and agreed. There is then a long ramping up period in order to commence providing the services. We typically incur significant business development expenses during the selling cycle. We may not succeed in winning a new client's business, in which case we receive no revenues and may receive no reimbursement for such expenses. Even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new client and begin to plan the services in detail, a potential client may choose a competitor or decide to retain the work in-house prior to the time a final contract is signed. If we enter into a contract with a client, we will typically receive no revenues until implementation actually begins. Our clients may also experience delays in obtaining internal approvals or delays associated with technology or system implementations, thereby further lengthening the implementation cycle. We generally hire new employees to provide services to a new client once a contract is signed. We may face significant difficulties in hiring such employees and incur significant costs associated with these hires before we receive corresponding revenues. If we are not successful in obtaining contractual commitments after the selling cycle, in maintaining contractual commitments after the implementation cycle or in maintaining or reducing the duration of unprofitable initial periods in our contracts, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to price appropriately, maintain asset utilization levels and control our costs.. Our profitability is largely a function of the efficiency with which we utilize our assets, and in particular our people and delivery centers, and the pricing that we are able to obtain for our services. Our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new assignments, hire and assimilate new employees, forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforce and manage attrition, and our need to devote time and resources to training, professional development and other typically non-chargeable activities. The prices we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including our clients' perceptions of our ability to add value through our services, competition, introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors, our ability to accurately estimate, attain and sustain revenues from client engagements, margins and cash flows over increasingly longer contract periods and general economic and political conditions. Therefore, if we are unable to price appropriately or manage our asset utilization levels, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability is also a function of our ability to control our costs and improve our efficiency. As we increase the number of our employees and grow our business, we may not be able to manage the significantly larger and more geographically diverse workforce that may result and our profitability may not improve. New taxes may also be imposed on our services such as sales taxes or service taxes which could affect our competitiveness as well as our profitability.. Our results of operations and share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls.. The accuracy of our financial reporting is dependent on the effectiveness of our internal controls. We are required to provide a report from management to our shareholders on our internal control over financial reporting that includes an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls. Internal control over financial reporting has inherent limitations, including human error, sample-based testing, the possibility that controls could be circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions, and fraud.. 26. Because of these inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting might not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. If we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or implement required new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we could suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, be unable to properly report on our business and our results of operations, or be required to restate our financial statements, and our results of operations, the market price of our common shares and our ability to obtain new business could be materially adversely affected.. We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our financial results.. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The application of generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that affect our reported financial condition, and our accompanying disclosure with respect to, among other things, revenue recognition and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience, contractual commitments and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made. These estimates and assumptions involve the use of judgment and are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If our estimates, or the assumptions underlying such estimates, are not correct, actual results may differ materially from our estimates, and we may need to, among other things, adjust revenues or accrue additional charges that could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our operating results may experience significant fluctuations.. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. The long selling cycle for many of our services as well as the time required to complete the implementation phases of new contracts makes it difficult to accurately predict the timing of revenues from new clients or new SOWs as well as our costs. In addition, our future revenues, operating margins and profitability may fluctuate as a result of: lower demand for our services; lower win rates versus our competition; changes in pricing in response to client demands and competitive pressures; changes to the financial condition of our clients; employee wage levels and utilization rates; changes in foreign exchange rates, including the Indian rupee versus the U.S. dollar and the euro versus the U.S. dollar; the timing of collection of accounts receivable; enactment of new taxes; changes in domestic and international income tax rates and regulations; and changes to levels and types of share-based compensation awards and assumptions used to determine the fair value of such awards. As a result of these factors, it is possible that in some future periods, our revenues and operating results may be significantly below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such an event, the price of our common shares would likely be materially and adversely affected.. We enter into long-term contracts and fixed price contracts with our clients. Our failure to price these contracts correctly may negatively affect our profitability.. The pricing of our services is usually included in SOWs entered into with our clients, many of which are for terms of two to five years. In certain cases, we have committed to pricing over this period with only limited sharing of risk regarding inflation and currency exchange rates. In addition, we are obligated under some of our contracts to deliver productivity benefits to our clients. If we fail to estimate accurately future wage inflation rates, currency exchange rates or our costs, or if we fail to accurately estimate the productivity benefits we can achieve under a contract, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A portion of our SOWs are currently billed on a fixed price basis rather than on a time and materials basis. We may increase the number of fixed price contracts we perform in the future. Any failure to accurately estimate the resources or time required to complete a fixed price engagement or to maintain the required quality levels or any unexpected increase in the cost to us of employees, office space or technology could expose us to risks associated with cost overruns and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions.. 27. We may be subject to claims for substantial damages by our clients arising out of disruptions to their businesses or inadequate service, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate.. Most of our service contracts with clients contain service level and performance requirements, including requirements relating to the quality of our services. Failure to consistently meet service requirements of a client or errors made by our employees in the course of delivering services to our clients could disrupt the client's business and result in a reduction in revenues or a claim for damages against us. Additionally, we could incur liability if a process we manage for a client were to result in internal control failures or impair our client's ability to comply with its own internal control requirements.. Under our MSAs with our clients, our liability for breach of our obligations is generally limited to actual damages suffered by the client and is typically capped at the greater of an agreed amount or the fees paid or payable to us under the relevant agreement. These limitations and caps on liability may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients or liability for breaches of confidentiality, are generally not limited under those agreements. Our MSAs are governed by laws of multiple jurisdictions, therefore the interpretation of such provisions, and the availability of defenses to us, may vary, which may contribute to the uncertainty as to the scope of our potential liability. Although we have commercial general liability insurance coverage, the coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claims. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements), could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. We have established allowances for losses of receivables and unbilled services. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate, and, as a result, we might need to adjust our allowances. We might not accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, including bankruptcy and insolvency. Additionally, cyberattacks on any of our clients could disrupt their internal systems and capability to make payments. The occurrence of such events could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. If we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected.. Some of our contracts contain provisions which, if triggered, could result in lower future revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition.. Some of our contracts allow a client, in certain limited circumstances, to request a benchmark study comparing our pricing and performance with that of an agreed list of other service providers for comparable services. Based on the results of the study and depending on the reasons for any unfavorable variance, we may be required to make improvements in the services we provide or to reduce the pricing for services on a prospective basis to be performed under the remaining term of the contract, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Some of our contracts contain provisions that would require us to pay penalties to our clients and/or provide our clients with the right to terminate the contract if we do not meet pre-agreed service level requirements. Failure to meet these requirements could result in the payment of significant penalties by us to our clients which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 28. A few of our MSAs provide that during the term of the MSA and under specified circumstances, we may not provide similar services to the competitors of our client. Some of our contracts also provide that, during the term of the contract and for a certain period thereafter ranging from six to 12 months, we may not provide similar services to certain or any of our client's competitors using the same personnel. These restrictions may hamper our ability to compete for and provide services to other clients in the same industry, which may inhibit growth and result in lower future revenues and profitability.. Some of our contracts with clients specify that if a change of control of our company occurs during the term of the contract, the client has the right to terminate the contract. These provisions may result in our contracts being terminated if there is such a change in control, resulting in a potential loss of revenues. In addition, these provisions may act as a deterrent to any attempt by a third party to acquire our company.. Some of our contracts with clients require that we bear the cost of any sales or withholding taxes or unreimbursed value-added taxes imposed on payments made under those contracts. While the imposition of these taxes is generally minimized under our contracts, changes in law or the interpretation thereof and changes in our internal structure may result in the imposition of these taxes and a reduction in our net revenues.. Our industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively.. Our industry is highly competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets are breadth and depth of process, technology and domain expertise, service quality, the ability to attract, train and retain qualified people, compliance rigor, global delivery capabilities, price and marketing and sales capabilities. We compete for business with a variety of companies, including large multinational firms that provide consulting, technology and/or business process services, off-shore business process service providers in low-cost locations like India, in-house captives of potential clients, software services companies that also provide business process services and accounting firms that also provide consulting or outsourcing services.. Some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing, technological or other resources and larger client bases than we do, and may expand their service offerings and compete more effectively for clients and employees than we do. Some of our competitors have more established reputations and client relationships in our markets than we do. In addition, some of our competitors who do not have global delivery capabilities may expand their delivery centers to the countries in which we are located which could result in increased competition for employees and could reduce our competitive advantage. There could also be new competitors that are more powerful as a result of strategic consolidation of smaller competitors or of companies that each provide different services or service different industries.. Increased competition may result in lower prices and volumes, higher costs for resources, especially people, and lower profitability. We may not be able to supply clients with services that they deem superior and at competitive prices and we may lose business to our competitors. Any inability to compete effectively would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we do not protect our intellectual property or if our services are found to infringe on the intellectual property of others.. Our success depends in part on certain methodologies, practices, tools and technical expertise we utilize in designing, developing, implementing and maintaining applications and other proprietary intellectual property rights. In order to protect our rights in these various intellectual properties, we rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements as well as patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws. We also generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, clients and potential clients and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. India is a member of the Berne Convention, an international intellectual property treaty, and has agreed to recognize protections on intellectual property rights conferred under the laws of other foreign countries, including the laws of the United States. There can be no assurance that the laws, rules, regulations and treaties in effect in the United States, India and the other jurisdictions in which we operate and the contractual and other protective measures we take, are adequate to protect us. 29. from misappropriation or unauthorized use of our intellectual property, or that such laws will not change. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights, and any such steps may not be successful. Infringement by others of our intellectual property, including the costs of enforcing our intellectual property rights, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Although we believe that we are not infringing on the intellectual property rights of others, claims may nonetheless be successfully asserted against us in the future. The costs of defending any such claims could be significant, and any successful claim may require us to modify, discontinue or rename any of our services. Any such changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A substantial portion of our assets and operations are located in India and we are subject to regulatory, economic, social and political uncertainties in India.. We are subject to several risks associated with having a substantial portion of our assets and operations located in India.. We have benefited from many policies of the Government of India and the Indian state governments in the states in which we operate which are designed to promote foreign investment generally and the business process services industry in particular, including significant fiscal incentives, relaxation of regulatory restrictions, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation. There is no assurance that such policies will continue. Various factors, such as changes in the central or state governments, could trigger significant changes in India's economic liberalization and deregulation policies and disrupt business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular.. In addition, our financial performance and the market price of our common shares may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy in India, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies, as well as social stability and political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future. In particular, India has experienced significant economic growth over the last several years, but faces major challenges in sustaining that growth in the years ahead. These challenges include the need for substantial infrastructure development and improving access to healthcare and education. Recent economic reform efforts have been disruptive and may increase the level of economic uncertainty in India. Our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, develop and operate our delivery centers, and attract and retain clients could be adversely affected if India does not successfully meet these challenges.. Our delivery centers are at risk of damage from natural disasters and other disruptions.. Our delivery centers and our data and voice communications may be damaged or disrupted as a result of natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, heavy rains, epidemics, tsunamis and cyclones, technical disruptions such as electricity or infrastructure breakdowns, including damage to telecommunications cables, computer glitches and electronic viruses or human-caused events such as protests, riots and labor unrest. Such events may lead to the disruption of information systems and telecommunication services for sustained periods. They also may make it difficult or impossible for employees to reach our business locations. Damage or destruction that interrupts our provision of services could adversely affect our reputation, our relationships with our clients, our leadership team's ability to administer and supervise our business or it may cause us to incur substantial additional expenditure to repair or replace damaged equipment or delivery centers. We may also be liable to our clients for disruption in service resulting from such damage or destruction. While we currently have commercial liability insurance, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient. Furthermore, we may be unable to secure such insurance coverage at premiums acceptable to us in the future or at all. Prolonged disruption of our services would also entitle our clients to terminate their contracts with us. Any of the above factors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 30. We may face difficulties as we expand our operations into countries in which we have no prior operating experience.. We intend to continue to expand our global footprint in order to maintain an appropriate cost structure and meet our clients' delivery needs. This may involve expanding into countries other than those in which we currently operate. It may involve expanding into less developed countries, which may have less political, social or economic stability and less developed infrastructure and legal systems. As we expand our business into new countries we may encounter regulatory, personnel, technological and other difficulties that increase our expenses or delay our ability to start up our operations or become profitable in such countries. This may affect our relationships with our clients and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence involving any of the countries in which we or our clients have operations could adversely affect our operations and client confidence.. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect worldwide financial markets and could potentially lead to economic recession, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. These events could adversely affect our clients' levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. These events also pose significant risks to our people and to our delivery centers and operations around the world.. Southern Asia has, from time to time, experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including India and Pakistan. In recent years, military confrontations between India and Pakistan have occurred in the region of Kashmir and along the India/Pakistan border. There have also been incidents in and near India such as terrorist attacks on the Indian Parliament and in the city of Mumbai, troop mobilizations along the India/Pakistan border and an aggravated geopolitical situation in the region. Such military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could influence the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult. Resulting political tensions could create a greater perception that investments in companies with Indian operations involve a high degree of risk, and that there is a risk of disruption of services provided by companies with Indian operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our share price and/or the market for our services. Furthermore, if India were to become engaged in armed hostilities, particularly hostilities that were protracted or involved the threat or use of nuclear weapons, we might not be able to continue our operations. We generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, military conflicts and wars.. If more stringent labor laws become applicable to us or if our employees unionize, our profitability may be adversely affected.. India has stringent labor legislation that protects employee interests, including legislation that sets forth detailed procedures for dispute resolution and employee removal and legislation that imposes financial obligations on employers upon retrenchment. Though we are exempt from some of these labor laws at present under exceptions in some states for providers of IT-enabled services, there can be no assurance that such laws will not become applicable to us in the future. If these labor laws become applicable to our employees, it may become difficult for us to maintain flexible human resource policies and attract and employ the numbers of sufficiently qualified candidates that we need or discharge employees, and our compensation expenses may increase significantly.. In addition, our employees may in the future form unions. If employees at any of our delivery centers become eligible for union membership, we may be required to raise wage levels or grant other benefits that could result in an increase in our compensation expenses, in which case our profitability may be adversely affected.. 31. We may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks.. As part of our business strategy, we regularly review potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. Through the acquisitions we pursue, we may seek opportunities to add to or enhance the services we provide, to enter new industries or expand our client base, or to strengthen our global presence and scale of operations. We have completed numerous acquisitions since our inception. There can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates in the future for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to accomplish our strategy, or be successful in entering into agreements for desired transactions.. Acquisitions, including completed acquisitions, also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose clients or employees or could under-perform relative to expectations. We could also experience financial or other setbacks if transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to execution, integration or unknown liabilities. Although we conduct due diligence in connection with our acquisitions, there could be liabilities that we fail to discover, that we inadequately assess or that are not properly disclosed to us.  Any material liabilities associated with our acquisitions could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. There can be no assurance that the seller will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us.. Our principal shareholders exercise significant influence over us, and their interests in our business may be different from yours.. A significant percentage of our issued and outstanding common shares are currently beneficially owned by affiliates of Bain Capital. As of December 31, 2017, Bain Capital (through its affiliates) beneficially owned approximately 21% of our outstanding common shares. Our shareholder agreement with Bain Capital and its co-investors provides that Bain Capital has the right to designate for nomination four directors to our board, so long as it maintains certain minimum shareholding thresholds, and the shareholders party to the agreement have agreed to vote their shares for the election of such persons. The number of directors that Bain Capital is entitled to designate for nomination is reduced if its ownership of our common shares declines below certain levels and such right ceases if such ownership falls below 7.5% of our outstanding common shares, and also may be increased in certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2017, given the size of its shareholding, the number of directors that Bain Capital is entitled to designate for nomination pursuant to our shareholder agreement is three.. These shareholders can exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs and all matters requiring a shareholders' vote, including the composition of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bye-laws, the approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets, our dividend policy and our capital structure and financing. This concentration of ownership also may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these shareholders, even if such transactions are beneficial to other shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with your interests. Bain Capital currently holds interests in companies that compete with us and it may, from to time, make significant investments in companies that could compete with us. In addition, pursuant to our shareholder agreement and to the extent permitted by applicable law, our directors who are affiliated with Bain Capital are not required to present to us corporate opportunities (e.g., acquisitions or new potential clients) of which they become aware. So long as Bain Capital owns a significant amount of our equity it will be able to strongly influence our decisions.. We may become subject to taxation as a result of our incorporation in Bermuda or place of management, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have received a written assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance under The Exempted Undertaking Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda to the effect that if there is enacted in Bermuda any. 32. legislation imposing tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax shall not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or common shares, debentures or other obligations or securities until March 31, 2035, except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or is payable by us in respect of real property owned or leased by us in Bermuda. We cannot assure you that after such date we would not be subject to any such tax. If we were to become subject to taxation in Bermuda or any other jurisdiction as a result of our incorporation in Bermuda, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to realize the entire book value of goodwill and other intangible assets from acquisitions.. As of December 31, 2017, we have $1,337.1 million of goodwill and $131.6 million of intangible assets. We periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired and we monitor for impairment of goodwill relating to all acquisitions and our formation in 2004. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least on an annual basis as of December 31 of each year, based on a number of factors including macro-economic conditions, industry and market considerations, overall financial performance, business plans and expected future cash flows. Impairment testing of goodwill may also be performed between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of goodwill below its carrying amount. We perform an assessment of qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Based on the results of the qualitative assessment, the Company performs the quantitative assessment of goodwill impairment if it determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If the book value of our goodwill and other intangible assets is impaired, any such impairment would be charged to earnings in the period of impairment. We cannot assure you that future impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 33. Risks Related to our Shares. Future sales of our common shares could cause our share price to decline.. Sales of substantial amounts of common shares by our employees and other shareholders, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the price of our common shares and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of December 31, 2017, Bain Capital (through its affiliates) and its co-investors beneficially owned approximately 25% of our outstanding common shares. Subject to certain restrictions set forth in our shareholder agreement with Bain Capital and its co-investors, such shareholders are able to sell their common shares in the public market from time to time without registering them, subject to certain limitations on the timing, amount and method of those sales imposed by Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.. Pursuant to our shareholder agreement, Bain Capital has the right, subject to certain conditions and with certain exceptions, to require us to file registration statements covering all of the common shares it owns or to include those common shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or for another holder of our common shares. Following their registration and sale under the applicable registration statement, those shares will become freely tradable. By exercising their registration rights and selling a large number of common shares, these holders could cause the price of our common shares to decline. In addition, the perception in the public markets that sales by them might occur could also adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare and pay dividends on our common shares, and future determinations to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors.. Prior to 2017 we did not declare regular dividends. In February 2017, we announced the declaration of the first quarterly cash dividend on our common shares in the amount of $0.06 per common share.  In February 2018, we announced an increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.075 per common share, representing a planned annual dividend of $0.30 per share. Any determination to pay dividends to holders of our common shares in the future, including future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, general business conditions, statutory requirements under Bermuda law and any other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Our ability to pay dividends will also continue to be subject to restrictive covenants contained in credit facility agreements governing indebtedness we and our subsidiaries have incurred or may incur in the future. In addition, statutory requirements under Bermuda law could require us to defer making a dividend payment on a declared dividend date until such time as we can meet statutory requirements under Bermuda law. A reduction in, delay of, or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our share price.. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda, and Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders.. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a state of the United States. As a Bermuda company, we are governed by, in particular, the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda as amended, or the Companies Act. The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations, takeovers and indemnification of directors.. 34. Generally, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda company are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies generally do not have the right to take action against directors or officers of the company except in limited circumstances. Directors of a Bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company, exercising the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. Directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or arrangement with the company or any of its subsidiaries. If a director of a Bermuda company is found to have breached his or her duties to that company, he may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. A director may be liable jointly and severally with other directors if it is shown that the director knowingly engaged in fraud or dishonesty (with such unlimited liability as the courts shall direct). In cases not involving fraud or dishonesty, the liability of the director will be determined by the Supreme Court of Bermuda or other Bermuda court (with such liability as the Bermuda court thinks just) who may take into account the percentage of responsibility of the director for the matter in question, in light of the nature of the conduct of the director and the extent of the causal relationship between his or her conduct and the loss suffered.. In addition, our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving or arising out of any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director or to matters which would render it void pursuant to the Companies Act. This waiver limits the rights of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. Therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a state within the United States.. The market price for our common shares has been and may continue to be volatile.. The market price for our common shares has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:.   actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results;.    changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts;.    changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies engaged in providing business process and information technology services;.    loss of one or more significant clients;.   addition or loss of executive officers or key employees;.    regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our clients or our competitors;.    announcements of technological developments;.   limited liquidity in our trading market;.    sales or expected sales of additional common shares or purchases or expected purchases of common shares, including by the Company under existing or future share repurchase programs, which purchases are at the discretion of our board of directors and may not continue in the future; and.    terrorist attacks or natural disasters or other such events impacting countries where we or our clients have operations.. In addition, securities markets generally and from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares.. 35. You may be unable to effect service of process or enforce judgments obtained in the United States or Bermuda against us or our assets in the jurisdictions in which we or our executive officers operate.. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda, and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Bermuda or in countries, other than the United States, where we have assets based on the civil liability or penal provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability or penal provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised by Appleby (Bermuda) Limited, our Bermuda counsel, that the United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on United States federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. Similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in countries, other than the United States, where we have assets."
