[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. Some statements in this report, as well as in other materials we file with the SEC or otherwise release to the public and in materials that we make available on our website, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Senior officers may also make verbal statements to analysts, investors, the media and others that are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements may relate, for example, to future operations, including the anticipated synergies and benefits of any acquisitions, as well as prospects, strategies, financial condition, economic performance (including growth and earnings), industry conditions and demand for our products and services. The Company cautions that its forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and while we believe that our expectations for the future are reasonable in view of currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events may differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed below.. Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements except as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our subsequent Forms 10-Q, 8-K and other reports to the SEC.. Set forth below are the material risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially and adversely affect our business or could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements in this report and in the other public statements we make. Please be aware that these risks may change over time and other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our securities.. We may not be able to successfully implement our business initiatives in each of our four business segments to grow our sales and earnings, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 9. Index to Financial Statements. We have implemented numerous initiatives in each of our four business segments to grow sales and earnings, including the introduction of new and expanded product lines, strategic acquisitions, geographic expansion (including through acquisitions), sales to new markets, enhanced customer marketing programs and a variety of gross margin and cost savings initiatives. If we are unable to implement these initiatives efficiently and effectively, or if these initiatives are unsuccessful, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Successful implementation of these initiatives also depends on factors specific to the automotive parts industry and the other industries in which we operate and numerous other factors that may be beyond our control. In addition to the other risk factors contained in this \"Item 1A. Risk Factors\", adverse changes in the following factors could undermine our business initiatives and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows:. • the competitive environment in our end markets may force us to reduce prices below our desired pricing level or to increase promotional spending;. • our ability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and to meet customers' needs for our products in a timely manner;. • our ability to successfully enter new markets, including by successfully identifying and acquiring suitable acquisition targets in these new markets;. • our ability to effectively manage our costs;. • our ability to continue to grow through acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses in our existing operations;. • our ability to identify and successfully implement appropriate technological, digital and e-commerce solutions;. • the occurrence of unusually severe weather events, which can disrupt our operations (forcing temporary closure of retail and distribution centers, prohibiting shipment of inventory and products) and negatively impact our results in the affected geographies; and. • the economy in general.. Our business will be adversely affected if demand for our products slows.. Our business depends on customer demand for the products that we distribute. Demand for these products depends on many factors.. With respect to our automotive group, the primary factors are:. • the number of miles vehicles are driven annually, as higher vehicle mileage increases the need for maintenance and repair;. • the number of vehicles in the automotive fleet, a function of new vehicle sales and vehicle scrappage rates, as a steady or growing total vehicle population supports the continued demand for maintenance and repair;. • the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle manufacturers and the length of the warranty or maintenance offered on new vehicles;. • the number of vehicles in current service that are six years old and older, as these vehicles are typically no longer under the original vehicle manufacturers' warranty and will need more maintenance and repair than newer vehicles;. • the addition of electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles, and autonomously driven vehicles and future legislation related thereto;. • gas prices, as increases in gas prices may deter consumers from using their vehicles;. • changes in travel patterns, which may cause consumers to rely more on other transportation;. • restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair information imposed by the original vehicle manufacturers or by governmental regulation, as consumers may be forced to have all diagnostic work, repairs and maintenance performed by the vehicle manufacturers' dealer networks; and. • the economy generally, which in declining conditions may cause consumers to defer vehicle maintenance and repair and defer discretionary spending.. With respect to our industrial parts group, the primary factors are:. • the level of industrial production and manufacturing capacity utilization, as these indices reflect the need for industrial replacement parts;. 10. Index to Financial Statements. • changes in manufacturing reflected in the level of the Institute for Supply Management's Purchasing Managers Index, as an index reading of 50 or more implies an expanding manufacturing economy, while a reading below 50 implies a contracting manufacturing economy;. • the consolidation of certain of our manufacturing customers and the trend of manufacturing operations being moved overseas, which subsequently reduces demand for our products;. • changes in legislation or government regulations or policies which could impact international trade among our multi-national customer base and cause reduced demand for our products; and. • the economy in general, which in declining conditions may cause reduced demand for industrial output.. With respect to our business products group, the primary factors are:. • the increasing digitization of the workplace, as this negatively impacts the need for certain office products;. • the level of unemployment, especially as it relates to white collar and service jobs, as high unemployment reduces the need for office products;. • the level of office vacancy rates, as high vacancy rates reduces the need for office products;. • consolidation of customers and consolidation of the industry; and. • the economy in general, which in declining conditions may cause reduced demand for business products consumption.. With respect to our electrical/electronic materials group, the primary factors are:. • changes in manufacturing reflected in the level of the Institute for Supply Management's Purchasing Managers Index, as an index reading of 50 or more implies an expanding manufacturing economy, while a reading below 50 implies a contracting manufacturing economy; and. • the economy in general, which in declining conditions may cause reduced demand for industrial output.. Changes in legislation or government regulations or policies could have a significant impact on our results of operations.. Certain political developments, including the results of the presidential election in the U.S. and the decision of the United Kingdom to exit the European Union, have resulted in increased economic uncertainty for multi-national companies. These developments may result in economic and trade policy actions that could impact economic conditions in many countries and change the landscape of international trade. Our business is global, so changes to existing international trade agreements, blocking of foreign trade or imposition of tariffs on foreign goods could result in decreased revenues and/or increases in pricing, either of which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in future periods. In addition, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The Act, which reduces the U.S. corporate tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. It resulted in the Company writing down our deferred tax assets in 2017 and recording a payable for the estimated transition tax on foreign sourced earnings. These amounts were provisional and could be adjusted in 2018 as calculations are finalized and the full effects of the Act are reflected on our business and financial results.. Uncertainty and/or deterioration in general macro-economic conditions, including unemployment, inflation or deflation, changes in tax policies, changes in energy costs, uncertain credit markets, or other economic conditions, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our business and operating results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by uncertain global economic conditions, including domestic outputs, employment rates, inflation or deflation, changes in tax policies, instability in credit markets, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, interest rates, volatile exchange rates, and other challenges that could affect the global economy. Both our commercial and retail customers may experience deterioration of their financial resources, which could result in existing or potential customers delaying or canceling plans to purchase our products. Our vendors could experience similar conditions, which could impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. Future weakness in the global economy could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in future periods.. We face substantial competition in the industries in which we do business.. The sale of automotive and industrial parts, business products and electrical materials is highly competitive and impacted by many factors, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, changing customer preferences, store location, and pricing pressures. Because we seek to offer competitive prices, if our competitors reduce their prices, we may be. 11. Index to Financial Statements. forced to reduce our prices, which could result in a material decline in our revenues and earnings. Increased competition among distributors of automotive and industrial parts, office products and electronic materials, including increased availability among digital and e-commerce providers across the markets in which we do business, could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Company anticipates no decline in competition in any of its four business segments in the foreseeable future.. In particular, the market for replacement automotive parts is highly competitive and subjects us to a wide variety of competitors. We compete primarily with national and regional auto parts chains, independently owned regional and local automotive parts and accessories stores, automobile dealers that supply manufacturer replacement parts and accessories, mass merchandisers, internet providers and wholesale clubs that sell automotive products and regional and local full service automotive repair shops, both new and established.. Furthermore, both the automotive aftermarket and the office supply industries continue to experience consolidation. Consolidation among our competitors could further enhance their financial position, provide them with the ability to provide more competitive prices to customers for whom we compete, and allow them to achieve increased efficiencies in their consolidated operations that enable them to more effectively compete for customers. If we are unable to continue to develop successful competitive strategies or if our competitors develop more effective strategies, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline.. In addition, the loss of a major customer in the business products group could significantly impact its results of operations.. We depend on our relationships with our vendors, and a disruption of our vendor relationships or a disruption in our vendors' operations could harm our business.. As a distributor of automotive parts, industrial parts, business products and electrical/electronic materials, our business depends on developing and maintaining close and productive relationships with our vendors. We depend on our vendors to sell us quality products at favorable prices. Many factors outside our control, including, without limitation, raw material shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity, labor disputes, transportation disruptions, tax and legislative uncertainties or weather conditions, could adversely affect our vendors' ability to deliver to us quality merchandise at favorable prices in a timely manner.. Furthermore, financial or operational difficulties with a particular vendor could cause that vendor to increase the cost of the products or decrease the quality of the products we purchase from it. Vendor consolidation could also limit the number of suppliers from which we may purchase products and could materially affect the prices we pay for these products. In addition, we would suffer an adverse impact if our vendors limit or cancel the return privileges that currently protect us from inventory obsolescence.. We recognize the growing demand for business-to-business and business-to-customer digital and e-commerce options and solutions, and we could lose business if we fail to provide the digital and  e-commerce options and solutions our customers wish to use.. Our success in digital and e-commerce depends on our ability to accurately identify the products to make available through digital and e-commerce platforms across our business segments, and to establish and maintain such platforms to provide the highest level of data security to our customers on and through the platforms our customers wish to use (including mobile) with rapidly changing technology in a highly competitive environment.. If we experience a security breach, if our internal information systems fail to function properly or if we are unsuccessful in implementing, integrating or upgrading our information systems, our business operations could be materially affected.. We depend on information systems to process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections, purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost effective operations, provide superior service to customers and accumulate financial results. Despite our implementation of security measures, our IT systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized physical or electronic access, power outages, computer system or network failures, cyber-attacks and other similar disruptions. Maintaining and operating these measures requires continuous investments, which the Company has made and will continue to make. A security breach could result in sensitive data being lost, manipulated or exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public.. A serious prolonged disruption of our information systems for any of the above reasons could materially impair fundamental business processes and increase expenses, decrease sales or otherwise reduce earnings. Furthermore, such a breach may harm our reputation and business prospects and subject us to legal claims if there is loss, disclosure or misappropriation of or access to our customers' information. As threats related to cyber security breaches develop and grow, we may also find it necessary to make further investments to protect our data and infrastructure.. 12. Index to Financial Statements. Because we are involved in litigation from time to time and are subject to numerous laws and governmental regulations, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees and other costs.. We are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees or other third parties for various reasons. The damages sought against us in some of these litigation proceedings are substantial. Although we maintain liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Additionally, we are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations relating to taxes, environmental protection, product quality standards, building and zoning requirements, as well as employment law matters. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions, while incurring substantial legal fees and costs. In addition, our capital expenses could increase due to remediation measures that may be required if we are found to be noncompliant with any existing or future laws or regulations.. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel could harm our business.. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. We believe our management team's depth and breadth of experience in our industry is integral to executing our business plan. We also will need to continue to attract, motivate and retain other key personnel. The loss of services of members of our senior management team or other key employees, the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed or failure to plan for the succession of senior management and key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our increased debt levels could adversely affect our cash flow and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations.. We have an unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured senior notes, which could have important consequences to our financial health. For example, our level of indebtedness could, among other things:. •make it more difficult to satisfy our financial obligations, including those relating to the senior unsecured notes and our credit facility;. •increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;. •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in our industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage;. •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to service the principal and interest on the debt, reducing the funds available for other business purposes, such as working capital, capital expenditures or other cash requirements;. •limit our ability to incur additional debt with acceptable terms; and. •expose us to fluctuations in interest rates.. In addition, the terms of our financing obligations include restrictions, such as affirmative, negative and financial covenants, conditions on borrowing and subsidiary guarantees. A failure to comply with these restrictions could result in a default under our financing obligations or could require us to obtain waivers from our lenders for failure to comply with these restrictions. The occurrence of a default that remains uncured or the inability to secure a necessary consent or waiver could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows."
