[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should carefully consider these risk factors described below before you decide to invest in our securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical changes and international operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations and our liquidity.  The risks described below could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements we have made in this Report, the information incorporated herein by reference and those forward-looking statements we may make from time to time.. Risks Relating to our Business and Strategy. We have substantial indebtedness outstanding and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our indebtedness exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $16.7 million in outstanding 12% Convertible Senior Notes, due 2020, which were issued to WB Gevo, Ltd. (\"Whitebox\") in June 2017 (the \"2020 Notes\"). In addition, we and any current and future subsidiaries of ours may incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the specified limitations in our existing financing documents and the indenture governing the 2020 Notes. If new debt is added to our or any of our subsidiaries' debt levels, the risks described in this \"Certain Risks Related to Owning Our Securities\" section could intensify.. Our current and future indebtedness could have significant negative consequences for our business, results of operations and financial condition, including:. <U+25CF>  increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;. <U+25CF>  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing;. <U+25CF>  requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes;. <U+25CF>  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; and. <U+25CF>  placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources.. We cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain sufficient cash reserves or that our business will generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or that our cash needs will not increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our existing indebtedness or any other indebtedness which we may incur in the future, we would be in default, which could permit the holders of our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes, to accelerate the maturity of such indebtedness. Any default under such indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In particular, our indebtedness with Whitebox is secured by liens on substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations under such instruments, Whitebox could foreclose on our assets, including our intellectual property. Any such foreclosure could force us to substantially curtail or cease our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain further financing.. Our audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, were prepared under the assumption that we would continue our operations as a going concern.  Our independent registered public accounting firm for the year ended December 31, 2017 included a \"going concern\" emphasis of matter paragraph in its report on our financial statements as of, and for the year ended, December 31, 2017, indicating that the amount of working capital at December 31, 2017 was not sufficient to meet the cash requirements to fund planned operations  through the period that is one year after the date our 2017 financial statements are issued without additional sources of cash, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Uncertainty concerning our ability to continue as a going concern may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. Continued operations and our ability to continue as a going concern are dependent on our ability to obtain additional funding in the near future and thereafter, and there are no assurances that such funding will be available to us at all or will be available in sufficient amounts or on reasonable terms.. 18. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Based on our current operating plan, existing working capital at December 31, 2017 was not sufficient to meet the cash requirements to fund planned operations through the period that is one year after the date our 2017 financial statements are issued unless we are able to restructure and extend our debt obligations and/or raise additional capital to fund operations. Without additional funds from private and/or public offerings of debt or equity securities, sales of assets, sales of our licenses of intellectual property or technologies, or other transactions, we will exhaust our resources and will be unable to continue operations. If we cannot continue as a viable entity, our stockholders would likely lose most or all of their investment in us.. We have a history of net losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability.. We have incurred net losses of $24.6 million, $37.2 million, and $36.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $401.4 million. We expect to incur losses and negative cash flows from operating activities for the foreseeable future. We currently derive revenue primarily from the sale of isobutanol, ethanol and related products at the Luverne Facility, although over certain periods of time, we may and have operated the plant for the sole production of ethanol and related products to maximize cash flows.. Additionally, we have generated limited revenue from the sale of products such as ATJ, isooctane and isooctene produced from isobutanol that has been used for commercial flights with Alaska Airlines, jet engine qualification and flight demonstration by the U.S. Air Force and other branches of the U.S. military, as well as specialty gasoline applications such as racing fuel.  We have also generated revenue through grants and cooperative agreements.  If we are unable to obtain new grants, cooperative agreements or product supply contracts, our revenues could be adversely affected.. Furthermore, we expect to spend significant amounts on the further development and commercial implementation of our technology. We also expect to spend significant amounts acquiring and deploying additional equipment to attain final product specifications that may be required by future customers, acquiring or otherwise gaining access to additional ethanol plants and Retrofitting them for isobutanol production, on marketing, general and administrative expenses associated with our planned growth, on management of operations as a public company, and on debt service obligations. In addition, the cost of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights and defending ourselves against claims by others that we may be violating their intellectual property rights may be significant.. In particular, over time, costs related to defending the validity of our issued patents and challenging the validity of the patents of others at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (\"USPTO\") may be significant. As a result, even if our revenues increase substantially, we expect that our expenses will exceed revenues for the foreseeable future. We do not expect to achieve profitability during the foreseeable future, and may never achieve it. If we fail to achieve profitability, or if the time required to achieve profitability is longer than we anticipate, we may not be able to continue our business. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.. We will require substantial additional financing to achieve our goals, and a failure to obtain this capital when needed or on acceptable terms could force us to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our development and commercialization efforts.. Significant portions of our resources have been dedicated to research and development, as well as demonstrating the effectiveness of our technology through the Retrofit of the Luverne Facility. We believe that we will continue to expend substantial resources for the foreseeable future on further developing our technologies, developing future markets for our isobutanol and accessing and Retrofitting facilities necessary for the production of isobutanol on a commercial scale. These expenditures may include costs associated with research and development, accessing existing ethanol plants, Retrofitting or otherwise modifying the plants to produce isobutanol, obtaining government and regulatory approvals, acquiring or constructing storage facilities and negotiating supply agreements for the isobutanol we produce. In addition, other unanticipated costs may arise. Because the costs of developing our technology at a commercial scale are highly uncertain, we cannot reasonably estimate the amounts necessary to successfully commercialize our production.. To date, we have funded our operations primarily through equity offerings, issuances of debt, borrowing under our secured debt financing arrangements and revenues earned primarily from the sale of ethanol. Based on our current plans and expectations, we will require additional funding to achieve our goals. In addition, the cost of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights and defending against claims by others that we may be violating their intellectual property rights may be significant. Moreover, our plans and expectations may change as a result of factors currently unknown to us, and we may need additional funds sooner than planned and may seek to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in the near future. We may also choose to seek additional capital sooner than required due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations.. 19. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. <U+25CF>  the timing of, and costs involved in developing and optimizing our technologies for full-scale commercial production of isobutanol;. <U+25CF>  the timing of, and costs involved in accessing existing ethanol plants;. <U+25CF>  the timing of, and costs involved in Retrofitting the plants we access with our technologies;. <U+25CF>  the costs involved in establishing enhanced yeast seed trains, including at the Luverne Facility;. <U+25CF>  the costs involved in acquiring and deploying additional equipment to attain final product specifications including at the Luverne Facility, that may be required by future customers;. <U+25CF>  the costs involved in increasing our isobutanol production capacity, including at the Luverne Facility;. <U+25CF>  the cost and timing to expand the Luverne Facility into our first commercial hydrocarbons facility;. <U+25CF>  the cost of operating, maintaining and increasing production capacity of the Retrofitted plants;. <U+25CF>  our ability to negotiate agreements supplying suitable biomass to our plants, and the timing and terms of those agreements;. <U+25CF>  the timing of, and the costs involved in developing adequate storage facilities for the isobutanol we produce;. <U+25CF>  our ability to gain market acceptance for isobutanol as a specialty chemical, gasoline blendstock and as a raw material for the production of hydrocarbons;. <U+25CF>  our ability to negotiate supply agreements for the isobutanol we produce, and the timing and terms of those agreements, including terms related to sales price;. <U+25CF>  our ability to negotiate sales of our isobutanol for full-scale production of butenes and other industrially useful chemicals and fuels, and the timing and terms of those sales, including terms related to sales price;. <U+25CF>  our ability to sell the iDGs\231 left as a co-product of fermenting isobutanol from corn as animal feedstock;. <U+25CF>  our ability to establish and maintain strategic partnerships, licensing or other arrangements and the timing and terms of those arrangements; and. <U+25CF>  the cost of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent, trademark and other intellectual property claims, including litigation costs and the outcome of such litigation.. Additional funds may not be available when we need them, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, our ability to raise additional funds will be subject to certain limitations in the agreements governing our indebtedness, including the 2020 Notes. If needed funds are not available to us on a timely basis, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate:. <U+25CF>  our research and development activities;. <U+25CF>  our plans to access and/or Retrofit existing ethanol facilities;. <U+25CF>  our production of isobutanol at Retrofitted plants, including at the Luverne Facility;. <U+25CF>  any plans to further expand production of isobutanol or other products at the Luverne Facility;. <U+25CF>  our production of hydrocarbons at the demonstration plant located at the South Hampton facility near Houston, TX, or any other future facilities;. <U+25CF>  our efforts to prepare, file, prosecute, maintain and enforce patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights and defend against claims by others that we may be violating their intellectual property rights; and/or. <U+25CF>  our activities in developing storage capacity and negotiating supply agreements that may be necessary for the commercialization of our isobutanol production.. We may need to cease production at the Luverne Facility due to the condition of two of our fermentation vessels.. As an older production facility, the Luverne Facility is more susceptible to maintenance issues that result in production challenges than newer production facilities.  In the second quarter of 2017, we hired a third-party engineering firm to test the structural integrity of two of our oldest fermentation vessels.  These fermentation vessels are fabricated from carbon steel and are dedicated to ethanol production. Currently it is estimated that these two fermentation vessels likely have approximately two years and three months, respectively, of useful life remaining under the current operating strategy unless they are replaced or repaired. It is possible that the condition of the two affected fermentation vessels could force us to cease isobutanol production or to completely cease all production. 20. activities at the Luverne Facility for an extended period of time.  Any such production stoppages or costs incurred to repair or replace such vessels could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to successfully negotiate final, binding terms related to our current non-binding isobutanol, ATJ and other hydrocarbon supply and distribution agreements, which could harm our commercial prospects.. From time-to-time, we agree to preliminary terms regarding supplying isobutanol or the products derived from it to various companies for their use or further distribution. We may be unable to negotiate final terms with these or other companies in a timely manner, or at all, and there is no guarantee that the terms of any final agreement will be the same or similar to those currently contemplated in our preliminary agreements. Final terms may include less favorable pricing structures or volume commitments, more expensive delivery or purity requirements, reduced contract durations and other adverse changes. Delays in negotiating final contracts could slow our initial isobutanol commercialization, and failure to agree to definitive terms for sales of sufficient volumes of isobutanol could prevent us from growing our business. To the extent that terms in our initial supply and distribution contracts may influence negotiations regarding future contracts, the failure to negotiate favorable final terms related to our current preliminary agreements could have an especially negative impact on our growth and profitability. Additionally, we have not demonstrated that we can meet the production levels contemplated in our current non-binding supply agreements. If our production scale-up proceeds more slowly than we expect, or if we encounter difficulties in successfully completing plant Retrofits, potential customers, including those with whom we have current letters of intent, may be less willing to negotiate definitive supply agreements, or demand terms less favorable to us, and our performance may suffer.. Our Retrofit of the Luverne Facility is our first commercial Retrofit and, as a result, our full-scale commercial production of isobutanol at the Luverne Facility could be delayed or we could experience significant cost overruns in comparison to our current estimates.. In September 2010, we acquired ownership of the Luverne Facility in Luverne, Minnesota. To date, we have successfully demonstrated fermentation operations at commercial scale combined with the use of our GIFT\231separation system using corn mash feedstock at the Luverne Facility. We may incur additional costs in order to further optimize the production of isobutanol, or both isobutanol and ethanol simultaneously, at the Luverne Facility.  We may determine that it is necessary to incur additional costs to further optimize the Luverne Facility or to increase production of isobutanol or other products at the Luverne Facility, but the funds necessary may not be available when we need them, on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. In addition, our ability to raise additional funds will be subject to certain limitations in the agreements governing our indebtedness, including the 2020 Notes. If additional funding is not available to us, or not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to optimize the isobutanol production technology currently in place at the Luverne Facility and achieve full-scale commercial production at this facility may be limited. Such a result could reduce the scope of our business plan and have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. The Luverne Facility is our first commercial isobutanol production facility, and, as such, we may be unable to produce planned quantities of isobutanol and any such production may be more costly than we anticipate.. Since commencing initial startup operations for the production of isobutanol at the Luverne Facility in May 2012, we have encountered some production challenges, including contamination issues, which have resulted in lower than planned isobutanol production.  While we have resumed production of isobutanol at the Luverne Facility, this is our first commercial isobutanol production facility and we may encounter further production challenges, including, but not limited to, being unable to manage plant contamination, and we may add additional processing steps or incur additional capital expenditures to achieve our target customers' product specifications and/or to increase production levels at the facility. In addition, the Luverne Facility was constructed in 1998.  As an older production facility, the Luverne Facility may be more susceptible to maintenance issues that result in production challenges than newer production facilities.  Any such production challenges may delay our ramp up of production capacity, prevent us from producing significant quantities of isobutanol, significantly increase our cost to produce isobutanol, or cause us to switch to producing ethanol or produce both products simultaneously, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Some of our Retrofits, including the Retrofit of the Luverne Facility, may include additional equipment that we believe will allow us to switch between ethanol and isobutanol production, or produce both products simultaneously, but we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in switching between isobutanol and ethanol production, or producing both products simultaneously, in a timely or efficient manner at these facilities.. In July 2014, we began more consistent co-production of isobutanol and ethanol at our Luverne Facility with one fermenter utilized for isobutanol production and three fermenters utilized for ethanol production.  We believe that the capability to switch between ethanol and isobutanol production, or produce both products simultaneously (as evidenced by our Luverne Facility) will, subject to regulatory factors and depending on market conditions, mitigate certain significant risks associated with startup operations for isobutanol production, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to revert to ethanol production, or produce both products. 21. simultaneously at future plants, or that it will make sense, based on the then-current economic conditions for the production of ethanol, to do so. Even if we are able to revert to ethanol production, or produce both products simultaneously at certain facilities, those facilities may produce ethanol less efficiently or in lower volumes than they did prior to the Retrofit and such ethanol production may not generate positive economic returns. If we are unable to produce isobutanol at the volumes, rates and costs that we expect and are unable to revert to ethanol production at full capacity, or produce both products simultaneously, we would be unable to match the facility's historical economic performance and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. Fluctuations in the price of corn and other feedstocks may affect our cost structure.. Our approach to the biofuels and chemicals markets will be dependent on the price of corn and other feedstocks that will be used to produce ethanol and isobutanol. A decrease in the availability of plant feedstocks or an increase in the price may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. At certain levels, prices may make these products uneconomical to use and produce, as we may be unable to pass the full amount of feedstock cost increases on to our customers.. The price and availability of corn and other plant feedstocks may be influenced by general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include weather conditions, farming decisions, government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global demand and supply. For example, corn prices may increase significantly in response to drought conditions in the Midwestern region of the U.S. and any resulting decrease in the supply of corn could lead to the restriction of corn supplies, which in turn could cause further increases in the price of corn. The significance and relative impact of these factors on the price of plant feedstocks is difficult to predict, especially without knowing what types of plant feedstock materials we may need to use.. Fluctuations in the price and availability of natural gas may harm our performance.. The ethanol facilities that we have Retrofitted or plan to Retrofit to produce isobutanol use significant amounts of natural gas to produce ethanol. After Retrofit with our GIFT\231 technology, these facilities will continue to require natural gas to produce isobutanol and/or ethanol. Accordingly, our business is dependent upon natural gas supplied by third parties. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions are affected by factors beyond our control, such as weather conditions, overall economic conditions and governmental regulations. Should the price of natural gas increase, our performance could suffer. Likewise, disruptions in the supply of natural gas could have a material impact on our business and results of operations.. Fluctuations in petroleum prices and customer demand patterns may reduce demand for biofuels and bio-based chemicals.. We anticipate marketing our biofuel as an alternative to petroleum-based fuels. Therefore, if the price of oil falls, any revenues that we generate from biofuel products could decline, and we may be unable to produce products that are a commercially viable alternative to petroleum-based fuels. Additionally, demand for liquid transportation fuels, including biofuels, may decrease due to economic conditions or otherwise. We will encounter similar risks in the chemicals industry, where declines in the price of oil may make petroleum-based hydrocarbons less expensive, which could reduce the competitiveness of our bio-based alternatives.. Changes in the prices of distiller's grains and iDGs\231 could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We sell distiller's grains as a co-product from the production of ethanol at the Luverne Facility during any period in which the production of isobutanol is temporarily paused and our management decides that the Luverne Facility will be temporarily reverted to ethanol production, or during periods in which we produce both isobutanol and ethanol simultaneously. We may also sell distiller's grains produced by other ethanol facilities that we acquire, enter into a joint venture or tolling arrangement with, or license to in the future. We also sell the iDGs\231 that are produced as a co-product of our commercial isobutanol production. Distiller's grains and iDGs\231 compete with other animal feed products, and decreases in the prices of these other products could decrease the demand for and price of distiller's grains and iDGs\231. Additionally, we have produced limited quantities of commercial iDGs\231 and, as such, there is a risk that our iDGs\231 may not meet market requirements. If the price of distiller's grains and iDGs\231 decreases or our iDGs\231 do not meet market requirements, our revenue from the sale of distiller's grains and future revenue from the sale of iDGs\231 could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. To the extent that we produce ethanol before commencing isobutanol production, or during periods in which we make the strategic decision to revert to ethanol production, or produce both products simultaneously, we will be vulnerable to fluctuations in the price of and cost to produce ethanol.. We believe that, like the Luverne Facility, the other third-party ethanol production facilities we access can continue to produce ethanol during most of the Retrofit process. In certain cases, we may obtain income from this ethanol production. Further, we have. 22. designed our isobutanol production technology (including the Retrofit of the Luverne Facility) to allow us to revert to ethanol production at certain facilities, or produce both products simultaneously, when the economic conditions for ethanol production make such production desirable. Our earnings from ethanol revenue will be dependent on the price of, demand for and cost to produce ethanol. Decreases in the price of ethanol, whether caused by decreases in gasoline prices, changes in regulations, seasonal fluctuations or otherwise, will reduce our revenues, while increases in the cost of production will reduce our margins. To the extent that ethanol production costs increase or price decreases, earnings from ethanol production could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Sustained narrow commodity margins may cause us to operate at a loss or to reduce or suspend production of ethanol and/or isobutanol at the Luverne Facility, and we may or may not be able to recommence production when margins improve.. Our results from operations will be substantially dependent on commodity prices. Many of the risks associated with volatile commodity prices, including fluctuations in feedstock costs and natural gas costs, apply both to the production of ethanol and isobutanol. Sustained unfavorable commodity prices may cause our combined revenues from sales of ethanol, isobutanol and related co-products to decline below our marginal cost of production. As market conditions change, our management may decide to reduce or suspend production of ethanol and/or isobutanol at the Luverne Facility.. The decision to reduce or suspend production at a facility may create additional costs related to continued maintenance, termination of staff, certain unavoidable fixed costs, termination of customer contracts and increased costs to increase or recommence production in the future. These costs may make it difficult or impractical to increase or recommence production of ethanol and/or isobutanol at the Luverne Facility even if margins improve. In addition, any reduction or suspension of the production of ethanol and/or isobutanol at the Luverne Facility may slow or stop our commercialization process, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be successful in the development of individual steps in, or an integrated process for, the production of commercial quantities of isobutanol from plant feedstocks in a timely or economic manner, or at all.. As of the date of this filing, we have produced only limited quantities of isobutanol at commercial scale and we may not be successful in increasing our production from these limited production levels. The production of isobutanol requires multiple integrated steps, including:. <U+25CF>  obtaining the plant feedstocks;. <U+25CF>  treatment with enzymes to produce fermentable sugars;. <U+25CF>  fermentation by organisms to produce isobutanol from the fermentable sugars;. <U+25CF>  distillation of the isobutanol to concentrate and separate it from other materials;. <U+25CF>  purification of the isobutanol; and. <U+25CF>  storage and distribution of the isobutanol.. Our future success depends on our ability to produce commercial quantities of isobutanol in a timely and economic manner. While we have produced isobutanol using our biocatalysts at the Luverne Facility in commercial-scale fermenters, our biocatalysts have not yet produced isobutanol at fully optimized levels at a commercial facility. The risk of contamination and other problems rises as we increase the scale of our isobutanol production. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, we may encounter difficulties in achieving our target isobutanol production yield, rate, concentration or purity at a commercial scale, which could delay or increase the costs involved in commercializing our isobutanol production. In addition, we have limited experience sourcing large quantities of feedstocks and in storing and/or distributing significant volumes of isobutanol. The technological and logistical challenges associated with each of the processes involved in production, sale and distribution of isobutanol are extraordinary, and we may not be able to resolve any difficulties that arise in a timely or cost effective manner, or at all. Even if we are successful in developing an economical process for converting first generation carbohydrate feedstocks such as corn and sugar cane into commercial quantities of isobutanol, we may not be able to adapt such process to other biomass raw materials, including cellulosic biomass.. Prior to commencement of the Luverne Facility Retrofit, we had never built (through Retrofit or otherwise) or operated a commercial isobutanol facility. We believe that we understand the engineering and process characteristics necessary to successfully scale up to larger facilities, and we expect to incur additional capital expenditures to increase isobutanol production levels at the Luverne Facility, but these assumptions may prove to be incorrect. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we can consistently produce isobutanol in an economical manner in commercial quantities. If our costs to build large-scale commercial isobutanol facilities are significantly higher than we expect or if we fail to consistently produce isobutanol economically on a commercial scale or in. 23. commercial volumes, our commercialization of isobutanol and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected.. We have entered into a licensing agreement with Porta Hnos S.A. (\"Porta\") to Retrofit their facility in Argentina, and the production of isobutanol at the Porta facility could be delayed and, as a result, any royalties or other revenues expected to be derived from the licensing agreement may be delayed.. In January 2016, we entered into a license agreement and joint development agreement with Porta to construct multiple isobutanol plants in Argentina using corn as a feedstock, the first of which is expected to be wholly owned by Porta (the \"Porta Facility\").  The plant is expected to have a production capacity of up to five million gallons of isobutanol per year. Once the plant is operational, Gevo expects to generate revenues from this licensing arrangement, through royalties, sales and marketing fees, and other revenue streams such as yeast sales.  The agreements also contemplate Porta constructing at least three additional isobutanol plants for certain of their existing ethanol plant customers. For these projects, Gevo would be the direct licensor of its technology and the marketer for any isobutanol produced, and would expect to receive all royalties and sales and marketing fees generated from these projects. Porta would provide the engineering, procurement and construction (\"EPC\") services for the projects. The production capacity of these additional plants is still to be determined.. Although we will be able to apply our experience from the Retrofit of the Luverne Facility, no two ethanol facilities are exactly alike, and each Retrofit or construction project will require individualized engineering and design work.  Unexpected difficulties unique to the Porta Facility may cause delays in commencing production, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in properly completing the project. Any such unexpected difficulties could delay or limit the revenues that we are able to derive from the licensing arrangement with Porta.  Moreover, there can be no assurances that the Retrofit of the Porta facility will ever be completed or Porta will construct other isobutanol plants as contemplated.  If the Porta Facility project is not completed or if Porta does not construct additional isobutanol facilities, Gevo will not generate any revenue.  In addition, if Porta experiences delays or is unsuccessful in completing the Porta Facility project, this may limit Gevo's ability to license its technology to others, which could reduce the scope of Gevo's business plan and have a material adverse effect on Gevo's results of operations. In addition, if we experience delays or are unsuccessful in completing the Porta Facility project, this may limit our ability to license our technology to others, which could reduce the scope of our business plan and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our development strategy relies on our relationships with partners such as Praj Industries Limited (\"Praj\") and Porta.. In November 2015, we entered into a joint development agreement and a development license agreementwith Praj with the goal for Praj to adapt our isobutanol technology to using non-corn based sugars and lignocellulose feedstocks. Praj is one of the leading suppliers of EPC services to the ethanol industry globally, having provided such services to approximately 350 ethanol plants across 65 countries. As a result, we believe that our alliance with Praj will allow us to more quickly achieve commercial-scale production of isobutanol derived from feedstock outside of the U.S. Porta is a leading supplier of EPC services to the ethanol industry in South America. As a result, we believe that our alliance with Porta will allow us to more quickly achieve commercial-scale production of isobutanol in Argentina and potentially elsewhere in South America. However, Praj and Porta may fail to fulfill their obligations to us under our agreements with them such as failing to meet milestones associated with our joint development agreement. If Praj and Porta fail to fulfill their obligations to us under our agreements, our ability to realize continued development and commercial benefits from our alliance could be affected and our business and prospects could be harmed.. In addition, we may be unable to secure other partners beyond Praj and Porta to assist us in developing commercial isobutanol projects globally. If we are unable to secure such additional partnerships, our business and prospects could be harmed.. We may not be able to successfully identify and acquire access to additional ethanol production facilities suitable for efficient Retrofitting, or acquire access to sufficient capacity to be commercially viable or meet customer demand.. Our strategy currently includes accessing and Retrofitting, either independently or with potential development partners or licensees, existing ethanol facilities for the production of large quantities of isobutanol for commercial distribution and sale. In addition to the Luverne Facility, we have signed licensing agreements with Porta and Praj. However, we may not find future development partners with whom we can implement this growth strategy, and we may not be able to identify facilities suitable for joint venture, acquisition, lease or license.. Even if we successfully identify a facility suitable for efficient Retrofitting, we may not be able to acquire access to such facility in a timely manner, if at all. The owners of the ethanol facility may reach an agreement with another party, refuse to consider a joint venture, acquisition, lease or license, or demand more or different consideration than we are willing to provide. In particular, if the profitability of ethanol production increases, plant owners may be less likely to consider modifying their production, and thus may be less willing to negotiate with us or agree to allow us to Retrofit their facilities for isobutanol production. We may also find that it is necessary to offer special terms, incentives and/or rebates to owners of ethanol facilities that allow us to access and Retrofit their. 24. facilities while our production technology is being proven on a commercial scale. Even if the owners of a facility are interested in reaching an agreement that grants us access to the plant, negotiations may take longer or cost more than we expect, and we may never achieve a final agreement. Further, our ability to raise additional funds will be subject to certain limitations in the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our secured indebtedness with Whitebox, and we may not be able to raise capital on acceptable terms, or at all, to finance our joint venture, acquisition, participation or lease of facilities.. Even if we are able to access and Retrofit several facilities, we may fail to access enough capacity to be commercially viable or meet the volume demands or minimum requirements of our customers, including pursuant to definitive supply or distribution agreements that we may enter into, which may subject us to monetary damages. Failure to acquire access to sufficient capacity in a timely manner and on favorable terms may slow or stop our commercialization process, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Once we acquire access to ethanol facilities, we may be unable to successfully Retrofit them to produce isobutanol, or we may not be able to Retrofit them in a timely and cost-effective manner.. For each ethanol production facility to which we acquire access, we will be required to obtain numerous regulatory approvals and permits to Retrofit and operate the facility. In the U.S., these include such items as a modification to the air permit, fuel registration with the EPA, ethanol excise tax registration and others. These requirements may not be satisfied in a timely manner, or at all. Later-enacted federal and state governmental requirements may also substantially increase our costs or delay or prevent the completion of a Retrofit, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. No two ethanol facilities are exactly alike, and each Retrofit will require individualized engineering and design work. There is no guarantee that we or any contractor we retain will be able to successfully design a commercially viable Retrofit, or properly complete the Retrofit once the engineering plans are completed. Prior to commencement of the Luverne Facility Retrofit, we had never built, via Retrofit or otherwise, a full-scale commercial isobutanol facility. Despite our experience with the Retrofit of the Luverne Facility, our estimates of the capital costs that we will need to incur to Retrofit a commercial-scale ethanol facility may prove to be inaccurate, and each Retrofit may cost materially more to engineer and build than we currently anticipate. For example, our estimates assume that each plant we Retrofit will be performing at full production capacity, and we may need to expend substantial sums to repair or modify underperforming facilities prior to Retrofit.. Furthermore, the Retrofit of acquired facilities will be subject to the risks inherent in the build-out of any manufacturing facility, including risks of delays and cost overruns as a result of factors that may be out of our control, such as delays in the delivery of equipment and subsystems or the failure of such equipment to perform as expected once delivered. In addition, we will depend on third-party relationships in expanding our isobutanol production capacity and such third parties may not fulfill their obligations to us under our arrangements with them. Delays, cost overruns or failures in the Retrofit process will slow our commercial production of isobutanol and harm our performance.. Though our Retrofit design for certain facilities will include the capability to switch between isobutanol and ethanol production, or produce both products simultaneously (as demonstrated by our Luverne Facility), we may be unable to successfully revert to ethanol production, or produce both products simultaneously at certain facilities, or such facilities may produce ethanol less efficiently or in lower volumes than they did before the Retrofit. In addition, we may be unable to secure the necessary regulatory approvals and permits to switch between isobutanol and ethanol production, or produce both products simultaneously, in a timely manner, or at all. Thus, if we fail to achieve commercial levels of isobutanol production at a Retrofitted facility, we may be unable to rely on ethanol production as an alternative or additional revenue source, which could have a material adverse effect on our prospects.. Our facilities and process may fail to produce isobutanol at the volumes, rates and costs we expect.. Some or all of the facilities we choose to Retrofit may be in locations distant from corn or other feedstock sources, which could increase our feedstock costs or prevent us from acquiring sufficient feedstock volumes for commercial production. General market conditions might also cause increases in feedstock prices, which could likewise increase our production costs.. Even if we secure access to sufficient volumes of feedstock, the facilities we Retrofit for isobutanol production may fail to perform as expected. The equipment and subsystems installed during the Retrofit may never operate as planned. Our systems may prove incompatible with the original facility, or require additional modification after installation. Our biocatalyst may perform less efficiently than it did in testing, if at all. Contamination of plant equipment may require us to replace our biocatalyst more often than expected, require unplanned installation or replacement of equipment, or cause our fermentation process to yield undesired or harmful by-products. Likewise, our feedstock may contain contaminants like wild yeast, which naturally ferments feedstock into ethanol. The presence of contaminants, such as wild yeast, in our feedstock could reduce the purity of the isobutanol that we produce and require us to invest in more costly isobutanol separation processes or equipment. Unexpected problems may force us to cease or delay production and the time and costs involved with such delays may prove prohibitive. Any or all of these risks could prevent us from achieving the. 25. production throughput and yields necessary to achieve our target annualized production run rates and/or to meet the volume demands or minimum requirements of our customers, including pursuant to definitive supply or distribution agreements that we may enter into, which may subject us to monetary damages. Failure to achieve these rates or meet these minimum requirements, or achieving them only after significant additional expenditures, could substantially harm our commercial performance.. We may be unable to produce isobutanol, ATJ or other products in accordance with customer specifications.. Even if we produce isobutanol, ATL or other products at our targeted rates, we may be unable to produce these products to meet customer specifications, including those defined in ASTM D7862 \"Standard Specification for Butanol for Blending with Gasoline for Use as Automotive Spark-Ignition Engine Fuel' or ASTM D7566 \"Standard Specifications for Aviation Turbine Fuel Containing Synthesized Hydrocarbons\". We may need to add additional processing steps or incur capital expenditures in order to meet customer specifications which could add significant costs to our production process. For example, at the Luverne Facility we intend to acquire and install a product purification column, which we believe will allow us to achieve our target customers' product specifications without continuing to rely on third-party contract tolling providers. If we fail to meet specific product or volume specifications contained in a supply agreement, the customer may have the right to seek an alternate supply of isobutanol and/or terminate the agreement completely, and we could be required to pay shortfall fees or otherwise be subject to damages. A failure to successfully meet the specifications of our potential customers could decrease demand, and significantly hinder market adoption of our products.. We lack significant experience operating commercial-scale ethanol and isobutanol facilities, and may encounter substantial difficulties operating commercial plants or expanding our business.. We have very limited experience operating commercial-scale ethanol and isobutanol facilities. Accordingly, we may encounter significant difficulties operating at a commercial scale. We believe that our future facilities will, like the Luverne Facility, be able to continue producing ethanol during much of the Retrofit process. We will need to successfully administer and manage this production. Although Porta and the employees at the Luverne facility are experienced in the operation of ethanol facilities, and our future development partners or the entities that we acquire may likewise have such experience, we may be unable to manage ethanol-producing operations, especially given the possible complications associated with a simultaneous Retrofit. Once we complete a commercial Retrofit, operational difficulties may increase, because neither we nor anyone else has significant experience operating a pure isobutanol fermentation facility at a commercial scale. The skills and knowledge gained in operating commercial ethanol facilities or small-scale isobutanol plants may prove insufficient for successful operation of a large-scale isobutanol facility, and we may be required to expend significant time and money to develop our capabilities in isobutanol facility operation. We may also need to hire new employees or contract with third parties to help manage our operations, and our performance will suffer if we are unable to hire qualified parties or if they perform poorly.. We may face additional operational difficulties as we further expand our production capacity. Integrating new facilities with our existing operations may prove difficult. Rapid growth, resulting from our operation of, or other involvement with, isobutanol facilities or otherwise, may impose a significant burden on our administrative and operational resources. To effectively manage our growth and execute our expansion plans, we will need to expand our administrative and operational resources substantially and attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians and other personnel. We may be unable to do so. Failure to meet the operational challenges of developing and managing increased production of isobutanol and/or ethanol, or failure to otherwise manage our growth, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may have difficulty adapting our technology to commercial-scale fermentation, which could delay or prevent our commercialization of isobutanol.. While we have demonstrated the ability to produce isobutanol under the demonstration plant operating conditions and under commercial scale operating conditions at the Luverne Facility, and we have succeeded in reaching our commercial fermentation performance targets for isobutanol concentration, fermentation productivity and isobutanol yield in laboratory tests, we have not yet reached all performance targets in a commercial plant environment. Ultimately, our yeast biocatalyst may not be able to meet the commercial performance targets in a timely manner, or ever. In addition, the risk of contamination and other problems may increase as we seek to ramp up our production capacity, which could negatively impact our cost of production or require additional capital expenditures to solve for these problems. If we encounter difficulties in optimizing our production, our commercialization of isobutanol and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected.. We may have difficulties gaining market acceptance and successfully marketing our isobutanol and other hydrocarbon products to customers, including chemical producers, fuel distributors and refiners.. A key component of our business strategy is to market our isobutanol and other hydrocarbon products to chemical producers, fuels distributors, refiners and other fuel and chemical industry market participants. We have no experience marketing isobutanol on a commercial scale and we may fail to successfully negotiate marketing agreements in a timely manner or on favorable terms. If we fail. 26. to successfully market our isobutanol to refiners, fuels distributors, chemical producers and others, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected.. We also intend to market our isobutanol to chemical producers for use in making various chemicals such as isobutylene, a type of butene that can be produced through the dehydration of isobutanol. Although a significant market currently exists for isobutylene produced from petroleum, which is widely used in the production of plastics, specialty chemicals, alkylate for gasoline blending and high octane aviation gasoline, no one has successfully created isobutylene on a commercial scale from bio-isobutanol. Therefore, to gain market acceptance and successfully market our isobutanol to chemical producers, we must show that our isobutanol can be converted into isobutylene at a commercial scale. As no company currently dehydrates commercial volumes of isobutanol into isobutylene, we must demonstrate the large-scale feasibility of the process and potentially reach agreements with companies that are willing to invest in the necessary dehydration infrastructure. Failure to reach favorable agreements with these companies, or the inability of their plants to convert isobutanol into isobutylene at sufficient scale, may slow our development in the chemicals market and could significantly affect our profitability.. Obtaining market acceptance in the chemicals industry is complicated by the fact that many potential chemicals industry customers have invested substantial amounts of time and money in developing petroleum-based production channels. These potential customers generally have well-developed manufacturing processes and arrangements with suppliers of chemical components, and may display substantial resistance to changing these processes. Pre-existing contractual commitments, unwillingness to invest in new infrastructure, distrust of new production methods and lengthy relationships with current suppliers may all slow market acceptance of isobutanol.. A very limited market currently exists for isobutanol as a fuel or as a gasoline blendstock. Therefore, to gain market acceptance and successfully market our isobutanol to fuels distributors and refiners, we must effectively demonstrate the commercial advantages of using isobutanol over other biofuels and blendstocks, as well as our ability to produce isobutanol reliably on a commercial scale at a sufficiently low cost. We must show that isobutanol is compatible with existing infrastructure and does not damage pipes, engines, storage facilities or pumps. We must also overcome marketing and lobbying efforts by producers of other biofuels and blendstocks, including ethanol, many of whom may have greater resources than we do. If the markets for isobutanol as a fuel or as a gasoline blendstock do not develop as we currently anticipate, or if we are unable to penetrate these markets successfully, our revenue and growth rate could be materially and adversely affected.. We believe that consumer demand for environmentally sensitive products will drive demand among large brand owners for isobutanol and renewable hydrocarbon sources. One of our marketing strategies is to leverage this demand to obtain commitments from large brand owners to purchase products made from our isobutanol by third parties. We believe these commitments will, in turn, promote chemicals industry demand for our isobutanol and hydrocarbon products. If consumer demand for environmentally sensitive products fails to develop at sufficient scale or if such demand fails to drive large brand owners to seek sources of renewable isobutanol or hydrocarbons, our revenue and growth rate could be materially and adversely affected.. We may have difficulties scaling up our hydrocarbon technology, and, as such, we may be unable to produce commercial quantities of our hydrocarbons, and any such production may be more costly than we anticipate. We have developed a hydrocarbon processing demonstration plant (\"Hydrocarbons Demo Plant\") in Silsbee, Texas, in partnership with South Hampton Resources, Inc. The Hydrocarbon Demo Plant can process approximately 6,000 to 7,000 gallons of our isobutanol per month into a variety of renewable hydrocarbons for use as fuels and chemicals. We have demonstrated the ability to convert our isobutanol at this level into products such as ATJ, isooctane, isooctene and par-xylene.. The production and sale of commercial volumes of hydrocarbons such as ATJ, isooctane and isooctene, produced from our isobutanol is anticipated to be an important part of our future business plans. However, we may encounter challenges in scaling up our process to convert isobutanol into hydrocarbon products successfully. In addition, the cost to construct commercial hydrocarbons facilities or the production costs associated with the operation of such facilities may be higher than we project. If we encounter such difficulties, this may significantly impact the development of the markets for our hydrocarbon products and could significantly affect our profitability.. We may be reliant on Butamax to develop certain markets for isobutanol.. As part of the License Agreement entered into with Butamax, it was agreed that Butamax would take the lead in developing the markets for on-road gasoline blendstocks. This would entail progressing the required approvals for these markets, as well as managing the marketing and distribution of our isobutanol and our potential licensee's isobutanol in these markets beyond certain minimum volumes. If Butamax is unable to obtain the necessary approvals to sell isobutanol into the on-road gasoline blendstock markets, or if it is unsuccessful in building market demand for isobutanol as an on-road gasoline blendstock, our revenue and growth rate could be materially and adversely affected.. 27. We may be required to pay Butamax royalties for selling isobutanol into certain markets, which could hinder our ability to competitively sell our isobutanol into those markets.. As part of the License Agreement entered into with Butamax, it was agreed that we, and our potential licensees, may be required to pay Butamax royalties for selling isobutanol into the on-road gasoline blendstock markets and the chemical isobutylene applications markets beyond certain minimum volumes. The addition of these royalties may make our isobutanol uncompetitive from a price perspective, which may hinder our ability to sell into these markets. If this is the case, our revenue and growth rate could be materially and adversely affected.. Even if we are successful in consistently producing isobutanol and our hydrocarbon products on a commercial scale, we may not be successful in negotiating sufficient supply agreements for our production.. We expect that many of our customers will be large companies with extensive experience operating in the fuels or chemicals markets. As an early stage company, we lack commercial operating experience, and may face difficulties in developing marketing expertise in these fields. Our business model relies upon our ability to successfully negotiate and structure long-term supply agreements for the isobutanol and other products we produce. Certain agreements with existing and potential customers may initially only provide for the purchase of limited quantities from us. For example, our agreement with Alaska Airlines entered into in May 2015 provides for the initial purchase of a limited quantity of our ATJ fuel, and does not obligate Alaska Airlines to purchase any additional quantity of jet fuel in addition to the amount to be initially purchased. Our ability to increase our sales will depend in large part upon our ability to expand these existing customer relationships into long-term supply agreements. Maintaining and expanding our existing relationships and establishing new ones can require substantial investment without any assurance from customers that they will place significant orders. In addition, many of our potential customers may be more experienced in these matters than we are, and we may fail to successfully negotiate these agreements in a timely manner or on favorable terms which, in turn, may force us to slow our production, delay our acquiring and Retrofitting of additional plants, dedicate additional resources to increasing our storage capacity and/or dedicate resources to sales in spot markets. Furthermore, should we become more dependent on spot market sales, our profitability will become increasingly vulnerable to short-term fluctuations in the price and demand for petroleum-based fuels and competing substitutes.. Even if we are successful in consistently producing isobutanol and our hydrocarbon products on a commercial scale, we may not be successful in negotiating pricing terms sufficient to generate positive results from operations at the Luverne Facility.. We expect that many of our customers will be large companies with extensive experience operating in the fuels or chemicals markets. As an early stage company, we lack commercial operating experience, and may face difficulties in developing marketing expertise in these fields. Our business model relies upon our ability to negotiate pricing terms for the isobutanol and other products we produce that generate positive results from the operations of the Luverne Facility. Many of our potential customers may be more experienced in these matters than we are. We may fail to negotiate these agreements in a timely manner, which may force us to dedicate resources to sales in spot markets. If we become more dependent on spot market sales our profitability will become increasingly vulnerable to short-term fluctuations in the price and demand for our products.. Our isobutanol may be less compatible with existing refining and transportation infrastructure than we believe, which may hinder our ability to market our product on a large scale.. We developed our business model based on our belief that our isobutanol is fully compatible with existing refinery infrastructure. For example, when making isobutanol blends, we believe that gasoline refineries will be able to pump our isobutanol through their pipes and blend it in their existing facilities without damaging their equipment. If our isobutanol proves unsuitable for such handling, it will be more expensive for refiners to use our isobutanol than we anticipate, and they may be less willing to adopt it as a gasoline blendstock, forcing us to seek alternative purchasers.. Likewise, our plans for marketing our isobutanol are based upon our belief that it will be compatible with the pipes, tanks and other infrastructure currently used for transporting, storing and distributing gasoline. If our isobutanol or products incorporating our isobutanol cannot be transported with this equipment, we will be forced to seek alternative transportation arrangements, which will make our isobutanol and products produced from our isobutanol more expensive to transport and less appealing to potential customers. Reduced compatibility with either refinery or transportation infrastructure may slow or prevent market adoption of our isobutanol, which could substantially harm our performance.. A sustained low oil price environment may negatively impact the price we receive for the sale of our isobutanol, ethanol and hydrocarbon products.. Many of our end-products such as isobutanol, ethanol and hydrocarbon products have some level of price correlation with crude oil. If crude oil prices were to remain at low levels over a sustained period of time, this may have an impact on the pricing that we are. 28. able to achieve in the marketplace for many of those end-products. This may cause us to operate at a lower, or negative, operating margins and, as a result, our management may decide to reduce or suspend production of ethanol and/or isobutanol at the Luverne Facility. Unfavorable operating margins may also impact our ability to access and Retrofit, either independently or with potential development partners or licensees, existing ethanol facilities for the production of isobutanol for commercial distribution and sale.. If we engage in additional acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may potentially face numerous risks that could adversely affect our business and operations.. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may acquire businesses, assets, technologies or products to enhance our business in the future. In connection with any future acquisitions, we could, subject to certain limitations in the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our secured indebtedness with Whitebox:. <U+25CF>  issue additional equity securities which would dilute our current stockholders;. <U+25CF>  incur substantial debt to fund the acquisitions; or. <U+25CF>  assume significant liabilities.. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and other liabilities, diversion of management's attention from our core business, adverse effects on existing business relationships with current and/or prospective partners, customers and/or suppliers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and potential loss of key employees. Other than our acquisition of Luverne, we have not engaged in acquisitions in the past, and do not have experience in managing the integration process. Therefore, we may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, assets, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future without a significant expenditure of operating, financial and management resources, if at all. The integration process could divert management time from focusing on operating our business, result in a decline in employee morale and cause retention issues to arise from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business. In addition, we may acquire companies that have insufficient internal financial controls, which could impair our ability to integrate the acquired company and adversely impact our financial reporting. If we fail in our integration efforts with respect to acquisitions and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. If we engage in additional joint ventures, we will incur a variety of costs and may potentially face numerous risks that could adversely affect our business and operations.. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may enter into joint ventures with the owners of existing ethanol production facilities in order to acquire access to additional isobutanol production capacity. We currently anticipate that in each such joint venture, the ethanol producer would contribute access to its existing ethanol production facility and we would be responsible for Retrofitting such facility to produce isobutanol. Upon completion of the Retrofit, and in some cases the attainment of certain performance targets, both parties to the joint venture would receive a portion of the profits from the sale of isobutanol, consistent with our business model. In connection with these joint ventures, we could incur substantial debt to fund the Retrofit of the accessed facilities and we could assume significant liabilities.. Realizing the anticipated benefits of joint ventures, including projected increases to production capacity and additional revenue opportunities, involves a number of potential challenges. The failure to meet these challenges could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. Joint ventures are complex and time-consuming and we may encounter unexpected difficulties or incur unexpected costs related to such arrangements, including:. <U+25CF>  difficulties negotiating joint venture agreements with favorable terms and establishing relevant performance metrics;. <U+25CF>  difficulties completing the Retrofits of the accessed facilities using our integrated fermentation technology;. <U+25CF>  the inability to meet applicable performance targets related to the production of isobutanol;. <U+25CF>  difficulties obtaining the permits and approvals required to produce and sell our products in different geographic areas;. <U+25CF>  complexities associated with managing the geographic separation of accessed facilities;. <U+25CF>  diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns to matters related to the joint ventures;. <U+25CF>  difficulties maintaining effective relationships with personnel from different corporate cultures; and. <U+25CF>  the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset Retrofit costs.. Additionally, our joint venture partners may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to entering into the joint ventures. In particular, to the extent that our joint venture partners failed to comply with or. 29. otherwise violated applicable laws or regulations, or failed to fulfill their contractual obligations, we may suffer financial harm and/or reputational harm for these violations or otherwise be adversely affected.. Our joint venture partners may have significant amounts of existing debt and may not be able to service their existing debt obligations, which could cause the failure of a specific project and the loss by us of any investment we have made to Retrofit the facilities owned by the joint venture partner. In addition, if we are unable to meet specified performance targets related to the production of isobutanol at a facility owned by one of our joint venture partners, we may never become eligible to receive a portion of the profits of the joint venture and may be unable to recover the costs of Retrofitting the facility.. Additionally, we plan to be a leading marketer for all isobutanol and co-products produced using our proprietary technology and sold in markets other than on-road gasoline blendstocks including, without limitation, all isobutanol that is produced by any facilities that we access via joint venture. Marketing agreements can be very complex and the obligations that we assume as a leading marketer of isobutanol may be time consuming. We have no experience marketing isobutanol on a commercial scale and we may fail to successfully negotiate marketing agreements in a timely manner or on favorable terms. If we fail to successfully market the isobutanol produced using our proprietary technology to refiners and chemical producers, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected.. If we lose key personnel, including key management personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, it could delay our product development programs and harm our research and development efforts, make it more difficult to pursue partnerships or develop our own products or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business is complex and we intend to target a variety of markets. Therefore, it is critical that our management team and employee workforce are knowledgeable in the areas in which we operate. The loss of any key members of our management, including our named executive officers, or the failure to attract or retain other key employees who possess the requisite expertise for the conduct of our business, could prevent us from developing and commercializing our products for our target markets and entering into partnerships or licensing arrangements to execute our business strategy. In addition, the loss of any key scientific staff, or the failure to attract or retain other key scientific employees, could prevent us from developing and commercializing our products for our target markets and entering into partnerships or licensing arrangements to execute our business strategy. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology and other technology-based businesses, particularly in the advanced biofuels area, or due to the limited availability of personnel with the qualifications or experience necessary for our renewable chemicals and advanced biofuels business. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience staffing constraints that will adversely affect our ability to meet the demands of our partners and customers in a timely fashion or to support our internal research and development programs. In particular, our product and process development programs are dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists. Competition for experienced scientists and other technical personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so on acceptable terms. All of our employees are at-will employees, meaning that either the employee or we may terminate their employment at any time.. Our planned activities will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products and processes developed through our technology platform or acquired through strategic or other transactions, especially in the end markets that we seek to penetrate. These activities will require the addition of new personnel, and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. The inability to attract personnel with appropriate skills or to develop the necessary expertise could impair our ability to grow our business.. Our government grants are subject to uncertainty, which could harm our business and results of operations.. We have received various government grants, including a cooperative agreement, to complement and enhance our own resources. We may seek to obtain government grants and subsidies in the future to offset all or a portion of the costs of Retrofitting existing ethanol manufacturing facilities and the costs of our research and development activities. We cannot be certain that we will be able to secure any such government grants or subsidies. Any new grants that we may obtain may be terminated, modified or recovered by the granting governmental body under certain conditions.. We may also be subject to audits by government agencies as part of routine audits of our activities funded by our government grants. As part of an audit, these agencies may review our performance, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Funds available under grants must be applied by us toward the research and development programs specified by the granting agencies, rather than for all of our programs generally. If any of our costs are found to be allocated improperly, the costs may not be reimbursed and any costs already reimbursed may have to be refunded. Accordingly, an audit could result in an adjustment to our revenues and results of operations.. 30. We may face substantial competition from companies with greater resources and financial strength which could adversely affect our performance and growth.. We may face substantial competition in the markets for isobutanol, ethanol, polyester, rubber, plastics, fibers, other polymers and hydrocarbon fuels. Our competitors include companies in the incumbent petroleum-based industry as well as those in the nascent biorenewable industry. The incumbent petroleum-based industry benefits from a large established infrastructure, production capability and business relationships. The incumbents' greater resources and financial strength provide significant competitive advantages that we may not be able to overcome in a timely manner. Academic and government institutions may also develop technologies which will compete with us in the chemicals, solvents and blendstock markets.. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products that reach the market in a timely manner and are technologically superior to and/or are less expensive than other products on the market. Many of our competitors have substantially greater production, financial, research and development, personnel and marketing resources than we do. In addition, certain of our competitors may also benefit from local government subsidies and other incentives that are not available to us. As a result, our competitors may be able to develop competing and/or superior technologies and processes, and compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a longer period of time than we could. Our technologies and products may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances or entirely different approaches developed by one or more of our competitors. As more companies develop new intellectual property in our markets, the possibility of a competitor acquiring patent or other rights that may limit our products or potential products increases, which could lead to litigation. Furthermore, to secure purchase agreements from certain customers, we may be required to enter into exclusive supply contracts, which could limit our ability to further expand our sales to new customers. Likewise, major potential customers may be locked into long-term, exclusive agreements with our competitors, which could inhibit our ability to compete for their business.. In addition, various governments have recently announced a number of spending programs focused on the development of clean technologies, including alternatives to petroleum-based fuels and the reduction of carbon emissions. Such spending programs could lead to increased funding for our competitors or a rapid increase in the number of competitors within those markets.. Our limited resources relative to many of our competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to new developments and other competitive pressures. This failure could reduce our competitiveness and market share, adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and prevent us from obtaining or maintaining profitability.. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances.. The biorenewable industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Technological development by others may impact the competitiveness of our products in the marketplace. Competitors and potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete or may use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense.. We may face significant and substantial competition as it relates to our proprietary biofuels which could adversely affect our performance and growth.. In the production of isobutanol, we face competition from Butamax. Additionally, a number of companies including Cathay Industrial Biotech, Ltd., Green Biologics Ltd., METabolic Explorer, S.A. and Eastman Chemical Company (which acquired TetraVitae Bioscience, Inc. in November 2011) are developing n-butanol production capability from a variety of renewable feedstocks.. In the ethanol market, we operate in a highly competitive industry in the U.S. According to the Renewable Fuels Association, there are over 200 ethanol facilities in the U.S. with an installed nameplate capacity of almost 15 billion gallons. Some of the key competitors in the U.S. include Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, Green Plains, Inc., POET, LLC and Valero Energy Corporation. We also face competition from foreign producers of ethanol. Brazil is believed to be the world's second largest ethanol producing country. Many producers have much larger production capacities and operate at a lower cost of production than we do. As a result, these companies may be able to compete more effectively in narrower commodity margin environments.. In the gasoline blendstock market, we will compete with our isobutanol against renewable ethanol producers (including those working to produce ethanol from cellulosic feedstocks), producers of alkylate from petroleum and producers of other blendstocks, all of whom may reduce our ability to obtain market share or maintain our price levels.  If any of these competitors succeed in producing blendstocks more efficiently, in higher volumes or offering superior performance than our isobutanol, our financial performance may suffer. Furthermore, if our competitors have more success marketing their products or reach development or supply agreements with major customers, our competitive position may also be harmed.. 31. In the production of other biofuels, including our hydrocarbon products, key competitors include Shell Oil Company, BP, Neste Corporation, Altair Engineering, Inc., Fulcrum Bioenergy, Inc., Red Rocks Biofuels LLC,  POET, LLC, ICM, Inc., Mascoma Corporation, Inbicon A/S, INEOS New Planet BioEnergy LLC, Archer Daniels Midland Company, BlueFire Renewables, Inc., Iogen Corporation, and many smaller startup companies. If these companies are successful in establishing low cost cellulosic ethanol or other fuel production, it could negatively impact the market for our isobutanol as a gasoline blendstock. In the markets for the hydrocarbon fuels that we plan to produce from our isobutanol, we will face competition from the incumbent petroleum-based fuels industry. The incumbent petroleum-based fuels industry makes the vast majority of the world's gasoline, jet and diesel fuels and blendstocks. It is a mature industry with a substantial base of infrastructure for the production and distribution of petroleum-derived products. The size, established infrastructure and significant resources of many companies in this industry may put us at a substantial competitive disadvantage and delay or prevent the establishment and growth of our business in the market for hydrocarbon fuels.. Biofuels companies may also provide substantial competition in the hydrocarbon fuels market. With respect to production of renewable gasoline, biofuels competitors are numerous and include both large established companies and numerous startups. For example, Virent Energy Systems, Inc. has developed a process for making gasoline and gasoline blendstocks. Many other competitors may do so as well. In the jet fuel market, we will face competition from companies such as Synthetic Genomics, Inc., and Exxon-Mobil Corporation that are pursuing production of jet fuel from algae-based technology.  Renewable Energy Group, Inc. and others are also targeting production of jet fuels from vegetable oils and animal fats.  Red Rock Biofuels LLC and others are planning to produce jet fuel from renewable biomass. We may also face competition from companies working to produce jet fuel from hydrogenated fatty acid methyl esters. In the diesel fuels market, competitors such as Amyris Biotechnologies, Inc., Renewable Energy Group, Inc., Fulcrum Bioenergy, Inc., Neste Corporation and Altair Engineering, Inc.,  have developed technologies for production of alternative hydrocarbon diesel fuel.. Our competitive position in the polyester, rubber, plastics, fibers and other polymers markets versus the incumbent petroleum-derived products and other renewable butanol producers may not be favorable.. In the polyester, rubber, plastics, fibers and other polymers markets, we face competition from incumbent petroleum-derived products, other renewable isobutanol producers and renewable n-butanol producers. Our competitive position versus the incumbent petroleum-derived products and other renewable butanol producers may not be favorable. Petroleum-derived products have dominated the market for many years and there is substantial existing infrastructure for production from petroleum sources, which may impede our ability to establish a position in these markets. Other isobutanol and n-butanol companies may develop technologies that prove more effective than our isobutanol production technology, or such companies may be more adept at marketing their production. Additionally, one company in France, Global Bioenergies, S.A., is pursuing the production of isobutylene from renewable carbohydrates directly. Since conversion of isobutanol to butenes such as isobutylene is a key step in producing many polyester, rubber, plastics, fibers and other polymers from our isobutanol, this direct production of renewable isobutylene, if successful, could limit our opportunities in these markets.. In the polyester, rubber, plastics, fibers and other polymers markets, we expect to face vigorous competition from existing technologies. The companies we may compete with may have significantly greater access to resources, far more industry experience and/or more established sales and marketing networks. Additionally, since we do not plan to produce most of these products directly, we will depend on the willingness of potential customers to purchase and convert our isobutanol into their products. These potential customers generally have well-developed manufacturing processes and arrangements with suppliers of the chemical components of their products and may have a resistance to changing these processes and components. These potential customers frequently impose lengthy and complex product qualification procedures on their suppliers, influenced by consumer preference, manufacturing considerations such as process changes and capital and other costs associated with transitioning to alternative components, supplier operating history, regulatory issues, product liability and other factors, many of which are unknown to, or not well understood by, us. Satisfying these processes may take many months or years. If we are unable to convince these potential customers that our isobutanol is comparable or superior to the alternatives that they currently use, we will not be successful in entering these markets and our business will be adversely affected.. Business interruptions could delay us in the process of developing our products and could disrupt our sales.. We are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events that could disrupt our operations, such as riots, civil disturbances, war, terrorist acts, floods, infections in our laboratory or production facilities or those of our contract manufacturers and other events beyond our control. We do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan. In addition, we may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur. Any losses or damages we incur could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and success as an overall business.. 32. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, human error, unauthorized access, natural disasters, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our business. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability, reputation damage and harm to our business operations.. We may engage in hedging transactions, which could harm our business.. We have historically engaged in hedging transactions to offset some of the effects of volatility in commodity prices. We have generally followed a policy of using exchange-traded futures contracts to reduce our net position in agricultural commodity inventories and forward purchase contracts to manage price risk. Hedging activities may cause us to suffer losses, such as if we purchase a position in a declining market or sell a position in a rising market. Furthermore, hedging exposes us to the risk that we may have under- or over-estimated our need for a specific commodity or that the other party to a hedging contract may default on its obligation. If there are significant swings in commodity prices, or if we purchase more corn for future delivery than we can process, we may have to pay to terminate a futures contract, resell unneeded corn inventory at a loss, or produce our products at a loss, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We may vary the hedging strategies we undertake, which could leave us more vulnerable to increases in commodity prices or decreases in the prices of isobutanol, distiller's grains, iDGs\231 or ethanol. Losses from hedging activities and changes in hedging strategy could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Ethical, legal and social concerns about genetically engineered products and processes, and similar concerns about feedstocks grown on land that could be used for food production, could limit or prevent the use of our products, processes and technologies and limit our revenues.. Some of our processes involve the use of genetically engineered organisms or genetic engineering technologies. Additionally, our feedstocks may be grown on land that could be used for food production, which subjects our feedstock sources to \"food versus fuel\" concerns. If we are not able to overcome the ethical, legal and social concerns relating to genetic engineering or food versus fuel, our products and processes may not be accepted. Any of the risks discussed below could result in increased expenses, delays or other impediments to our programs or the public acceptance and commercialization of products and processes dependent on our technologies or inventions.. Our ability to develop and commercialize one or more of our technologies, products, or processes could be limited by the following factors:. <U+25CF>  public attitudes about the safety and environmental hazards of, and ethical concerns over, genetic research and genetically engineered products and processes, which could influence public acceptance of our technologies, products and processes;. <U+25CF>  public attitudes regarding and potential changes to laws governing ownership of genetic material, which could harm our intellectual property rights with respect to our genetic material and discourage others from supporting, developing or commercializing our products, processes and technologies;. <U+25CF>  public attitudes and ethical concerns surrounding production of feedstocks on land which could be used to grow food, which could influence public acceptance of our technologies, products and processes;. <U+25CF>  governmental reaction to negative publicity concerning genetically engineered organisms, which could result in greater government regulation of genetic research and derivative products; and. <U+25CF>  governmental reaction to negative publicity concerning feedstocks produced on land which could be used to grow food, which could result in greater government regulation of feedstock sources.. The subjects of genetically engineered organisms and food versus fuel have received negative publicity, which has aroused public debate. This adverse publicity could lead to greater regulation and trade restrictions on imports of genetically engineered products or feedstocks grown on land suitable for food production.. The biocatalysts that we develop have significantly enhanced characteristics compared to those found in naturally occurring enzymes or microbes. While we produce our biocatalysts only for use in a controlled industrial environment, the release of such biocatalysts into uncontrolled environments could have unintended consequences. Any adverse effect resulting from such a release could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, and we may be exposed to liability for any resulting harm.. 33. As isobutanol has not previously been used as a commercial fuel in significant amounts, its use subjects us to product liability risks, and we may have difficulties obtaining product liability insurance.. Isobutanol has not previously been used as a commercial fuel and research regarding its impact on engines and distribution infrastructure is ongoing. Though we intend to test our isobutanol further before its commercialization, there is a risk that it may damage engines or otherwise fail to perform as expected. If isobutanol degrades the performance or reduces the lifecycle of engines, or causes them to fail to meet emissions standards, market acceptance could be slowed or stopped, and we could be subject to product liability claims. Furthermore, due to isobutanol's lack of commercial history as a fuel, we are uncertain as to whether we will be able to acquire product liability insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. A significant product liability lawsuit could substantially impair our production efforts and could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to use some or all of our net operating loss carry-forwards to offset future income.. We have net operating loss carryforwards due to prior period losses, which if not utilized will begin to expire at various times over the next 20 years. If we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards, these carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities.. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period) is subject to limitation on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating loss carry-forwards, or net operating losses, to offset future taxable income. We may have experienced one or more ownership changes in prior years, and the issuance of shares in connection with our initial public offering may itself have triggered an ownership change. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership, which may be outside of our control, may trigger an ownership change, as may future equity offerings or acquisitions that have equity as a component of the purchase price. If an ownership change has occurred or does occur in the future, our ability to utilize our net operating losses to offset income if we attain profitability may be limited.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and could negatively impact the price of our stock.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Section 404\") requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting and have our principal executive officer and principal financial officer certify as to the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. The process of maintaining our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant attention of management. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Even if we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of their inherent limitations, our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to maintain required controls or implement new or additional controls as circumstances warrant, or difficulties encountered in maintaining or implementing controls, could harm our results of operations or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.. Our management has concluded that there are no material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017. However, there can be no assurance that our controls over financial processes and reporting will be effective in the future or that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market's confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, a delay in compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including SEC action, ineligibility for short form resale registration, the suspension or delisting of our common stock from the stock exchange on which it is listed and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price and could harm our business.. We may enter into letters of intent, memoranda of understanding and other largely non-binding agreements with potential customers or partners that may not result in legally binding, definitive agreements.. From time to time, we may enter into letters of intent, memoranda of understanding and other largely non-binding agreements or understandings with potential customers or partners in order to develop our business and the markets that we serve. We can make no assurance that legally binding, definitive agreements reflecting the terms of such non-binding agreements will be completed with such customers or partners, or at all.. 34. Competiveness for our products for fuel use in the U.S. depends in part on the United States Renewable Fuel Standard Program or RFS Program at the federal level, and the benefits to our products derived from the RFS Program could change.. The RFS Program and policy are currently being discussed by policy makers.  The RFS Program and policy could change impacting the RIN benefits our products could receive, making our products less competitive to the incumbent products made from petroleum.. We may not qualify for significant carbon value benefit in those states, regions, and countries where renewable carbon value in fuel products is being assigned.. The possibility exists that our products may not qualify for benefits of the Low Carbon Fuel Standard Program (LCFS) in California or similar programs in other states and countries.  Failure of our products to qualify for LCFS or other similar programs could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. Our ability to compete may be adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in defending against any claims by competitors or others that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights.. The various bioindustrial markets in which we plan to operate are subject to frequent and extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. In addition, many companies in intellectual property-dependent industries, including the renewable energy industry, have employed intellectual property litigation as a means to gain an advantage over their competitors. As a result, we may be required to defend against claims of intellectual property infringement that may be asserted by our competitors against us and, if the outcome of any such litigation is adverse to us, it may affect our ability to compete effectively.. Litigation, interferences, opposition proceedings or other intellectual property proceedings inside and outside of the U.S. may divert management time from focusing on business operations, could cause us to spend significant amounts of money and may have no guarantee of success. Any future intellectual property litigation could also force us to do one or more of the following:. <U+25CF>  stop selling, incorporating, manufacturing or using our products that use the subject intellectual property;. <U+25CF>  obtain from a third party asserting its intellectual property rights, a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all;. <U+25CF>  redesign those products or processes, such as our process for producing isobutanol, that use any allegedly infringing or misappropriated technology, which may result in significant cost or delay to us, or which redesign could be technically infeasible;. <U+25CF>  pay attorneys' fees and expenses; or. <U+25CF>  pay damages, including the possibility of treble damages in a patent case if a court finds us to have willfully infringed certain intellectual property rights.. We are aware of a significant number of patents and patent applications relating to aspects of our technologies filed by, and issued to, third parties. We cannot assure you that we will ultimately prevail if any of this third-party intellectual property is asserted against us.. Our ability to compete may be adversely affected if we do not adequately protect our proprietary technologies or if we lose some of our intellectual property rights through costly litigation or administrative proceedings.. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property covering our technologies and products and potential products in the U.S. and other countries. We have adopted a strategy of seeking patent protection in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries with respect to certain of the technologies used in or relating to our products and processes. We own rights to hundreds of issued patents and filed patent applications in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. When and if issued, patents would expire at the end of their term and any patent would only provide us commercial advantage for a limited period of time, if at all. Our patent applications are directed to our enabling technologies and to our methods and products which support our business in the advanced biofuels and renewable chemicals markets. We intend to continue to apply for patents relating to our technologies, methods and products as we deem appropriate.. Only some of the patent applications that we have filed in the U.S. or in any foreign jurisdictions, and only certain of the patent applications filed by third parties in which we own rights, have been issued. A filed patent application does not guarantee a patent will issue and a patent issuing does not guarantee its validity, nor does it give us the right to practice the patented technology or commercialize the patented product. Third parties may have or obtain rights to \"blocking patents\" that could be used to prevent us from commercializing our products or practicing our technology. The scope and validity of patents and success in prosecuting patent. 35. applications involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, issuance, coverage and validity cannot be predicted with any certainty. Patents issuing from our filed applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Moreover, third parties could practice our inventions in secret and in territories where we do not have patent protection. Such third parties may then try to sell or import products made using our inventions in and into the U.S. or other territories and we may be unable to prove that such products were made using our inventions. Additional uncertainty may result from implementation of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, enacted in September 2011, as well as other potential patent reform legislation passed by the U.S. Congress and from legal precedent handed down by the Federal Circuit Court and the U.S. Supreme Court, as they determine legal issues concerning the scope, validity and construction of patent claims. Because patent applications in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publication of discoveries in the scientific literature often lags behind the actual discoveries, there is additional uncertainty as to the validity of any patents that may issue and the potential for \"blocking patents\" coming into force at some future date. Accordingly, we cannot ensure that any of our currently filed or future patent applications will result in issued patents, or even if issued, predict the scope of the claims that may issue in our and other companies' patents. Currently, one of our issued patents is being challenged in regulatory proceedings before the USPTO. These proceedings may result in the claims being amended or canceled. If the claims are amended or canceled, the scope of our patents claims may be narrowed, which may reduce the scope of protection afforded by our patent portfolio. Given that the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, we cannot ensure that (i) we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our filed applications, (ii) we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions, (iii) the proprietary technologies we develop will be patentable, (iv) any patents issued will be broad enough in scope to provide commercial advantage and prevent circumvention, and (v) competitors and other parties do not have or will not obtain patent protection that will block our development and commercialization activities.. These concerns apply equally to patents we have licensed, which may likewise be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the licensed technologies may be obstructed from commercialization by competitors' \"blocking patents.\" In addition, we generally do not control the patent prosecution and maintenance of subject matter that we license from others. Generally, the licensors are primarily or wholly responsible for the patent prosecution and maintenance activities pertaining to the patent applications and patents we license, while we may only be afforded opportunities to comment on such activities. Accordingly, we are unable to exercise the same degree of control over licensed intellectual property as we exercise over our own intellectual property and we face the risk that our licensors will not prosecute or maintain it as effectively as we would like.. In addition, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, particularly where, as here, the end products reaching the market generally do not reveal the processes used in their manufacture, and particularly in certain foreign countries where the local laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S., so we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken in obtaining intellectual property and other proprietary rights will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. If competitors are able to use our technology without our authorization, our ability to compete effectively could be adversely affected. Moreover, competitors and other parties such as universities may independently develop and obtain patents for technologies that are similar to or superior to our technologies. If that happens, the potential competitive advantages provided by our intellectual property may be adversely affected. We may then need to license these competing technologies, and we may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, which could cause material harm to our business. Accordingly, litigation may be necessary for us to assert claims of infringement, enforce patents we own or license, protect trade secrets or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the intellectual property rights of others.. Our commercial success also depends in part on not infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties, and not breaching any licenses or other agreements that we have entered into with regard to our technologies, products and business. We cannot be certain that patents have not or will not issue to third parties that could block our ability to obtain patents or to operate our business as we would like, or at all. There may be patents in some countries that, if valid, may block our ability to commercialize products in those countries if we are unsuccessful in circumventing or acquiring rights to these patents. There may also be claims in patent applications filed in some countries that, if granted and valid, may also block our ability to commercialize products or processes in these countries if we are unable to circumvent or license them.. As is commonplace in the biotechnology industries, some of our directors, employees and consultants are or have been employed at, or associated with, companies and universities that compete with us or have or will develop similar technologies and related intellectual property. While employed at these companies, these employees, directors and consultants may have been exposed to or involved in research and technology similar to the areas of research and technology in which we are engaged. Though we have not received such a complaint, we may be subject to allegations that we, our directors, employees or consultants have inadvertently or otherwise used, misappropriated or disclosed alleged trade secrets or confidential or proprietary information of those companies. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such allegations and the outcome of any such litigation would be uncertain.. Under some of our research agreements, our partners share joint rights in certain intellectual property we develop. Such provisions may limit our ability to gain commercial benefit from some of the intellectual property we develop, and may lead to costly or time-consuming disputes with parties with whom we have commercial relationships over rights to certain innovations.. 36. If any other party has filed patent applications or obtained patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference, derivation or other proceedings declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention and, thus, the right to the patents for these inventions in the U.S. These proceedings could result in substantial cost to us even if the outcome is favorable. Even if successful, such a proceeding may result in the loss of certain claims. Even successful outcomes of such proceedings could result in significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion of management time and efforts and disruption in our business. Uncertainties resulting from initiation and continuation of any patent or related litigation could harm our ability to compete.. If our biocatalysts, or the genes that code for our biocatalysts, are stolen, misappropriated or reverse engineered, others could use these biocatalysts or genes to produce competing products.. Third parties, including our contract manufacturers, customers and those involved in shipping our biocatalysts, may have custody or control of our biocatalysts. If our biocatalysts, or the genes that code for our biocatalysts, were stolen, misappropriated or reverse engineered, they could be used by other parties who may be able to reproduce these biocatalysts for their own commercial gain. If this were to occur, it would be difficult for us to discover or challenge this type of use, especially in countries with limited intellectual property protection.. During the ordinary course of business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. From time to time, we may in the ordinary course of business be named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, worker's compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damages, civil penalties and other losses of injunctive or declaratory relief. In the event that such actions or indemnities are ultimately resolved unfavorably at amounts exceeding our accrued liability, or at material amounts, the outcome could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. In addition, payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our liquidity position.. We may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the U.S. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions, and, particularly as we move forward in our partnerships with Porta, Praj, and future international partners, we may face new and increased risks and challenges in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights abroad. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to bioindustrial technologies. This could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or misappropriation of our other intellectual property rights. Proceedings to enforce our patents and other proprietary rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights in such countries may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop.. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosures of trade secrets and other proprietary information.. We rely in part on trade secret protection to protect our confidential and proprietary information and processes. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, but these measures may not be effective. We require new employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual's relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that know-how and inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. Nevertheless, these agreements may not be enforceable, our proprietary information may be disclosed, third parties could reverse engineer our biocatalysts and others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, an unauthorized breach in our information technology systems may expose our trade secrets and other proprietary information to unauthorized parties.. We have received funding from U.S. government agencies, which could negatively affect our intellectual property rights.. Some of our research has been funded by grants from U.S. government agencies. When new technologies are developed with U.S. government funding, the government obtains certain rights in any resulting patents and technical data, generally including, at a. 37. minimum, a nonexclusive license authorizing the government to use the invention or technical data for noncommercial purposes. U.S. government funding must be disclosed in any resulting patent applications, and our rights in such inventions will normally be subject to government license rights, periodic progress reporting, foreign manufacturing restrictions and march-in rights. March-in rights refer to the right of the U.S. government, under certain limited circumstances, to require us to grant a license to technology developed under a government grant to a responsible applicant or, if we refuse, to grant such a license itself. March-in rights can be triggered if the government determines that we have failed to work sufficiently towards achieving practical application of a technology or if action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations or to give preference to U.S. industry. If we breach the terms of our grants, the government may gain rights to the intellectual property developed in our related research. The government's rights in our intellectual property may lessen its commercial value, which could adversely affect our performance.. Legal and Regulatory Risks. We may face substantial delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for use of our isobutanol and hydrocarbon products in the fuels and chemicals markets, which could substantially hinder our ability to commercialize our products.. Large-scale commercialization of our isobutanol may require approvals from state and federal agencies. Before we can sell isobutanol as a fuel or as a gasoline blendstock directly to large petroleum refiners, we must receive EPA fuel certification. On March 15, 2018, the EPA published a notice for public comment on the EPA's intent to register isobutanol for blending into gasoline which would allow us to sell isobutanol as a fuel or as a gasoline blendstock directly to large petroleum refiners and would move our small business registration to a full registration (including Tier 1 EPA testing. Final approval has not yet occurred,  and there is no guarantee of receiving it.. Additionally, California requires that fuels meet both its fuel certification requirements and a separate state low-carbon fuel standard. Any delay in receiving approval will slow or prevent the commercialization of our isobutanol for fuel markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. With respect to the chemicals markets, we plan to focus on isobutanol production and sell to companies that can convert our isobutanol into other chemicals, such as isobutylene. However, should we later decide to produce these other chemicals ourselves, we may face similar requirements for EPA and other regulatory approvals. Approval, if ever granted, could be delayed for substantial amounts of time, which could significantly harm the development of our business and prevent the achievement of our goals.. Our isobutanol fermentation process utilizes a genetically modified organism which, when used in an industrial process, is considered a new chemical under the EPA's Toxic Substances Control Act (\"TSCA\"). The TSCA requires us to comply with the EPA's Microbial Commercial Activity Notice process to operate plants producing isobutanol using our biocatalysts. The TSCA's new chemicals submission policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our isobutanol production.. There are various third-party certification organizations, such as ASTM and Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., involved in standard-setting regarding the transportation, dispensing and use of liquid fuel in the U.S. and abroad. These organizations may change the current standards and additional requirements may be enacted that could prevent or delay approval of our products. The process of seeking required approvals and the continuing need for compliance with applicable standards may require the expenditure of substantial resources, and there is no guarantee that we will satisfy these standards in a timely manner, if ever.. In addition, to Retrofit or otherwise modify ethanol facilities and operate the Retrofitted and modified plants to produce isobutanol, we will need to obtain and comply with a number of permit requirements. As a condition to granting necessary permits, regulators may make demands that could increase our Retrofit, modification or operations costs, and permit conditions could also restrict or limit the extent of our operations, which could delay or prevent our commercial production of isobutanol. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to meet all regulatory requirements or obtain and comply with all necessary permits to complete our planned ethanol plant Retrofits, and failure to satisfy these requirements in a timely manner, or at all, could have a substantial negative effect on our performance.. Jet fuels must meet various statutory and regulatory requirements before they may be used in commercial aviation, including regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration (\"FAA\") and specifications determined by ASTM International. Currently, our renewable jet fuel meets the FAA regulations and the ASTM International specifications.  However, changes to applicable regulations and specifications.in the future might have a material adverse effect on our business if such changes resulted in our renewable jet fuel not being eligible for use in commercial aviation.. 38. Our isobutanol and hydrocarbon products may encounter physical or regulatory issues, which could limit its usefulness as a gasoline blendstock.. In the gasoline blendstock market, isobutanol can be used in conjunction with, or as a substitute for, ethanol and other widely used fuel oxygenates, and we believe our isobutanol will be physically compatible with typical gasoline engines. However, there is a risk that under actual engine conditions, isobutanol will face significant limitations, making it unsuitable for use in high percentage gasoline blends. Additionally, current regulations limit gasoline blends to low percentages of isobutanol, and also limit combination isobutanol-ethanol blends. Government agencies may maintain or even increase the restrictions on isobutanol gasoline blends. As we believe that the potential to use isobutanol in higher percentage blends than is feasible for ethanol will be an important factor in successfully marketing isobutanol to refiners, a low blend wall could significantly limit commercialization of isobutanol as a gasoline blendstock.. We may be required to obtain additional regulatory approvals for use of our iDGs\231 as animal feed, which could delay our ability to sell iDGs\231 increasing our net cost of production and harming our operating results.. Many of the ethanol plants we initially plan to Retrofit use dry-milled corn as a feedstock. We plan to sell, as animal feed, the iDGs\231 left as a co-product of fermenting isobutanol from dry-milled corn. We believe that this will enable us to offset a significant portion of the expense of purchasing corn for fermentation. We are currently approved to sell iDGs\231 as animal feed through the self-assessed Generally Regarded as Safe (\"GRAS\") process of the U.S. Federal Drug Administration (the \"FDA\") via third party scientific review.  In order to improve the value of our iDGs\231, we are working with The Association of American Feed Control Officials (\"AAFCO\") to establish a formal definition for our iDGs\231 as well as clearance for the materials into animal feed.  We believe obtaining AAFCO approval will increase the value of our iDGs\231 by offering customers of our iDGs\231 further assurance of the safety of our iDGs\231. If we make certain changes in our biocatalyst whereby we can no longer rely on our GRAS process, we would be required to obtain FDA approval for marketing our iDGs\231.  While we believe we can rely on the GRAS process, as we update our biocatalysts to increase isobutanol production, for further customer assurance, we also intend to pursue approval upon a completed biocatalyst from the Center for Veterinary Medicine of the FDA.  FDA testing and approval can take a significant amount of time, and there is no guarantee that we will ever receive such approval. While we have sold initial quantities of our iDGs TM  from the Luverne Facility, if FDA or AAFCO approval is delayed or never obtained, or if we are unable to secure market acceptance for our iDGs\231, our net cost of production will increase, which may hurt our operating results.. Reductions or changes to existing regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers, all of which may significantly reduce demand for biofuels or our ability to supply isobutanol.. The market for biofuels is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies. For example, in 2007, the U.S. Congress passed an alternative fuels mandate that required nearly 14 billion gallons of liquid transportation fuels sold in 2011 to come from alternative sources, including biofuels, a mandate that grows to 36 billion gallons by 2022. Of this amount, a minimum of 21 billion gallons must be advanced biofuels as defined by the U.S. Congress. In the U.S., and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future. Any reduction in mandated requirements for fuel alternatives and additives to gasoline may cause the demand for biofuels to decline and deter investment in the research and development of biofuels. For example, the Energy and Commerce Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives has undertaken an assessment of the Renewable Fuel Standard program and has published five white papers on the subject during the current congressional period. The EPA has also said that it plans to assess the E10 blendwall and current infrastructure and market-based limitations to the consumption of ethanol in gasoline-ethanol blends above E10. In particular, the EPA is proposing to cut the volume requirements for advanced biofuels by more than 40% when compared to the requirements currently written into the statute. This proposal has created significant concerns throughout the biofuels industry, many of which were voiced by the biofuels industry during the public comment period. This type of legislative activity can create concern in the marketplace about the long-term sustainability of governmental policies. The absence of tax credits, subsidies and other incentives in the U.S. and foreign markets for biofuels, or any inability of our customers to access such credits, subsidies and incentives, may adversely affect demand for our products, which would adversely affect our business. The resulting market uncertainty regarding current and future standards and policies may also affect our ability to develop new renewable products or to license our technologies to third parties and to sell products to our end customers.. Concerns associated with biofuels, including land usage, national security interests and food crop usage, continue to receive legislative, industry and public attention. This attention could result in future legislation, regulation and/or administrative action that could adversely affect our business. Any inability to address these requirements and any regulatory or policy changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, like the ethanol facilities that we Retrofit, our isobutanol plants will emit greenhouse gases. Any changes in state or federal emissions regulations, including the passage of cap-and-trade legislation or a carbon tax, could limit our production of. 39. isobutanol and iDGs\231 and increase our operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The recent U.S. elections could lead to changes in federal or state laws and regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. We use hazardous materials in our business and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could be time consuming and costly and could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our research and development processes involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemical, radioactive and biological materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste. We cannot eliminate entirely the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of, and human exposure to, these materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Although we believe that our activities conform in all material respects with environmental laws, there can be no assurance that violations of environmental, health and safety laws will not occur in the future as a result of human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and the failure to comply with past, present, or future laws could result in the imposition of fines, third-party property damage, product liability and personal injury claims, investigation and remediation costs, the suspension of production or a cessation of operations, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could impair our research, development or production efforts and harm our business.. Our expanded international activities may increase our exposure to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, tax and other laws and regulations.. In the course of our relationships with Praj, Porta and future international partners, we may become subject to certain foreign tax, environmental, and health and safety regulations that did not previously apply to us or our products. Such regulations may be unclear, not consistently applied and subject to sudden change.  Implementation of compliance policies could result in additional operating costs, and our failure to comply with such laws, even inadvertently, could result in significant fines and/or penalties.. Additionally, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (\"Anti-Corruption Laws\") prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors or agents. Even with implementation of policies, training and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors or agents may violate our policies. Our international partnerships may significantly increase our exposure to potential liability. Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation.. 40. Risks Related to Owning Our Securities.. We may not be able to comply with all applicable listing requirements or standards of the Nasdaq Capital Market and Nasdaq could delist our common stock.. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements and standards.. On June 21, 2017, we received a deficiency letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of the Nasdaq Stock Market, notifying us that, for the prior 30 consecutive business days, the closing bid price of our common stock was not maintained at the minimum required closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share as required for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rules, we had an initial compliance period of 180 calendar days, to regain compliance with this requirement. On December 20. 2017, the Nasdaq Stock Market granted us an additional 180 calendar days, or until June 18, 2018, to regain compliance. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock must be $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days at any time before June 18, 2018. The Nasdaq determination to grant the second compliance period was based on our meeting of the continued listing requirement for market value of publicly held shares and all other applicable requirements for initial listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, with the exception of the bid price requirement, and our written notice of our intention to cure the deficiency during the second compliance period by effecting a reverse stock split, if necessary.. We cannot provide any assurance that our stock price will recover within the permitted grace period. In the event that our common stock is not eligible for quotation on another market or exchange, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market or on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. In such event, it could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate price quotations for, our common stock, and there would likely be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. In addition, it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital if we are not listed on a major exchange.. Furthermore, it would be a fundamental change under the indenture governing our 2020 Notes if our common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange. In such circumstance we would be required to offer to repurchase the 2020 Notes at 100% of principal plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the repurchase date. We would also be required to pay the holders of the 2020 Notes a fundamental change make-whole payment equal to the aggregate amount of interest that would have otherwise been payable on such 2020 Notes, to, but not including, the maturity date of such 2020 Notes.. Future issuances of our common stock or instruments convertible or exercisable into our common stock, including in connection with conversions of 2020 Notes or exercises of warrants, may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock and cause dilution to our existing stockholders.. In order to fund our business over the past few years, we have raised capital by issuing common stock and warrants in underwritten public offerings because no other reasonable sources of capital were available.  These underwritten public offerings of common stock and warrants have materially and adversely affected the prevailing market prices of our common stock and caused significant dilution to our stockholders.  We anticipate that for the foreseeable future we will continue to raise capital through these dilutive underwritten public offerings of common stock and warrants.. We may obtain additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in the near future, subject to certain limitations in the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our secured indebtedness with Whitebox. If we issue additional shares of common stock or instruments convertible into common stock, it may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, the conversion of some or all of the 2020 Notes and/or the exercise of some or all of the warrants may dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders, and any sales in the public market of any of our common stock issuable upon such conversion or exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Additionally, under the terms of certain warrants in the event that a warrant is exercised at a time when we do not have an effective registration statement covering the underlying shares of common stock on file with the SEC, such warrant may be net exercised, which will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders without any corresponding benefit of a cash payment for the exercise price of such warrant.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $16.7 million in outstanding 2020 Notes, which were convertible into 28.8 million shares of our common stock at the conversion rate in effect on December 31, 2017. The 28.8 million shares includes 6.1 million shares of common stock that may be issuable from time to time in the event that we pay a portion of the interest on the 2020 Notes in kind or elects to pay make-whole payments due upon conversion of the 2020 Notes, if any, in shares of common stock. The anticipated conversion of the outstanding 2020 Notes (including any interest that is paid in kind) into shares of our common stock could depress the trading price of our common stock. In addition, subject to certain restrictions, we have the option to issue common. 41. stock to any converting holder in lieu of making any required make-whole payment in cash. If we elect to issue our common stock for such payment, it will be at the same conversion rate that is applicable to conversions of the principal amount of the 2020 Notes. If we elect to issue additional shares of our common stock for such payments, this may cause significant additional dilution to our existing stockholders.. Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our securities could suffer a decline in value.. The market price of shares of our common stock has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations.. We cannot predict whether the price of our common stock will rise or fall. A variety of factors may have a significant effect on our stock price, including:. <U+25CF>  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results;. <U+25CF>  the position of our cash and cash equivalents;. <U+25CF>  actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors;. <U+25CF>  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our competitors' operating results or changes in their growth rate;. <U+25CF>  announcements of technological innovations by us, our partners or our competitors;. <U+25CF>  announcements by us, our partners or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. <U+25CF>  the entry into, modification or termination of licensing arrangements, marketing arrangements, and/or research, development, commercialization, supply, off-take or distribution arrangements;. <U+25CF>  our ability to consistently produce commercial quantities of isobutanol at the Luverne Facility and ramp up production to nameplate capacity;. <U+25CF>  additions or losses of customers or partners;. <U+25CF>  our ability to obtain certain regulatory approvals for the use of our isobutanol in various fuels and chemicals markets;. <U+25CF>  commodity prices, including oil, ethanol and corn prices;. <U+25CF>  additions or departures of key management or scientific personnel;. <U+25CF>  competition from existing products or new products that may emerge;. <U+25CF>  issuance of new or updated research reports by securities or industry analysts;. <U+25CF>  fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;. <U+25CF>  litigation involving us, our general industry or both;. <U+25CF>  disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;. <U+25CF>  announcements or expectations of additional financing efforts or the pursuit of strategic alternatives;. <U+25CF>  changes in existing laws, regulations and policies applicable to our business and products, including the Renewable Fuel Standard program, and the adoption of or failure to adopt carbon emissions regulation;. <U+25CF>  sales of our common stock or equity-linked securities, such as warrants, by us or our stockholders;. <U+25CF>  share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares;. <U+25CF>  general market conditions in our industry; and. <U+25CF>  general economic and market conditions.. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of shares of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance, and cause the value of your investment to decline. Because our 2020 Notes are convertible into our common stock and our warrants are exercisable into our common stock, volatility or a reduction in the market price of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our 2020 Notes and our warrants. Holders who receive common stock upon exercise of the warrants will also be subject to the risk of volatility and a. 42. reduction in the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of our 2020 Notes and our outstanding warrants may encourage short selling in our common stock by market participants because the conversion of the 2020 Notes or exercise of the warrants could depress the price of our common stock.. Additionally, in the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation or other derivative shareholder lawsuits. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business regardless of the outcome.. The price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of common stock by investors who view our 2020 Notes or warrants as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage activity involving our common stock. The hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading prices of the warrants, or any common stock that holders receive upon exercise of the warrants.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or securities linked to our common stock, such as our 2020 Notes and warrants, in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that such sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock.. In addition, certain holders of our outstanding common stock (including shares of our common stock issuable upon the conversion of certain 2020 Notes or upon exercise of certain outstanding warrants) have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares and to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline.. Our financial condition and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors relating to our business that may contribute to these fluctuations are described elsewhere in this report and other reports that we have filed with the SEC. Accordingly, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future operating performance.. The indebtedness under our 2020 Notes are secured by substantially all of our assets. As a result of these security interests, such assets would only be available to satisfy claims of our general creditors or to holders of our equity securities if we were to become insolvent to the extent the value of such assets exceeded the amount of our indebtedness and other obligations.. Indebtedness under our 2020 Notes is secured by a first lien, on substantially all of our assets. Accordingly, if an event of default were to occur under our credit facilities, holders of our 2020 Notes would have a priority right to our assets, to the exclusion of our general creditors, in the event of our bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, or reorganization. In that event, our assets would first be used to repay in full all indebtedness and other obligations secured by them, resulting in all or a portion of our assets being unavailable to satisfy the claims of our unsecured indebtedness. Only after satisfying the claims of our unsecured creditors and our subsidiaries' unsecured creditors would any amount be available for distribution to holders of our equity securities. The terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our secured indebtedness with Whitebox and the indenture governing the 2020 Notes, may restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions.. The terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our secured indebtedness with Whitebox and the indenture governing the 2020 Notes, may prohibit us from engaging in certain actions, including disposing of certain assets, granting or otherwise allowing the imposition of a lien against certain assets, incurring certain kinds of additional indebtedness, acquiring or merging with other entities, or making dividends and other restricted payments unless we receive the prior approval of the requisite lenders or the requisite holders of the 2020 Notes. If we are unable to obtain such approval, we could be prohibited from engaging in transactions which could be beneficial to our business and our stockholders or could be forced to repay such indebtedness in full.. The indenture governing the 2020 Notes may prohibit us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions and if a fundamental change of the Company occurs prior to the maturity date of the 2020 Notes, holders of the 2020 Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their 2020 Notes and, in certain circumstances, to pay the holders of 2020 Notes a make-whole payment equal to the aggregate amount of interest that would have been payable on such 2020 Notes from the repurchase date through the maturity date of such 2020 Notes.. With respect to the 2020 Notes, the Company has the right to increase the conversion rate of the 2020 Notes by any amount for a period of at least 20 business days if the Company's board of directors. 43. determines that such increase would be in the Company's best interest. In addition, if a fundamental transaction occurs, some holders of warrants will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase the unexercised portion of such warrants for an amount in cash equal to the value of the warrants, as determined in accordance with the Black Scholes option pricing model and the terms of the warrants. These and other provisions could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us, even where the acquisition could be beneficial to you.. The conversion or exercise prices, as applicable, of the 2020 Notes and warrants can fluctuate under certain circumstances which, if triggered, can result in potentially material further dilution to our stockholders.. The conversion price of the 2020 Notes can fluctuate in certain circumstances, including in the event that there is a dividend or distribution paid on shares of our common stock or a subdivision, combination or reclassification of our common stock. In such instances, the conversion price of the 2020 Notes can fluctuate materially lower than the current conversion price of $0.7359 per share or 1.3589 shares per $1.00 of principal.. The number of shares of common stock for which certain of our warrants, are exercisable may be adjusted in the event that we undertake certain stock dividends, splits, combinations, distributions, and the price at which such shares of common stock may be purchased upon exercise of the warrants may be adjusted in the event that we undertake certain issuances of common stock or convertible securities at prices lower than the then-current exercise price for the warrants. These provisions could result in substantial dilution to investors in our common stock.. The interest rates of the 2020 Notes can fluctuate under certain circumstances which, if triggered, can result in potentially material further dilution to our stockholders.. The interest rates of the 2020 Notes can fluctuate in certain circumstances, including in the event of a default of our obligations under the indenture governing the 2020 Notes or the registration rights agreements, if any, entered into in connection with such notes. In addition, the interest on the 2020 Notes may be payable in-kind. As the Company may pay a portion of the interest on the 2020 Notes in kind, by either increasing the principal amount of the outstanding 2020 Notes or issuing additional 2020 Notes, any increase to the interest rate applicable to the 2020 Notes could result in additional dilution to investors in our common stock.. We may not have the ability to pay interest on the 2020 Notes or to repurchase or redeem the 2020 Notes.. If a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the 2020 Notes) occurs, holders of the 2020 Notes may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of their 2020 Notes. In such circumstance we would be required to offer to repurchase the 2020 Notes at 100% of principal plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the repurchase date. We would also be required to pay the holders of the 2020 Notes a fundamental change make-whole payment equal to the aggregate amount of interest that would have otherwise been payable on such notes to, but not including, the maturity date of such notes. If we elect to redeem the 2020 Notes prior to their maturity, the redemption price of any 2020 Notes redeemed by us will be paid for in cash. Our ability to pay the interest on the 2020 Notes, to repurchase or redeem the 2020 Notes, to refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain sufficient cash reserves or that our business will generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay the interest on the 2020 Notes, to repurchase or redeem the 2020 Notes or to pay any cash amounts that may become due upon conversion of the 2020 Notes, or that our cash needs will not increase. In addition, any such repurchase or redemption of the 2020 Notes, even if such action would be in our best interests, may result in a default under the agreements governing our indebtedness unless we are able to obtain the applicable lender's consent prior to the taking of such action.. Our failure to repurchase tendered 2020 Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture governing such notes would constitute a default under such notes and would permit holders of such notes to accelerate our obligations under such notes. Such default may also lead to a default under the agreements governing any of our current and future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness and repurchase the 2020 Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our indebtedness and meet our other needs, we may have to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, obtain additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, reduce expenditures or sell assets that we deem necessary to our business. Our ability to take some or all of these actions will be subject to certain limitations in the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our secured indebtedness with Whitebox, and we cannot assure you that any of these measures would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on favorable terms, or at all. The inability to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Additionally, if we were to conduct a public or private offering of securities, any new offering would be likely to dilute our stockholders' equity ownership.. 44. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies.. We may, subject to certain limitations in the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our secured indebtedness with Whitebox, seek additional capital through a combination of public and private equity offerings, debt financings, strategic partnerships and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale or issuance of equity, warrants or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders will be diluted, and the terms of such securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect their rights as a stockholder. If we raise capital through debt financing, it may involve agreements that include covenants further limiting or restricting our ability to take certain actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships or licensing agreements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our development and commercialization efforts.. The issuance of share-based payment awards under our stock incentive plan may cause dilution to our existing stockholders and may affect the market price of our common stock.. We have used, and in the future we may continue to use, stock options, stock grants and other equity-based incentives, either pursuant to the 2010 Plan, or outside of the 2010 Plan, to provide motivation and compensation to our directors, officers, employees and key independent consultants. The award of any such incentives will result in an immediate and potentially substantial dilution to our existing shareholders and could result in a decline in the value of our stock price.. As of December 31, 2017, there were 46,431 shares subject to outstanding options that are or will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by any applicable vesting requirements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. The exercise of these options and the sale of the underlying shares of common stock and the sale of stock issued pursuant to stock grants may have an adverse effect upon the price of our common stock, which in turn may have an adverse effect upon the trading price of the warrants.. As of December 31, 2017, there were 133,607 shares of common stock available for future grant under our 2010 Plan and 3,802 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance and once vested.. We may pay vendors in stock as consideration for their services; this may result in additional costs and may cause dilution to our existing stockholders.. In order for us to preserve our cash resources, we may in the future pay vendors, including technology partners, in shares, warrants or options to purchase shares of our common stock rather than cash. Payments for services in stock may materially and adversely affect our stockholders by diluting the value of outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, in situations where we agree to register the shares issued to a vendor, this will generally cause us to incur additional expenses associated with such registration.. Except as set forth in the applicable warrant, holders of our warrants will have no rights as common stockholders until such holders exercise their warrants and acquire our common stock.. Until you acquire shares of our common stock upon exercise of your warrants, you will have no rights with respect to the shares of our common stock underlying such warrants, except for those rights set forth in the applicable warrant. Upon exercise of your warrants, you will be entitled to exercise the rights of a common stockholder only as to matters for which the record date occurs after the exercise date.. The exercise prices for our warrants will not be adjusted for all dilutive events.. The exercise prices of certain warrants are subject to adjustment for certain events, including the issuance of stock dividends on our common stock and, in certain instances, the issuance of our common stock at a price per share less than the exercise price of such warrants. However, the exercise prices will not be adjusted for other events, including the issuance of certain rights, options or warrants, distributions of capital stock, indebtedness, or assets and cash dividends. Accordingly, an event that adversely affects the value of the warrants may occur, and that event may not result in an adjustment to the exercise prices.. 45. We may not be permitted by the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our secured indebtedness with Whitebox, to repurchase our warrants, and we may not have the ability to do so.. Under certain circumstances, if a \"fundamental transaction\" or \"extraordinary transaction\" (as such terms are defined in our various warrants) occurs, holders of our warrants may require us to repurchase, for cash, the remaining unexercised portion of such warrants for an amount of cash equal to the value of the warrant as determined in accordance with the Black Scholes option pricing model and the terms of the warrants. Our ability to repurchase the warrants depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain sufficient cash reserves or that our business will generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to repurchase the warrants. In addition, any such repurchase of the warrants may result in a default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our secured indebtedness with Whitebox, unless we are able to obtain such lender's consent prior to the taking of such action. If we were unable to obtain such consent, compliance with the terms of the warrants would trigger an event of default under such agreements.. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment.. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock at any time in the foreseeable future. The future payment of dividends directly depends upon our future earnings, capital requirements, financial requirements and other factors that our board of directors will consider. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur, will provide a return to stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business.. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or change their opinion of our stock, our stock price would likely decline which in turn would likely cause a decline in the value of the warrants and 2020 Notes. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of the Company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price and the price of the warrants to decline or the trading volume of such securities to decline.. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law that could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company. Among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide for a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered three-year terms, provide that all stockholder action must be effected at a duly called meeting of the stockholders and not by a consent in writing, and further provide that only our board of directors may call a special meeting of the stockholders. These provisions may also frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management team. Furthermore, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits, with some exceptions, stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Finally, our charter documents establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. Although we believe these provisions together provide an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer to acquire the Company may be considered beneficial by some stockholders."
