[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves substantial risks. In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive. You should also refer to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, including Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. The material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting have not been remediated. If we are unable to remediate these material weaknesses and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to generate timely and accurate financial statements.. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. We previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015 relating to resources and the timeliness of our financial statement close process, as reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 (the \"2015 Form 10-K\"). This material weakness has not been remediated.. In addition, we identified additional material weaknesses during and after the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 as reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 (the \"2016 Form 10-K\") which have not been remediated. These related to our entity level control environment, financial statement close and reporting process, intercompany process, business combination, significant and unusual non-routine transactions, inventory, content library, internally developed software, long lived assets, goodwill impairment, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, revenue processes, license fee accruals, income taxes, payroll, stock-based compensation, treasury, and information technology processes.. We have also identified control deficiencies in our maritime and land operations (i.e., our acquired EMC business), which was scoped out of our management's annual assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for our 2016 Form 10-K, but which were included in our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for this Form 10-K. We believe these control deficiencies constitute material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting consistent with those that existed in our control environment as of December 31, 2016 and continue to exist at December 31, 2017.. We believe these material weaknesses are the result of the growth of our Company through mergers and acquisition (\"M&A\"), insufficient M&A integration, insufficient automation in our financial reporting environment, increased complexity of our business transactions, increased decentralization of our operations. In retrospect, we have concluded that the above-described changes to our business were not adequately supported by the hiring of additional personnel with sufficient, specific expertise in accounting, finance and information technology. Moreover, we experienced significant turnover in our executive management during 2016 and 2017. The material weaknesses continue to exist at December 31, 2017. We may identify additional deficiencies in 2018 and in future periods that constitute material weaknesses as we continue to remediate our existing material weaknesses.  For additional information about the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, see Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.. We will continue to expend significant financial and information-technology resources to remediate these material weaknesses and deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting as well as to perform additional procedures to compensate for our material weaknesses and deficiencies in order to complete our financial statement closing. The process of remediating these material weaknesses and deficiencies will divert the attention of management and other resources from our ongoing business, and this remediation process, if we are successful at all, may require several years to complete.. 14. Table of Contents. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to produce financial statements in a timely manner or without material misstatements. The material weaknesses and deficiencies that we have identified may impair our ability to timely identify and forecast certain business trends and certain aspects of our financial performance which could affect our operational performance. Our failure to timely produce financial statements may also constitute defaults or give rise to penalties under our debt instruments if we are unable to comply with our reporting covenants. Nasdaq could also delist our common stock if we are delinquent in our SEC filings, thereby impairing the trading liquidity of our common stock. A delisting would trigger the repurchase option under the indenture governing our convertible notes (as further described under \"Risks Relating to our Common Stock\") and have an adverse impact on the trading volume, liquidity and market price of our common stock. In addition, if we are unable to remediate our material weaknesses and deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, investors, customers, rating agencies, lenders or others may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our securities could decline, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities or litigation that results in substantial fines, penalties or liabilities and we may be unable to raise funds from debt and equity investors on terms favorable to us, if at all.. Our management has concluded that our disclosure controls are ineffective due to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could continue to be impaired, and the market price of our securities may be negatively affected.. Our management has historically concluded that we do not maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures due to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the year ended December 31, 2017, our management assessed our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that they were not effective due to the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting discussed in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.. We will continue to expend significant financial and information-technology resources to remediate these material weaknesses. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to produce timely and accurate financial statements. If that were to happen, investors, customers, rating agencies, lenders or others may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our securities could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities or litigation that results in substantial fines, penalties or liabilities.. We have expended significant time and resources and expect to expend additional time and resources in connection with our efforts to remediate our material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which divert management's attention from our business, reduce our liquidity and have an adverse effect on our financial performance.. We have expended significant time and resources and expect to expend additional time and resources in connection with our efforts to remediate our material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. The time spent on remediation diverts our management's attention from focusing on operating and growing our business. In addition, the costs of remediation reduce our liquidity and have an adverse effect on our financial performance, and restructuring our business could constrain our liquidity further, requiring us to seek amendments or waivers to our credit agreement or obtain additional financing by issuing debt or equity securities.. If we issue equity, warrants or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds (such as occurred with our recent Searchlight transactions described in Note 19. Subsequent Events),  our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we incur additional debt, it may increase our leverage relative to our earnings or to our equity capitalization, requiring us to pay additional interest expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all.. We have undertaken restructuring activities in the past and we may determine to undertake additional restructuring activities in the future. These actions may not improve our financial position, and may ultimately prove detrimental to our operations and sales.. Our ability to reduce operating expenses is dependent upon the nature of the actions we take to reduce expenses and our subsequent ability to implement those actions and realize expected cost savings. We may need to take additional restructuring actions, such as eliminating or consolidating certain of our operations, reducing our headcount, or eliminating certain positions for a variety of reasons, including deterioration in market conditions or significant declines in demand for our products and services. Failure to successfully implement such restructuring activities could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products and services, and could increase the cost of our products and services versus our projections, each of which could adversely. 15. Table of Contents. impact our operating results. Further, expenses and cost inefficiencies associated with our restructuring activities, including severance costs and the loss of trained employees with knowledge of our business and operations, could exceed our expectations and negatively impact our financial results.. The implementation by us of a new revenue recognition standard in 2018 (ASC 606) and a new leasing standard in 2019 (ASC 842) require substantial preparation and expenditures, and our failure to properly implement these standards in a timely manner could result in inaccurate revenue recognition and inappropriate disclosures and cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations.. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issued revenue recognition guidance under ASC 606, which is effective for our interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Under this ASC 606 guidance, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. The new guidance also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue that is recognized.. In order to be able to comply with the requirements of ASC 606 beginning in the first quarter of 2018, we needed to update and enhance our processes and our internal controls over financial reporting. This has required, and will continue to require, additional investments by us, and may require incremental resources and system configurations that could increase our operating costs in future periods. If we are not able to properly implement ASC 606 in a timely manner, the revenue that we recognize and the related disclosures that we provide under ASC 606 may not be complete or accurate, and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations in a timely manner, which could result in, among other things, regulatory discipline, failure to satisfy the requirements of our debt instruments and adverse movements in our stock price.. In February 2016, the FASB also issued new lease accounting guidance under ASC 842 requiring lease assets and lease liabilities to be recognized on the balance sheet and disclosure of key information about leasing arrangements. In order to be able to comply with the requirements of the new guidance we need to invest significant effort in analyzing the existing lease arrangements and assessing the appropriate treatment. This may require incremental resources and could increase operating costs in future periods. If we are not able to timely implement the new guidance could result in inaccurate or incomplete presentation of our lease assets and liabilities.. Our business is dependent on the travel industry and the competitive nature of that industry makes our business sensitive to domestic and international economic conditions.. Our business is directly affected by the number of passengers flying on commercial airlines and traveling on cruise ships, the financial condition of these airlines and cruise lines and the general availability of travel and related economic conditions around the world. If demand for air or maritime travel declines, the number of aircraft and flights shrink or the travel industry is severely disrupted, the number of passengers available to use our Connectivity and Media & Content offerings will be reduced, which will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and prospects. High unemployment rates, reduced consumer and business spending, recessionary conditions in the United States or Europe and terrorism are among the general economic and social conditions that adversely affect the travel and mobility markets. A general reduction or shift in discretionary spending can result in decreased demand for leisure and business travel and lead to a reduction in the number of airline flights or cruise lines offered, the number of passengers flying or taking cruises and the willingness of airlines and cruise lines to commit to spending funds on items such as our Connectivity and Media & Content offerings.. Each of our airline and maritime customers operates in an intensely competitive environment and constantly faces pressure for on-board connectivity and content offerings and pricing of all aspects of air and maritime travel. These competitive circumstances could cause one or more of our customers to reduce expenditures on passenger services, including the deployment of our Connectivity and Media & Content offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and financial condition.. In addition, instability and changes in economic and political conditions across the globe, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts are among the global risks that may impact our business and our plans for expansion. Our operations and performance are sensitive to fluctuations in general economic conditions, both in the U.S. and globally.. A future act or threat of terrorism or other events could result in a prohibition on the use of Wi-Fi enabled devices on aircraft and maritime vessels.. 16. Table of Contents. A future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or other airline or maritime accidents could have an adverse effect on the travel industry. In the event of a terrorist attack, terrorist threat or other accident, the industry could experience significantly reduced passenger demand. The U.S. federal government could respond to such events by prohibiting the use of Wi-Fi enabled devices on aircraft and maritime vessels, which would eliminate demand for our equipment and services. As an example, the U.S. and U.K. governments passed legislation in 2017 temporarily banning laptops, tablets and other portable electronic devices as carry-on devices on aircraft vessels traveling from several Muslim-majority countries. Even though the bans have been lifted, they remain potential responses to acts of terrorism and similar bans could adversely affect our business. In addition, any association or perceived association between our equipment or services and such attacks or accidents would likely have an adverse effect on demand for our equipment and services.. In a number of countries where we operate our Connectivity segment, we are subject to increased risk of disruption to our business due to terrorist acts, conflicts, wars, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, power outages, pandemics or other public health crises and environmental incidents, wherever located around the world. The potential for future terrorist attacks and natural disasters, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks and natural disasters or perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts or wars may create economic and political uncertainties. Heightened geopolitical risk, most notably in Africa and the Middle East, could materially adversely affect our Connectivity segment.. We may be unable to renew agreements with existing customers or attract new customers on favorable terms or at all.. A number of factors may adversely impact our ability to retain existing customers and partners and attract new and repeat customers, including dissatisfaction with our services or its consistency, our pricing, the availability of our services, actual or perceived security risks and dissatisfaction with the features of our equipment or services. Additionally, the terms of any future agreements with existing or new customers may be less favorable than our current agreements. We may ultimately fail in entering into agreements with additional customers on competitive terms, and that failure could harm our results of operations due to, among other factors, a diversion of resources, the actual costs of pursuing these opportunities and the inability to deploy committed satellite transponder space segments to additional customers. To the extent that we are unable to secure new customers or that any of our future agreements with existing or new customers are not as favorable as our existing arrangements, our growth and financial prospects would be materially and adversely affected.. Our customers may be unable to pay us for our services.. There is customer credit risk in the aviation and maritime industries in which we operate. Our customers include some companies that may, from time to time, encounter financial difficulties. If a customer's financial difficulties become severe, the customer may be unwilling or unable to pay our invoices in the ordinary course of business, which could adversely affect collections of both our accounts receivable balance and unbilled services. We have experienced bankruptcies by our customers in the past, and we have not been able to recover the outstanding amounts owed to us.  The bankruptcy of a customer with a substantial account balance owed to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if a customer declares bankruptcy after paying us certain invoices, a court may determine that we are not properly entitled to that payment and may require repayment of some or all of the amount we received, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For example, during 2017, two of our Media & Content clients, Air Berlin and Alitalia, entered into bankruptcy proceedings, and as a result we may be unable to recover the outstanding amounts that they owe to us.. Failing to retain key members of senior management could harm our business.. Our business depends on the continued service and performance of our senior management team. Such individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to our segments and their operations. As a result, if any of these individuals were to leave, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors. In addition, the loss of key members of senior management, as well as other key personnel, could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business.  Furthermore, we may experience a loss of productivity while the new members of senior management obtain the necessary training and expertise to integrate into our business. In early 2017, we had turnover in a substantial number of our senior management positions, including our chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer and chief accounting officer. In addition, in early 2018, we appointed a new CEO (who was formerly our EVP, Connectivity) and EVP & Chief Strategy Officer (who was formerly our EVP, Media & Content); and appointed our former CEO as Executive Chairman of the Company.  The process of transitioning these and other successor senior managers into their respective roles will require significant time and financial resources, and the transition may not ultimately be successful.. 17. Table of Contents. We may fail to recruit, train and retain the highly skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive and execute the growth strategy of our business.. Our business depends on the continued service and performance of key technical personnel. Such individuals have acquired specialized technical knowledge and skills with respect to our business and operations. As a result, if any of these individuals were to leave, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss of productivity. In addition, much of our key technology and systems are custom-made for our business by our personnel. The loss of key technical personnel could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business.. The structure of our investment in the WMS joint venture subjects us to risks that may limit our anticipated cash distributions from such investment or prevent us from receiving its anticipated benefits.. We own a 49% equity interest in WMS, a provider of global cellular roaming services to off - shore vessels. WMS's managing member owns a 51% equity interest in the WMS joint venture, has the right to nominate three of WMS's five voting board members and controls the day-to-day operations of WMS. WMS's profits and losses for any fiscal year are allocated between our joint-venture partner and the Company in proportion to percentage interests owned, after giving effect to any applicable special allocations. The WMS joint venture operating agreement provides for annual cash distributions to us and our joint-venture partner, but those distributions are subject to reduction for certain expenses and other items relating to WMS's operations, including capital expenditures, as determined by WMS's board (which we do not control). As a result, we may not receive all or part of our anticipated cash distributions in any period for reasons beyond our control.. In addition, our investment in WMS is further subject to various risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These risks include, but are not limited to:. • Our interests could diverge from our joint-venture partner's interests or we may not agree with our joint-venture partner on ongoing activities or on the amount, timing or nature of further investments in WMS;. • WMS profits and cash flows may prove inadequate to fund cash dividends or other distributions to us, or those amounts may be subject to reduction as noted above;. • The carrying value of our interest in WMS could exceed the fair value requiring the recognition of additional impairment of the investment value;. • Our control over the operations of and other decisions relating to WMS is limited;. • Due to differing business models or long term business goals, our joint-venture partner may decide not to fund capital investments in WMS, impairing the value of the WMS joint venture;. • We may lose the rights to technology or products being developed by WMS, including if our joint-venture partner is acquired by another company, or experiences financial or other losses;. • Many of the contractors on which WMS relies are with our joint-venture partner, and \"seconded\" to WMS from our joint-venture partner, such that WMS relies on these contractors, personnel and other resources provided to it by our joint-venture partner; and. • We may experience difficulties or delays in collecting amounts due to us from WMS.. We are subject to a variety of complex U.S. and foreign tax laws and regimes as a result of our global footprint, and changes in those laws-or our failure to properly interpret them-may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We have numerous offices on six continents, and we provide our products and services globally. As a result, we are subject to a variety of complex U.S. and foreign tax laws and regimes, and changes in those laws and regimes-and our failure to properly conduct our operations in compliance with them-could be costly and expose us to fines, penalties or tax obligations that we did not anticipate. This could occur due to, among other things, unclear or unsettled tax laws, lack of clarity as to whether we have \"permanent establishment\" exposure, intercompany charges, value-added tax and income tax-liability in some countries where we conduct operations. Our failure to comply with any of these laws and regimes, or increased enforcement activity by tax regulators, could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows.. 18. Table of Contents. In addition, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), enacted in December 2017, has resulted in significant changes in the U.S. corporate income tax regime by, among other things, lowering the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, eliminating or reducing certain deductions and credits, implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Guidance and interpretation of the Tax Act is evolving, and compliance may require significant additional effort, collection of data not regularly or historically produced within the Company, the use of provisional estimates, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for the Tax Act.. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to make claims for investment tax credits in Canada.. Our Canadian subsidiary, DTI Software, makes claims for currently available tax credits in Canada in the course of its development of games and applications in Canada, including tax credits that support multimedia, e-commerce and research and development in Canada. If governmental authorities in Canada, and, in particular, in the province of Quebec, were to reduce or eliminate the amount of tax credits that are available in respect of these activities by DTI, then our tax liabilities would likely increase and our overall profitability would be negatively impacted.. We are exposed to foreign currency risks in our Media & Content segment.. Within our Media & Content segment, sales to customers and purchasing are largely transacted in U.S. dollars, while most of our Media & Content segment's operating companies' fixed costs are incurred in local currencies such as euros, British pounds, Indian rupees and Canadian dollars, which exposes us to currency risks. We cannot preclude the possibility of negative foreign currency effects in the future, some of which may be substantial, due to unforeseen exchange rate fluctuations or inaccurate assessments of market developments.. There are also intragroup receivables and liabilities in our Media & Content segment, such as loans, that can generate significant foreign currency effects. Changes in the exchange rates of a number of foreign currencies against the euro, especially the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar, could lead to the recognition of unrealized foreign exchange losses.. Risks Related to Our Connectivity Segment. Our Connectivity segment's revenue is largely dependent upon our existing relationship and agreement with Southwest Airlines.. Our existing supply and services agreement with Southwest Airlines, which we entered into on December 13, 2016, governs our supply of products and services to Southwest Airlines, including our broadband equipment, Wi-Fi service in connection with the use of our broadband system, live television-related services and certain additional contemplated services. Our Connectivity segment is substantially dependent on this customer relationship, which accounted for 36%, 54% and 85% of such segment's revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and 19%, 22% and 23% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In addition, a significant source of our revenue and operating income is generated from the supply of live television-related services to Southwest Airlines. If we fail to maintain certain minimum service level requirements relating to such television service, or if we fail to meet other obligations relating to our technology, equipment or services, Southwest Airlines may have the right to terminate such television service or the supply and services agreement. Further, there is no guarantee that Southwest Airlines will continue to maintain historical levels of fleet installation growth and services with us. Our business would be materially adversely affected if we are unable to maintain our existing relationship with Southwest Airlines or if such television service or the supply and services agreement is terminated.. The success of our Connectivity segment depends on the investment in and development of new broadband technologies and advanced communications and secure networking systems, products and services and antenna technologies, as well as their market acceptance.. Broadband, advanced communications and secure networking markets are subject to rapid technological change, frequent new and enhanced product and service introductions, product obsolescence and changes in user requirements. Our ability to compete successfully in these markets depends on several factors, including:. • our ability to continue to develop leading technologies in existing and emerging broadband, advanced communications and secure networking markets;. • our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis that respond to ever-changing customer requirements;. 19. Table of Contents. • our ability to enhance our product and service offerings by continuing to increase satellite capacity, bandwidth cost efficiencies and service quality and adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors;. • successful integration of various elements of our complex technologies and system architectures;. • timely completion and introduction of new system and product designs;. • achievement of acceptable product and service costs;. • establishment of close working relationships with major customers for the design of their new communications and secure networking systems incorporating our products and services;. • marketing and pricing strategies of our competitors with respect to competitive products and services; and. • market acceptance of our new products and services.. We have entered into a long-term development project with QEST to develop new global antenna technologies, and have made and continue to make significant product development investments to our existing connectivity technology solutions to address these new technologies. Since our new global antenna technologies have yet to be deployed for commercial use, there can be no assurance that such technologies will perform as expected or be commercially available on our current timeline, if at all, due to, among other things, problems arising in the development process, and delays in obtaining or failures to obtain the required regulatory approvals to deploy and operate such technologies. If the technologies fail to perform as expected or their commercial availability is significantly delayed, our business, business prospects and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. We cannot guarantee that our new technology, product or service offerings in our Connectivity segment will be successful or that any of the new technologies, products or services we offer will achieve sufficient market acceptance. Our Connectivity segment may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent us from successfully selecting, developing, manufacturing or marketing new technologies, products or services, and these efforts could divert our attention and resources from other projects. We cannot be sure that such efforts and expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies. Any delays could result in increased costs of development or divert resources from other projects. In addition, defects may be found in our products after we begin deliveries that could result in degradation of service quality, and the delay or loss of market acceptance. If we are unable to design, manufacture, integrate and market profitable new products and services for existing or emerging markets, it could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face increased demand for greater bandwidth, speed and performance from customers in an increasingly competitive environment featuring new technologies and market entrants, which may require us to maintain increased service levels at higher costs and make significant investments in improving our Connectivity platform.. Competition among providers of connectivity solutions, including satellite providers who can leverage their own gateways and satellite constellations to provide connectivity solutions directly to customers, may impact prices received for services. Moreover, if demand for greater bandwidth, Internet streaming, speed and performance of our network increases, we may be forced to expend substantial financial and other resources in investing in future satellite transponder capacity and network infrastructure and improve our overall satellite-based and related technologies to ensure that we meet such demands from our current and future customers. The costs of obtaining current and future satellite capacity may also be affected by limitations in global satellite capacity. Should demand increase for greater bandwidth, speed and performance beyond our current capabilities in this increasingly competitive environment featuring new technologies and satellite providers directly competing with our offerings, we may be required to significantly invest in improving our Connectivity solution or to leverage our existing platform, including our Media & Content services offerings, to further develop and deploy more cost-effective connectivity solutions.. We may experience customer attrition as satellite capacity providers increasingly enter into arrangements directly with customers.. We rely on satellite providers to secure the satellite capacity needed to conduct our Connectivity operations and provide Connectivity services to customers. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the capacity needed to conduct our operations at current rates and levels moving forward, or to obtain capacity on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Satellite manufacturers, satellite owners and other satellite providers are increasingly seeking to enter into arrangements directly with our customers for satellite capacity and services. As a result, we may experience customer attrition and may be unable to compete with satellite providers who could offer greater pricing flexibility and satellite capacity options given their place in the supply. 20. Table of Contents. chain. Our failure to compete with satellite providers, or new-entrant providers, and offer favorable pricing arrangements to customers could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on \"sole source\" service providers and other third parties for certain key components of, and services relating to, our Connectivity segment.. We currently source key components of our hardware and key features of our Connectivity services from sole providers of equipment and network services, respectively, including the satellite antenna sourced from TECOM Industries, Inc., or TECOM, and substantially all of our Connectivity segment's satellite modems from Hughes. If we experience a disruption in the delivery of products and services from any of our key providers it may be difficult for us to continue providing our own products and services to our customers. We have experienced component delivery issues in the past and there can be no assurance that we will avoid similar issues in the future. In addition, the supply of third party components in general could be interrupted or halted by a termination of our relationships with such third parties, a failure of quality control or other operational problems at such suppliers or a significant decline in their financial conditions. If we are unable to continue to engage suppliers with the capabilities or capacities required by our Connectivity segment, or if such suppliers fail to deliver quality products, parts, equipment and services on a timely basis consistent with our schedule, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, any loss of favored nation relationships that we have with our hardware providers today could eliminate our competitive advantage in the use of satellites for in-flight connectivity in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. We may need to materially increase our investments in product development and equipment in connection with our efforts to grow our Connectivity segment's service lines and remain competitive in the future, which the Company could be unable to do if it is liquidity constrained.. We have historically incurred significant product development expenses to support the growth of our Connectivity services and offerings and we expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources as we continue to grow our Connectivity segment and increase our investments in satellite-based technologies and our product offerings. As current and future product development efforts progress, such as our currently-in-process Boeing line-fit initiative (that allows the Company to install its connectivity equipment on aircraft during assembly), antenna development, expansions in our satellite-based services and capabilities, Airtime IFE product offering development, investments in Ku-HTS technologies and capital investments in Connectivity equipment for new and existing customers and services, the costs of our Connectivity segment may materially fluctuate in future periods, which could negatively affect our future operating results. The amount and timing of these costs are subject to numerous variables, including the availability and timing of next-generation technologies, the need and related costs to develop and implement changes to our software and hardware or to expand our service offerings to be competitive and, with respect to satellite technologies, the need and related costs of obtaining current and future satellite capacity. The capital investments and related costs may be significant, and we may have insufficient liquidity or resources to make those investments in the future.. We may be unsuccessful in expanding our Connectivity segment internationally, and our international operations are subject to a variety of risks.. We operate our Connectivity segment in numerous countries around the world and intend to continue to expand the number of countries in which we operate. Our ability to expand our Connectivity segment internationally involves various risks, including the need to invest significant resources in unfamiliar markets and the possibility that there may not be returns on these investments in the near future comparable to our recent financial results or at all. We may need to adopt technological solutions for broadband Internet that are different than those we deploy domestically, we may be unable to find content or service providers to partner with on commercially reasonable terms for foreign markets, or at all, and we cannot provide assurance that changes in geopolitics will not result in restrictions on the expansion of our business, such as restrictions on foreign ownership of telecommunications providers or the establishment of economic sanctions by the United States affecting businesses such as ours. In addition, in expanding our operations internationally, we expose our business to the risks and uncertainties relating to the international financial markets, compliance with international regulations and policies, the complexity of managing foreign operations and human resources and more acute exposure to the impact of international governmental and political changes and conflicts.. Many of the countries in which we operate our Connectivity segment have legal systems that are less developed and less predictable than legal systems in the United States, and, as a result, our international expansion exposes us to potential increased costs and uncertainties. New rules and regulations may be enacted or existing rules and regulations may be applied or interpreted in a manner which could limit our ability to provide the services of our Connectivity segment in the countries in which we wish to operate.. 21. Table of Contents. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our Connectivity customers may be negatively impacted by service interruptions or delays, technology failures, damage to equipment or software defects or errors.. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our customers depends, in part, upon the reliable performance of our Connectivity segment's satellite transponder capacity, network infrastructure and connectivity system. The uninterrupted operations and services of our Connectivity segment depend upon the extent to which our equipment and the equipment of our third-party network providers is protected against damage from fire, flood, earthquakes, power loss, solar flares, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, break-ins, acts of war or terrorism and similar events or factors beyond our control. Our Connectivity segment has experienced interruptions in these systems in the past, including infrastructure, component and service failures that cause service disruptions, service delays or technology or systems failures. If we experience frequent system or network failures, our reputation could be harmed and our Connectivity customers may have the right to terminate their contracts with us or pursue other remedies. Any such impact to our reputation or ability to attract, retain and serve our Connectivity customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the software underlying our Connectivity services is inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when software is first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Any defects or errors, particularly those that cause interruptions to the availability of our Connectivity services could result in termination or failure to renew contracts by our airline customers, reputational risk and reductions in sales or sales credits or refunds to our customers. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our software may be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The failure of our equipment or material defects or errors in our software may damage our reputation or result in claims against us that exceed our insurance coverage, requiring us to pay significant damages and impairing our ability to offer our Connectivity services.. The products offered by our Connectivity segment contain complex systems and components that could contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technologies. If any of our Connectivity products are defective, we could be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such events could result in significant expenses and material liabilities, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products. If our Connectivity segment's on-board equipment has a severe malfunction or if there is a problem with equipment installation which damages an aircraft or maritime vessel or impairs its on-board electronics or avionics, significant property loss and serious personal injury or death could result. Any such failure could expose us to material product liability claims or costly repair obligations. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover the payment of any such claims. A product recall or a product liability claim not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our indemnity obligations to our enterprise customers may include losses due to third-party claims (such as from their end-users, e.g., their passengers) and, in certain cases, the causes for such losses may include failure of our products. Such indemnity obligations are difficult to quantify but may result in significant expenses. In addition to such costs, any material defects or errors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, which could impair our ability to continue to offer our Connectivity services in the future.. Satellite failures or degradations in satellite performance could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We use leased and Company-owned satellite capacity to support our broadband services for our Connectivity segment. Satellites utilize complex technology and operate in the harsh environment of space and, accordingly, are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions (commonly referred to as anomalies), interference from electrostatic storms, and collisions with meteoroids, decommissioned spacecraft or other space debris. The satellites we employ for our Connectivity segment have experienced various anomalies in the past and will likely experience anomalies in the future. Anomalies can occur as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturer error, whether due to the use of new or largely unproven technology or due to a design, manufacturing or assembly defect that was not discovered before launch and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the space environment.. Additionally, the Company uses inclined orbit satellites for some of its services. These are satellites that are operating beyond their original design life and have reduced their station keeping fuel consumption rate such that they no longer remain in a zero degree inclination orbit. Their remaining useful life is a function of how long the remaining fuel can be used to maintain an acceptable orbit inclination to allow us to provide services to our customers. Once the onboard fuel has been exhausted, these satellites are no longer able to provide useful services.. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies, or other operational failure or degradation, on any of the satellites, or the complete loss of a satellite, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and revenue and our relationships with current customers. 22. Table of Contents. and distributors, as well as our ability to attract new customers. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby creating additional expense due to the need to provide replacement or backup capacity and potentially reducing revenue if service is interrupted or degraded on the satellites utilized. We may not be able to obtain backup capacity or a replacement satellite on reasonable economic terms, a reasonable schedule or at all.. Many satellites have redundant or backup systems and components that operate in the event of an anomaly, operational failure or degradation of primary critical components, but these redundant or backup systems and components are subject to risk of failure similar to those experienced by the primary systems and components. The occurrence of a failure of any of these redundant or backup systems and components could materially impair the useful life, capacity or operational capabilities of the satellite.. Businesses or technologies that we have acquired or invested in or that we may acquire or invest in could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our ongoing business, dilute stockholder value or have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may engage in further acquisitions of businesses or technologies to augment our growth, or we may invest with third parties in certain U.S. and foreign markets. Acquisitions and investments involve challenges and risks in negotiation, execution, valuation and integration. Even if successfully negotiated, closed and integrated, certain acquisitions or investments may not advance our business strategy, may fall short of expected return-on-investment targets or may fail. Any past or future acquisition or investment could also involve additional risks, including:. • potential impact on our ability to produce financial statements in a timely manner, such as with the EMC Acquisition and which acquisition could in turn contribute to our material weaknesses in our internal controls;. • potential distraction of management from our ongoing business and from the remediation of our material weaknesses;. • difficulty integrating the operations and products of the acquired business, which could result in delays in the realization of acquisition synergies;. • use of cash to fund the acquisition or investment or for unanticipated expenses;. • limited market experience in new businesses;. • exposure to unknown liabilities, including litigation against the companies that we acquire;. • additional costs due to differences in culture, geographical locations and duplication of key talent;. • delays associated with or resources being devoted to regulatory review and approval and other ongoing compliance matters;. • acquisition-related accounting charges affecting our balance sheet and operations;. • difficulty integrating the financial results of the acquired business in our consolidated financial statements;. • controls in the acquired business;. • impairment of goodwill, intangible and tangible assets. During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $167 million and $64 million, respectively. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded an impairment of $16.7 million relating to our WMS investment;. • dilution to our current stockholders from the potential issuance of equity securities to consummate a proposed acquisition or investment; and. • potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company.. In the event that we enter into any acquisition or investment agreements, closing of the transactions could be delayed or prevented by regulatory approval requirements, including antitrust or national-security reviews or other conditions. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any attempted acquisitions or investments, and we could assume the economic risks of such failed or unsuccessful acquisitions or investments.. In certain of our previously completed acquisitions, we have agreed to make future payments, either in the form of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments, or earnouts, based on the performance of the acquired businesses or the employees who joined us with the acquired businesses. We may use earnouts for acquisitions in the future. The performance goals pursuant to which these future payments may be made generally relate to achievement by the acquired business or the employees who joined us from the acquired business of certain specified benchmarks during a specified period following completion of the applicable acquisition. Future acquisitions or investments may involve issuances of stock as full or partial payment of the purchase price for the acquired business or investment, grants of incentive stock or options to employees of the acquired businesses (which may be dilutive to existing stockholders), and expenditure of substantial cash resources or the incurrence of material amounts of debt. The specific performance goal levels and amounts and timing of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments vary with each acquisition. While we expect to derive value from an acquisition in excess of such contingent payment obligations, our strategy may change and we may be required to make certain contingent payments without deriving the anticipated value.. 23. Table of Contents. Although we conducted due diligence in connection with the acquisitions and investments that we have consummated, we cannot be certain that such diligence revealed all material issues that may be present in those businesses. It may not be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or there may be adverse factors outside of our control that later arise. Even if the due diligence that we conducted in connection with acquisitions or investments that we have already consummated or that we consummate in the future successfully identifies certain risks, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis.. We may be required to write down or write off assets, restructure operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in losses with respect to any acquisitions or investments we consummate from time to time. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. Any such write-downs, write-offs, restructuring or charges could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and stock price.. We may fail to realize the expected benefits of any acquisitions or investments as rapidly as the expectations of, or to the extent anticipated by, the marketplace, investors, financial analysts or industry analysts. Any such failure may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and stock price.. We may experience losses from fixed - price Connectivity contracts or contracts where our average revenue per customer declines more quickly relative to decreasing (or potentially increasing) associated costs.. In our Connectivity segment, we typically charge customers (including our largest Aviation Connectivity customer) a fixed - rate monthly recurring fee for services under several of our long - term contracts, which are usually three to nine years in length. These contracts carry the risk of potential cost overruns because we assume the burden of all costs under the agreement.. We assume greater financial risk on fixed - price contracts than on other types of contracts because our ability to profit on such contracts is dependent on our ability to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately and control costs during the performance of such contracts. If we are unable to estimate or control costs under our fixed price contracts, the net profit of our Connectivity segment may be significantly reduced. Because many of these long-term contracts involve new technologies and applications, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of materials, problems with the suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. We may experience historical cost overruns and operating losses on at least some of our customer agreements.. We may experience losses from satellite capacity contracts that require us to make minimum payments, which we may not be able to satisfy.. We currently have multi-year contracts with satellite-capacity suppliers where we have agreed to make minimum payments over the life of those contracts.  If we lose current customers and then do not obtain an adequate number of new customers, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to exceed the costs associated with these satellite-capacity agreements.  Our commitment to our satellite-capacity suppliers may cause us to suffer significant losses in these circumstances, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. This expenditure of cash could limit our ability to make other investments in technology and in other businesses that our management may wish to pursue.  Our minimum commitment under our satellite-capacity contracts may have a negative impact on our liquidity position, and we may have insufficient cash to fund our operations as a result.. Risks Related to Our Media & Content Segment. We face competition from the increasing on-board use of personal electronic devices and the greater capabilities for passengers to access and download content to such devices prior to travel, which may, among other things, cause passengers to substitute our IFE services offered in our Media & Content segment with \"over-the-top\" download services.. Ever-increasing numbers of passengers have personal electronic devices or other digital platforms which have the ability to deliver passengers content in-flight, such as movies, music or games or to access on-board connectivity to the Internet, live television or content on demand. In addition, passengers also may subscribe or have access to \"over-the-top\" download services (such as Amazon and Netflix) that permit them to download content onto their personal electronic devices prior to travel that they can then access in transit without Wi-Fi or Internet. As on-board connectivity to the Internet improves, being able to use these download and streaming services as an alternative to any media and content that we may be able to provide to our airline or maritime customers may devalue our content service offerings because those passengers will use those alternative platforms instead of our own. If passengers no longer utilize traditional IFE systems for the delivery of content and the demand for our services declines, our. 24. Table of Contents. customers may cease engaging with us for their content service provider needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our Media & Content segment and the related media and content market faces pricing pressure and reduction in the use of intermediary content service providers.. Our Media & Content business faces pricing pressures from both our customers and studios. Studios, distributors and other content providers seek more expensive pricing for the content that we acquire, and our customers simultaneously demand and negotiate for lower prices and rates for the content and services that we provide. We cannot assure you that we can maintain any current pricing efficiencies with studios, distributors and other content providers, and we may need to provide price concessions in order to acquire new customers or retain current customers in the future. Changes to our cost structure and pricing that reduce our overall yields may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our customers may reduce their use of intermediary content service providers (such as us) and seek to obtain content directly from content creators and distributors (i.e., directly from our content suppliers). If our customers execute engagements directly with studios, distributors and other content creators, then our business as a content service provider will be adversely affected.. A reduction in the volume or quality of content produced by studios, distributors or other content providers could diminish the attractiveness of our Media & Content products for passengers.. We receive content from studios, distributors and other content providers, and, in some circumstances, we depend on the volume and quality of the content that these content providers produce. If such providers were to reduce the volume or quality of content that they make available to us, whether due to their own financial limitations or other factors influencing their businesses, we would have less quality content to choose from, and our programmers would have more difficulty finding relevant and appropriate content to provide to our customers. This could negatively impact the passenger experience, which could, in turn, reduce the demand for our Media & Content segment's offerings and would have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations.. Our revenue may be adversely affected by a reduction or elimination of the time between our receipt of content and the content being made more broadly publicly available to the rental or home viewing market (i.e., the \"early release window\").. We receive the content that we provide directly from studios, distributors and other content providers, and the timing of our receipt of such content is at the discretion of such content providers. Historically, we have received content prior to its availability to the public through the rental or retail markets or Internet streaming services and we have taken advantage of this \"early release window\" in our business by offering our enterprise customers media and content options before they become generally available to their passengers. However, if content providers delay the release of content in a manner that reduces or eliminates the \"early release window,\" we may be unable to generate anticipated revenue in our Media & Content segment because passengers may have the opportunity to consume or download such content at home rather than in-flight.. Our Connectivity segment competes with other companies that offer IFE and IFC systems, and such competition could deter those companies from engaging our Company as a content service provider.. There is a relatively low barrier of entry to the field of providing connectivity solutions to mobility markets. As a result, our Connectivity segment competes with large and small companies that offer various products and services in the IFE and IFC supply chain.  As such competition with companies in our supply chain continues to increase, our relationship with those companies may deteriorate and actively reduce potential business opportunities. For example, there are companies in our industry that not only compete with our Connectivity segment but also determine the specific IFE system to be utilized onboard. Our opportunity to provide services and offerings in our Media & Content segment with respect to such IFE system may be hindered by the competition created by the Connectivity side of our business. If our relationship with such companies that control multiple levels of the supply chain is impacted by the Connectivity solutions that we offer, our Media & Content segment could be adversely affected as a result.. The long sales cycle of many of our Media & Content segment's products increases the difficulty of our expense planning and revenue forecasting and may cause us to expend substantial resources without any assurance of an acceptable financial return.. Many of our Media & Content segment's products have long sales cycles that involve numerous steps, including initial customer contacts, specification writing, software engineering design, software prototyping, pilot testing, device certification, regulatory approvals, marketing and sales efforts and commercial manufacture, integration and delivery. During this cycle, we. 25. Table of Contents. may expend substantial financial resources and management time and effort without any assurance or ability to predict when or if product sales will result. Delays in sales may cause us to expend significant resources without any assurance of an acceptable financial return and increases the difficulty of our expense planning and revenue forecasting, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may experience losses from fixed-price Media & Content contracts if the market price for that service declines relative to our committed cost.. We currently have multi-year, fixed-price delivery contracts with some of the studios from which we purchase content which enable us to purchase content during their respective terms at fixed purchase prices, or through \"flat deals.\" Adjustments to such fixed purchase prices may be advisable or necessary, such as if there are significant changes in customer demand or content supply. If we are unable to make such adjustments or if there is a shift in the customer base under such contracts, then there is a risk that the profit margins on such fixed-price Media & Content contracts may be smaller than predicted or result in a loss. In addition, we may fail to utilize fixed-price contracts in our content supply chain (as a result of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting) and such failure may also cause us to realize smaller margins than we originally forecasted.  Reduced profit margins or losses in our Media & Content segment resulting from fixed-price contracts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to retain or attract Media & Content customers if we do not develop new products or enhance those we currently provide.. The IFE market is faced with rapid technological change, evolving standards in IFE and computer hardware, software development, communications and security infrastructure, and changing needs and expectations of customers. Building new products and service offerings requires significant investment in development. Our investment in software and other product development may ultimately prove to be unsuccessful, and the Company may be required to impair the capitalized value associated with those investments. We also face uncertainty when we develop or acquire new products for our Media & Content segment because there is no assurance that a sufficient market will develop for those products.. In addition, a substantial portion of our Media & Content segment's research and development resources are devoted to maintenance requirements and product upgrades that address new technology support. These demands put significant constraints on the resources that we have available for new product development. If we are unable to develop new products or enhance those we currently provide in an environment of technological change and evolving standards and customer needs, we may be unable to retain or attract Media & Content customers and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely impacted as a result.. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property and Information Technology. We may not succeed in implementing a single and effective enterprise resources planning (\"ERP\") system across all of our businesses to assist with remediating our material weaknesses in our internal controls.. We have numerous material weaknesses in our internal controls as a result of our failure to have a robust ERP system. See Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. Our ability to remediate our material weaknesses in our internal controls depends in part on our ability to implement this enhanced ERP system and adequately train our personnel to effectively utilize the new system. We believe that a new ERP system will provide greater depth and breadth of functionality than our current ERP systems, which will allow us to more effectively integrate past and future acquisitions and manage business and financial data, manufacturing and resource planning functions and other business processes and information that is important to our management team. We currently utilize several ERP systems, some of which have been only partially integrated from our acquired businesses. We intend to streamline these disparate systems into a single Oracle ERP system which will require significant time and resources. To date, we have been unable to successfully implement an effective company-wide ERP system due to lack of sufficient qualified resources and inadequate integration of financial and internal control processes following acquisitions. Additional time and resources will be necessary to fully operationalize a new ERP system by 2019, which is our current anticipated timeline for having a single global ERP system. However, we can make no assurance that our efforts to implement such system will be achieved by that date, that such system will be successful or that such system will meet our expectations in respect of our efforts to remediate certain of our material weaknesses.. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any failure or inability to sufficiently protect them could harm our business and operating results.. 26. Table of Contents. Our proprietary rights to the technologies we use in our products and services, particularly with respect to our proprietary SpeedNet product that improves the web-browsing experience over a satellite connection by proactively storing web content close to the user, are important to the success of our business. We generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws and contractual rights to protect our proprietary rights in our technology and products. We also generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and endeavor to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could use the intellectual property we have developed to enhance their own products and services, which could materially harm our business. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. In addition, we may be required to commence litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. If we are unsuccessful in any such litigation in the future or elect not to pursue litigation for business or reputational reasons, our rights to enforce or use such intellectual property may be impaired or we could lose some or all of our rights to such intellectual property. We do not know whether the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, including in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as extensively as in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time and effort required to create innovative products.. Our business and reputation could be materially harmed as a result of cybersecurity attacks, data breaches, data theft, unauthorized access or hacking.. The success of our business depends, in part, on the secure and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems. In addition, because we engage suppliers and vendors to process personal and payment card information of our customers and end-users, our business is dependent on the security and performance of the information technology systems of those suppliers and vendors. While we select these third-party suppliers and vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from cyber-attacks and security breaches at a supplier or vendor, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. An increasing number of companies have disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on their computer networks. As an example, the content and media industry has recently encountered numerous recent hacks by third parties that have resulted in the premature release of valuable content and the associated loss of revenue and the connectivity industry has had recently alleged hacking attempts where the hacker has claimed to seize aircraft avionics. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often, and as a result the techniques are often not recognized until launched against a target. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate such threatening techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures to protect our business from cyber and similar unauthorized attacks on our information technology systems. Despite our efforts to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, including continuously working to install new, and upgrade our existing, information technology systems and increasing employee awareness around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks, there is no guarantee that such measures will be successful in protecting us from a cyber-attack. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further data or system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex, and sophisticated global cyber threats. Any material breaches of cybersecurity or media reports of perceived security vulnerabilities to our systems or those of our suppliers or vendors, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, could cause us to experience reputational harm, loss of customers and revenue, regulatory actions and scrutiny, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard our customers' information, or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to civil litigation involving allegations of copyright and patent infringement and related claims for indemnification, which could result in our having to pay damages. We may also be subject to additional similar litigation in the future.. We have been, and in the future may be, subject to civil litigation by parties claiming that certain of our audio and music programming offerings infringe the copyright and other intellectual property rights of such parties. For example, during 2016, we entered into settlements with music-rights holders, which resulted in large cash and stock payments by us to resolve the litigations.  See our discussion of our \"Sound Recording Settlements\" in Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. Music and related content are subject to complex licensing and intellectual property rights regimes, and if we are unable to successfully navigate those regimes we may incur damages and liability for any rights infringement. In addition, we are, and in the future may be, subject to civil litigation by patent owners that claim that our connectivity systems infringe their patents and other intellectual property rights.. 27. Table of Contents. We will continue to incur costs to defend and/or settle such lawsuits and such costs may be material. We may be required to pay substantial damages and/or be subject to injunctive relief as a result of these matters, and until resolved, these matters may divert the attention of our management and other resources. The outcome of the foregoing ongoing matters is inherently uncertain and could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, in recent years there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including the wireless communications industry. Any infringement, misappropriation or related claims, whether or not meritorious, are time-consuming, divert technical and management personnel and are costly to resolve. As a result of any such dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, pay damages, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, cease providing certain products or services or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. Some of our suppliers may not provide us with an indemnity for the use of the products and services that these providers supply to us, even if we are exposed to liability for their infringement. At the same time, we generally offer third party intellectual property infringement indemnity to the customers of our Connectivity segment which, in some cases, do not cap our indemnity obligations and thus could render us liable for both defense costs and any judgments. Any of these events could result in increases in our operating expenses, limit our service offerings or result in a loss of business if we are unable to meet our indemnification obligations and our airline customers terminate or fail to renew their contracts.. Risks Related to Legal, Governmental and Regulatory Matters. We may face changes in regulations and difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals to provide our services or to operate our business in particular countries or territorial waters, which could have a material adverse impact on the competitive position, growth and financial performance of our Connectivity segment.. In a number of countries where we operate our Connectivity segment, the provision of our services is highly regulated. We may be required to obtain approvals from national and local authorities in connection with most of the telecommunication services that we provide. In many jurisdictions, we must maintain such approvals through compliance with license conditions or payment of annual regulatory fees. For example, many of our Connectivity customers to whom we provide maritime and land products and services utilize our services on mobile vessels or drilling platforms that may enter into new countries on short notice. If we do not already have a license to provide our service in that country or to operate in that country's territorial waters, if required, we may be required to obtain a license or other regulatory approval on short notice, which may not be feasible in some countries. Failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could subject us to various sanctions including fines, penalties, arrests or criminal charges, loss of authorizations and the denial of applications for new authorizations or for the renewal of existing authorizations or cause us to delay or terminate our service to such vessel or platform until such license or regulatory approval may be obtained. In some areas of international waters, it is ambiguous as to which country's regulations apply, if any, and thus difficult and costly for us to determine which licenses or other regulatory approvals we should obtain. In such areas, we could be subject to various penalties or sanctions if we fail to comply with the applicable country's regulations.. We are unable to predict with any certainty the arrival of new or changed regulations from regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over the products and services we provide in our Connectivity segment, including the operation of satellites, the use of satellite bandwidth, the use of radio spectrum, the licensing of earth stations and other radio transmitters, the provision of communications services, the design, manufacture and marketing of communications systems and networking infrastructure and maritime activity. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in the imposition of financial penalties against us, the adverse modification or cancellation of required authorizations, or other material adverse actions.. Laws and regulations affecting our Connectivity segment are subject to change in response to industry developments, new technology, and political considerations. Legislators and regulatory authorities in various countries are considering, and may adopt, new laws, policies and regulations, as well as changes to existing regulations, regarding a variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect our operations or the operations of our distribution partners, increase the cost of providing products and services and make the products and services of our Connectivity segment less competitive in our core markets, including by making it easier or less expensive for competitors to compete with us. In addition, regulation by United States and foreign government agencies, such as the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (\"CFIUS\"), may impair our ability to raise funds from foreign sources. For example, in July 2017, we terminated our investment agreement with Shareco Group of America, Inc. that we had entered into in late 2016 as a result of the parties' inability to obtain CFIUS approval.. Regulation by United States government agencies, such as the FAA (which regulates design, production, operations and maintenance under the United States' international regulatory jurisdiction), the FCC (which regulates the United States telecommunications industry), the FTC (which regulates competition and consumer protection) and their foreign equivalents may increase our costs of providing services, may require us to change our services, or, if we are not in compliance with relevant. 28. Table of Contents. requirements, may lead to costly regulatory enforcement actions against us that can result in the imposition of significant penalties.. Our Connectivity segment is subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and foreign government agencies. The U.S. government agency that has primary regulatory authority over our operations is the FAA. Similar government agencies in foreign countries also exercise regulatory oversight over our business operations. The commercial and private aviation industries, including civil aviation manufacturing and repair industries, are highly regulated by the FAA. FAA certification is (and similar certification in foreign countries may be) required for all equipment that we install on commercial aircraft, and certain of our operating activities require that we obtain FAA certification or similar foreign certifications as a parts manufacturer. For example, in the United States, FAA approvals required to operate our Connectivity segment include STCs and Parts Manufacturer Approvals (\"PMAs\"). Obtaining STCs and PMAs is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant expenditures of time and resources. Any inability to obtain, delay in obtaining, or change in, needed FAA certifications or their foreign equivalents, authorizations or approvals could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet the installation commitments of our Connectivity segment, to manufacture and sell parts for installation on aircraft, or to expand our business and could, therefore, materially adversely affect our growth prospects, business and operating results. If we fail to comply with the many regulations and standards that apply to our activities, we could lose our FAA certifications or their foreign equivalents, authorizations or other approvals on which the manufacturing, installation, maintenance, preventive maintenance and alteration capabilities of our Connectivity segment rely. In addition, the FAA and other similar government agencies may adopt new regulations or amend existing regulations. These government agencies could also change their policies regarding the delegation of compliance determinations to private companies (as opposed to government agencies) (which private companies we currently engage for these services), which could adversely affect our business. To the extent that any such new regulations or amendments to existing regulations or policies apply to our activities, they would generally increase our costs of compliance.. We are also subject to the rules and regulations of the FCC and similar rules and regulations in foreign countries. For example, as part of our authorization to provide satellite-based Wi-Fi services in our Connectivity segment, we have licenses from the FCC that obligate us to comply with various technical, operational and service requirements specifically identified in such licenses as well as other rules and regulations promulgated by the FCC. Our Connectivity business could in the future become subject to the laws and regulations in the United States applicable to mass-market retail providers of broadband Internet access services, and pursuant to an agreement with U.S. federal law enforcement agencies, our aviation connectivity operations must comply with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (\"CALEA\"), under which communications carriers and some other service providers must ensure that their equipment, facilities and services can accommodate technical capabilities in executing authorized wiretapping and other electronic surveillance.  Many non-U.S. countries have similar lawful-intercept requirements. Other portions of our Connectivity business may also be subject to CALEA. We could be subject to an enforcement action by the FCC and other U.S. and foreign telecommunications regulators or law enforcement agencies for our failure to satisfy any of these laws, regulations and commitments, or these laws and regulations may change in a manner adverse to us.  This could subject us to fines, cease and desist orders, loss of licenses and other penalties, as well as increased compliance burdens and costs, all of which could adversely affect our business.. We are also subject to U.S. federal and state and foreign consumer protection requirements, including data privacy and security requirements and restrictions on international personal-data transfers. For example, Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\") Act prohibits \"unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce.\" The FTC has brought enforcement actions under the FTC Act against companies that: collect, use, share, or retain personal information in a way that is inconsistent with the representations, commitments, and promises that they make in their privacy policies and other public statements; have privacy policies that do not adequately inform consumers about the company's actual practices; and/or fail to reasonably protect the security, privacy and confidentiality of nonpublic consumer information.  In addition, in mid-2018, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") will take full effect, imposing significant personal-data protection requirements on us and many of our customers and restricting the transfer of personal data outside the European Union.  We continue to analyze the GDPR in respect of its burden and applicability to our global business operations.  We may fail to comply with any of these requirements, and compliance with these requirements may increase our compliance burden and costs.. Adverse decisions or regulations of any of the foregoing U.S. and foreign regulators could negatively impact our operations, increase our costs of doing business and potentially expose us to significant liability. We are unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of legal, regulatory and policy changes that could be adopted by those entities.. 29. Table of Contents. Regulation by foreign government agencies may increase our costs of providing services or require us to change our services.. Our Connectivity segment is subject to regulation by regulatory agencies and legislative bodies outside the United States where we do, or in the future may do, business. These foreign bodies may require us to obtain certifications for equipment that we install and certain of our operating activities may require that we obtain foreign regulatory certifications as a parts manufacturer. Obtaining these certifications could be an expensive and time-consuming process requiring significant focus and resources. Adverse decisions or regulations of these foreign government agencies could delay the roll-out of our services and have other adverse consequences for us.. Any inability to obtain, delay in obtaining, or change in, needed certifications, authorizations, or approvals, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet the installation commitments of our Connectivity segment, manufacture and sell parts for installation, or expand our business and could, therefore, materially adversely affect our growth prospects, business and operating results. If we fail to comply with the many foreign regulations and standards that apply to our activities, we could lose the foreign certifications, authorizations or other approvals on which the manufacturing, installation, maintenance, preventive maintenance and alteration capabilities of our Connectivity segment are based. In addition, from time to time, the foreign bodies that regulate our activities may adopt new regulations, amend existing regulations or change their policies, all of which could adversely affect our business. To the extent that any such new regulations or amendments to existing regulations or policies apply to our activities, those new regulations or amendments to existing regulations would generally increase our costs of compliance.. Changes in government regulation of the Internet, including e-commerce or online video distribution, may cause us to change our Connectivity operations and incur greater operating costs in order to maintain compliance.. The current legal environment for Internet communications, products and services is uncertain and subject to statutory, regulatory or interpretive change. Certain laws and regulations applicable to our Connectivity segment often do not contemplate or address specific issues associated with those technologies, and regulators may disagree with our interpretations of existing laws or regulations or the applicability of existing laws or regulations to our business, and existing laws, regulations and interpretations may change in unexpected ways. We cannot be certain what positions regulators may take regarding our compliance with, or lack of compliance with, current and future legal and regulatory requirements or what positions regulators may take regarding any past or future actions that our Connectivity segment has taken or may take in any jurisdiction. Regulators may determine that we are not in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and impose penalties, or we may need to make changes to our connectivity system, which could be costly and difficult or could result in lower revenues. Our failure, or the failure of our vendors and media partners, customers and others with whom we transact business, to comply with legal or regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The international sales and operations of our business are subject to extensive trade, export, anti - money laundering, foreign corrupt practices and data protection laws.. We must comply with all applicable export control laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. U.S. laws and regulations applicable to it include the Arms Export Control Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (\"ITAR\"), the Export Administration Regulations (\"EAR\") and the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\") as well as various anti-bribery, anti-corruption and data privacy laws. The export of certain of our satellite hardware, services and technical data relating to satellites may in the future be regulated by the U.S. Department of State under ITAR. Other products and services we provide are controlled for export by the U.S. Department of Commerce under the EAR. We also cannot provide services to certain countries subject to U.S. trade sanctions unless we first obtain the necessary authorizations from OFAC. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally bars bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. A substantial portion of our business is with airlines and non-governmental organizations, which constitute \"government officials\" for many anti-bribery laws in many jurisdictions, which could increase the risk of potential anti-corruption compliance issues. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in significant sanctions including fines, onerous compliance requirements, extensive debarments from export privileges or loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of our international business. We are also subject to the United Kingdom's new Corporate Criminal Offence of the Failure to Prevent the Facilitation of Tax Evasion based on our large UK footprint. A violation of any of the regulations described above could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As we continue to expand our operations to include a physical international presence, or otherwise expand our collection of personally identifiable information of residents in other countries, we may be subject to the data protection regulations of the relevant countries. On April 27, 2016, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), scheduled to take effect on May 25, 2018, which may result in even more restrictive privacy-related requirements for entities outside the European Union that process personally identifiable information about European data subjects. Penalties for non-compliance with the GDPR are considerable, allowing E.U. regulators to impose a monetary penalty of up to 4% of an entity's annual global turnover. 30. Table of Contents. or \20020 million, whichever is greater. In addition, certain countries have laws which restrict the transfer of personally identifiable information outside of such countries. For example, both Switzerland and the member states of the European Union impose restrictions on transferring data to countries that they do not deem to offer a similar standard of protection as they require. The United States is a jurisdiction whose processes these countries do not deem adequate for purposes of cross-border personal data transfers.. Certain mechanisms apply under European Union member state laws that permit the cross border transfer of personal information to countries that are not deemed adequate, such as the United States. Global Eagle intends to enter into standard contractual clauses approved by the European Union to legitimize these transfers. There is a risk that these standard contractual clauses may be invalidated by the Court of Justice for the European Union as a lawful data transfer mechanism on the grounds that they do not provide adequate protection of European data subjects' personally identifiable information. There is also a risk that EU data protection authorities may investigate or bring enforcement actions with criminal and administrative sanctions. Such actions could also damage our business and harm our reputation.. We have been subject to civil stockholder litigation involving allegations that certain of our investor disclosures were false or misleading. We may be subject to additional similar litigation in the future.. We and certain of our former officers and directors are named as defendants in certain purported stockholder class action lawsuits. Specifically, on February 23, 2017 and on March 17, 2017, following the Company's announcement that it anticipated a delay in its 2016 Form 10-K filing and that its former CEO Dave Davis and former CFO Tom Severson would separate from the Company, three putative securities class action lawsuits were filed in United States District Court for the Central District of California. These lawsuits allege violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act against the Company, Mr. Davis, Mr. Severson and Michael Zemetra (who was our CFO prior to Mr. Severson). The plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed two of these lawsuits. The third lawsuit, brought by putative stockholder M&M Hart Living Trust and Randi Williams (the \"Hart complaint\"), alleges that the Company and the other Defendants made misrepresentations and/or omitted material information about the EMC Acquisition in July 2016, the Company's projected financial performance and synergies following that acquisition, and the impact of that acquisition on the Company's internal controls over financial reporting. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages, attorneys' fees and costs. On November 30, 2017, the plaintiffs filed a motion to alter or amend the Court's previous judgment of dismissal to permit them to file a further amended complaint. On January 8, 2018 the Court denied the plaintiffs' motion to alter or amend the previous judgment. On January 29, 2018, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit from the Court's denial of the plaintiffs' motion to alter or amend the judgment. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves against this claim.. We incurred costs to defend such lawsuits and may incur additional costs to defend and/or settle similar matters. In addition, we may be required to pay substantial damages in connection with these matters if we do not ultimately prevail. Further, these lawsuits divert the attention of our management and consume other resources. Our directors' and officers' liability insurance may not be adequate to cover our obligations to indemnify our directors and officers, fund a settlement of these lawsuits or pay an adverse judgment. We are currently unable to estimate the possible loss or possible range of loss, if any, associated with these lawsuits, in part because the outcome of the foregoing matters is inherently uncertain. An unfavorable outcome from the lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, future cash flows or future reputation.. In addition to the lawsuit described above, we and our current and/or former officers and directors may face additional suits from stockholders in the future. Any such suits may similarly cause us to incur substantial costs, result in management distraction, and expose us to significant damages. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any such litigation, and any adverse outcome of such cases could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations.. Our potential indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance could result in significant legal expenses or damages and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations.. Both current and former officers and members of our Board of Directors (the \"Board\"), as individual defendants, could be the subject of lawsuits related to the Company. Under Delaware law, our by-laws and certain indemnification agreements, we may have an obligation to indemnify both current and former officers and directors in relation to these matters. If the Company incurs significant uninsured indemnity obligations, our indemnity obligations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. 31. Table of Contents. Our substantial indebtedness may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and subjects us to various reporting and financial covenants that we may be unable to comply with and the failure to remain in compliance with those covenants could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We currently have a significant amount of indebtedness and could in the future incur additional indebtedness. Our substantial debt combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, as well as significant expenses in connection with our efforts to remediate material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, could have significant adverse consequences on our business and financial condition. For example:. • If we fail to meet payment obligations or otherwise default under our debt, the lenders will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. We do not expect that we could repay all of our outstanding indebtedness if the repayment of such indebtedness was accelerated.. • We are required to comply with a financial covenant that requires us to maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, a maximum consolidated first lien net leverage ratio (the \"Leverage Ratio\"), as calculated under our senior secured credit agreement entered into on January 6, 2017 (as amended, the \"2017 Credit Agreement\"). If our Leverage Ratio is greater than 3.5x, we are restricted from incurring additional indebtedness under our revolving credit facility.. • Our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements could be limited. If we are unable to raise additional capital if required, it could affect our liquidity, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our ability to borrow additional amounts under our revolving credit facility, which is a significant source of liquidity, is subject to the absence of defaults and our ability to make certain representations and warranties. Failure to meet our borrowing conditions under our revolving credit facility could materially and adversely impact our liquidity.. • Our debt imposes operating and financial covenants and restrictions on us, and compliance with such covenants and restrictions may adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt at favorable rates, or at all, to adequately finance our operations or capital needs, pursue attractive business opportunities that may arise, redeem or repurchase capital stock, pay dividends, sell assets and make capital expenditures.. • Our failure to comply with the covenants in our 2017 Credit Agreement and the securities purchase agreement governing our Second Lien Notes due June 30, 2023 (the \"Second Lien Notes\"), which include covenants requiring us to timely file our audited and unaudited financial statements, could result in an event of default on our debt.. • We could experience increased vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including increases in interest rates if our borrowings bear interest at variable rates or if such indebtedness is refinanced at a time when interest rates are higher.. • We are initially required to pay the interest on our Second Lien Notes in kind and may be required to pay in kind until March 15, 2021, which will increase the outstanding principal amount on such notes and further increase our substantial indebtedness.. Shortly following the filing of this Form 10-K, we will be required (under the terms of the Second Lien Notes) to repay approximately $79.9 million in outstanding revolving credit loans (which figure includes interest thereon) under our 2017 Credit Agreement. We intend to satisfy our current and future debt service obligations with our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from our normal operations, and if required, funds from external sources. However, we may not generate sufficient funds from our operations or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to pay the amounts due under our existing debt. Funds from external sources may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In the event of an acceleration of amounts due under our debt instruments as a result of an event of default, including upon a failure to pay any amount due or upon an acceleration event on our other debt instruments (such as on our convertible notes described below), we may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to repay our indebtedness or to make any accelerated payments.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness. 32. Table of Contents. will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. In addition, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which could cause the related risks to intensify. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before their respective maturities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The terms of any new debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than are currently in place.. We may not have the ability to repay the principal amount of our Second Lien Notes at their maturity, to make the cash interest payments on such notes when due or to raise the funds necessary to repurchase our Second Lien Notes upon a change of control.. On March 27, 2018, we issued $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of our Second Lien Notes due 2023. Interest on our Second Lien Notes is initially payable in kind (compounded semi-annually) at a rate of 12.0% per annum. Interest will automatically convert to accruing cash pay interest at a rate of 10.0% per annum upon the earlier of (i) March 15, 2021 and (ii) on the last day of the first fiscal quarter in which our Leverage Ratio has decreased to 3.39x. While interest on our Second Lien Notes is paid in kind, the outstanding principal amount on such notes will increase and our 2017 Credit Agreement restricts us from voluntarily making cash payments on our Second Lien Notes (including interest thereon). Upon a change of control (as defined in the securities purchase agreement governing our Second Lien Notes), we must offer to repurchase the Second Lien Notes from the noteholders at a price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. At maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of, plus accrued and unpaid interest on, our Second Lien Notes will become due and payable by us. Our Second Lien Notes are guaranteed by each of our subsidiaries that guarantees our 2017 Credit Agreement.. We may not have sufficient funds or be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time we are required to begin making cash interest payments on our Second Lien Notes, repay such notes upon maturity or repurchase such notes upon a change of control. In addition, our ability to repurchase our Second Lien Notes or make cash interest payments on them may be limited by agreements governing our indebtedness (such as our 2017 Credit Agreement). Our inability to make any cash payments that may be required to satisfy the obligations described above would trigger an event of default under our Second Lien Notes, which in turn could constitute an event of default under our other outstanding indebtedness, thereby potentially resulting in the acceleration of certain of such indebtedness, the prepayment of which could further restrict our ability to satisfy such cash obligations, and cause our lenders and debtholders to foreclose upon the assets securing our Second Lien Notes and certain other indebtedness.. We may not have the ability to repay the principal amount of our convertible notes at maturity, to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of our convertible notes or to repurchase our convertible notes upon a fundamental change or on specified repurchase dates, and the agreements governing our future indebtedness may contain limitations on our ability to repurchase our convertible notes.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding approximately $82.5 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2035 (the \"convertible notes\"). At maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of our convertible notes will become due and payable by us. Upon the occurrence of a \"fundamental change\" (as defined in the indenture for the convertible notes) (including among other things, if our common stock ceases to be listed or quoted on Nasdaq) or upon each of February 20, 2022, February 22, 2025 and February 22, 2030, holders of convertible notes will also have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their convertible notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of our convertible notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and any additional amounts that may be required under the agreements governing such notes. In addition, upon conversion of our convertible notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of our convertible notes being converted. However, we may not have sufficient funds or be able to obtain financing at favorable terms, or at all, at the time we are required to repay the principal amount of our convertible notes, make repurchases of our convertible notes or settle conversions of our convertible notes. In addition, our ability to repurchase our convertible notes may be limited by law, regulatory action or agreements governing our indebtedness.. Furthermore, certain transactions or events that would give holders of our convertible notes the right to put our convertible notes back to us or to convert our convertible notes with an increased conversion rate may constitute events of default under our 2017 Credit Agreement. Our failure to repay the principal amount of our convertible notes, repurchase convertible notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture (including, among other things, if our common stock ceases to be listed or quoted on Nasdaq), or to settle conversions of our convertible notes would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under our other debt agreements (such as our 2017 Credit Agreement) or agreements governing our outstanding and future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were. 33. Table of Contents. to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase our convertible notes or make cash payments upon conversion thereof.. The conditional conversion feature of our convertible notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of our convertible notes is triggered (including, among other things, if our common stock ceases to be listed or quoted on Nasdaq), holders of convertible notes will be entitled to convert our convertible notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their convertible notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than cash in lieu of any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their convertible notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which may result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results.. Under Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, or ASC 470-20, we are required to separately account for the liability and equity components of our convertible notes because they may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects our economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for our convertible notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of our convertible notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current period presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of our convertible notes to their face amount over the term of our convertible notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of our convertible notes.. In addition, because our convertible notes may be settled entirely or partly in cash, under certain circumstances, our convertible notes are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of our convertible notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of our convertible notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of our convertible notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. The fundamental change repurchase feature of the indenture governing our convertible notes, as well as the change of control repurchase feature of the securities purchase agreement governing our Second Lien Notes, may increase the price of or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of us.. The indenture governing our convertible notes requires us to repurchase our convertible notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change and, in certain circumstances, to increase the conversion rate for a holder that converts its notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change. In addition, the securities purchase agreement governing our Second Lien Notes and the indenture governing our convertible notes require us to repurchase such notes for cash upon the occurrence of a change of control. A takeover may trigger the requirement that we repurchase one or both of our Second Lien Notes and our convertible notes and/or increase the conversion rate on our convertible notes, which could make it more costly for a potential acquirer to engage in a combinatory transaction with us. Such additional costs may have the effect of preventing a Company takeover that would otherwise be beneficial to investors.. 34. Table of Contents. Exercise or conversion of our Searchlight warrants and/ or convertible notes may dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes, or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock.. On March 27, 2018, we issued an affiliate of Searchlight Capital (\"Searchlight\") warrants to acquire an aggregate of 18,065,775 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.01 per share and warrants to acquire an aggregate of 13,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.57 per share. If our common stock hits certain trading price targets, the warrants will be exercisable as early as January 1, 2021 and expire on March 27, 2028. The exercise of some or all of the warrants and/or the conversion of some or all of our convertible notes (if we deliver shares upon conversion of any of such convertible notes) will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. The dilution from any warrant exercise and/ or conversion of our convertible notes could be substantial. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such exercise or conversion or any anticipated sales upon exercise of the warrants or conversion of our convertible notes into shares of our common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. These factors also could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock, warrants or convertible securities, and could adversely impact the terms under which we could obtain additional equity capital. In addition, the existence of our convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of our convertible notes could be used to satisfy short positions.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Although we are currently compliant with Nasdaq rules, we have not been in compliance with Nasdaq rules in the past.  If we are unable to remain in compliance with Nasdaq rules, such as if our stock price falls below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive days, Nasdaq may determine to delist our common stock. A delisting would give rise to a repurchase obligation under the indenture for our convertible notes and could have an adverse impact on the trading volume, liquidity and market price of our common stock.. In 2017, we received several notifications from the Listing Qualifications Department of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC stating that we were in continued noncompliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5250(c)(1) because we failed to timely file our 2016 Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2017, June 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017 (collectively, the \"2017 Quarterly Reports\").  We filed our 2016 Form 10-K and 2017 Quarterly Reports within the extension period that we requested from Nasdaq, and Nasdaq confirmed that we regained compliance in February 2018.  However, if we are unable to timely file our periodic reports in the future, or fail to comply with any other Nasdaq rules, such as if our stock price falls below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive days, then Nasdaq may decide to delist our securities.. If our common stock ceases to be listed or quoted on Nasdaq, this would constitute a \"fundamental change\", as defined in the indenture governing our convertible notes, pursuant to which the holders of convertible notes would have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their convertible notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of our convertible notes to be repurchased. We may not have sufficient funds or be able to obtain financing if we are required to repurchase the convertible notes, which could cause us to default under the indenture. A default under the indenture would also cause an event of default under our 2017 Credit Agreement, which, at the election of the requisite majority of lenders, could cause all outstanding indebtedness under our 2017 Credit Agreement to become immediately due and payable. An acceleration under the indenture would also cause an event of default under our Second Lien Notes, which, at the election of the requisite majority of holders, could cause all outstanding indebtedness under our Second Lien Notes to become immediately due and payable.. In addition, a delisting and/or trading suspension of our securities from Nasdaq would negatively impact us because it could, among other things: (i) reduce the liquidity and market price of our common stock; (ii) reduce the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing; (iii) limit our ability to use a registration statement to offer and sell freely tradable securities, thereby preventing us from accessing the public capital markets; (iv) impair our ability to provide liquid equity incentives to our employees; and (v) have negative reputational impact for us with our customers, suppliers, employees and other persons with whom we transact from time to time.. The delayed filing of some of our periodic SEC reports has made us currently ineligible to use a registration statement on Form S-3 to register the offer and sale of securities, which could adversely affect our ability to raise future capital or complete acquisitions.. As a result of the delayed filing of our periodic reports with the SEC, we will not be eligible to register the offer and sale of our securities using a registration statement on Form S-3 until December 2018, at the earliest (and assuming we continue to remain timely in our SEC reporting). Should we wish to register the offer and sale of our securities to the public prior to the time we are eligible to use Form S-3, both our transaction costs and the amount of time required to complete the transaction could increase,. 35. Table of Contents. making it more difficult to execute any such transaction quickly and successfully, and as a result potentially harming our financial condition.. The interests of our largest securityholders may conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders.. Based on the information available to us, PAR Investment Partners, L.P. (\"PAR\") beneficially owned approximately 32.5% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017, and was our largest stockholder on that date; and entities affiliated with ABRY Partners beneficially owned approximately 10.6% of our outstanding common stock as of that date. In addition, affiliates of Searchlight hold all of our outstanding Second Lien Notes and warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 31,065,775 shares of our common stock as described above under the risk factor entitled \"Exercise or conversion of our Searchlight warrants and/or convertible notes may dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes, or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock.\" As such, our securities are highly concentrated within a limited group of large securityholders. Furthermore, in connection with Searchlight's purchase of our warrants, we agreed to allow Searchlight to nominate two directors to our Board. Searchlight will continue to have the right to nominate one or two members of our Board (according to a formula based on the number of warrants and/or shares that it holds) so long as it holds at least 25% of the $0.01 exercise price warrants that it originally acquired (and/or the shares issued upon exercise of such warrants).. Because of this concentration of ownership and the presence of Searchlight's nominees on our Board, our largest securityholders may have significant influence over us. These securityholders may have the ability to influence the nomination and election of our directors and the outcome of corporate actions of the Company requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership, as well as Searchlight's right to demand repayment of our Second Lien Notes upon a change of control, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The interests of these securityholders may conflict with our interests or those of other stockholders.. The market price of our securities may be volatile and may decline as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control.. Our stock price has declined significantly over the last 24 months (i.e., by more than 83.3% over that time period and by more than 62.3% in the last 12 months) and is volatile. Any of the factors listed below could have a further adverse effect on an investment in our securities, and our securities may trade at prices significantly below the price that you paid for them. In such circumstances, the trading price of our securities may not recover and may experience a further decline. Factors that may affect the trading price of our securities in the future may include:. • our inability to timely file our SEC reports;. • our material weaknesses in our internal controls;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us;. • changes in the market's expectations about our operating results;. • success of competitors;. • our inability to consummate beneficial investment and M&A transactions, including due to our inability to obtain any required regulatory or national security approvals;. • our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period;. • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning the Company, the market for in-flight entertainment, the airline industry, or the travel market in general;. • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. • our ability to market new and enhanced products on a timely basis;. • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business or our industry;. 36. Table of Contents. • commencement of, or involvement in, litigation involving the Company;. • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt;. • the volume of shares of our common stock available for public sale;. • any major change in our Board or management; and. • sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities and credit-ratings analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If insufficient securities or industry analysts cover us, our stock price and trading volume would likely be negatively impacted. If any of the analysts covering us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. If any analyst who covers us were to cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.. Our charter and by-laws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our Board. These provisions include:. • a classified Board with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our Board;. • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. • the exclusive right of our Board to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our Board;. • the ability of our Board to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;. • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. • the requirement that an annual meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chair of the Board, the chief executive officer, or the Board, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors;. • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;. • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of stockholder meetings;. • providing the Board with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings of stockholders and to cancel previously scheduled annual meetings of stockholders;. • providing that directors may be removed prior to the expiration of their terms by stockholders only for cause; and. • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our Board or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company.. 37. Table of Contents. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of the Company or changes in our management. In addition, given concentrated holdings at our largest shareholders, any takeover or change in control may be difficult without their support.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the DGCL, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of the Company's outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. We may issue additional equity or convertible debt securities in the future, which may result in additional dilution to investors.. To the extent that we need to raise additional capital in the future and we issue additional shares of common stock, warrants or other securities convertible or exchangeable for our common stock, our then existing stockholders may experience dilution and the new securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock. The issuance of such additional common stock, warrants or other convertible or exchangeable securities could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock, which could adversely affect investors' ability to sell shares in the market or our ability to raise additional capital on favorable terms, or at all, in the future or both. Our charter authorizes our Board to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our stockholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividends, liquidation rights or voting rights. If we issue preferred stock, it may adversely affect the market price of our common stock."
