[1] "ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risks and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other SEC filings before you decide whether to buy our common stock. The risks identified below are not all encompassing but should be considered in establishing an opinion of our future operations.  If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock.. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations. Our ability to protect our systems and data from continually evolving cybersecurity risks or other technological risks could affect our reputation among our customers and cardholders, adversely affect our continued card network registration or membership and financial institution sponsorship, and may expose us to penalties, fines, liabilities and legal claims.. In order to provide our services, we process and store sensitive business information and personal information about our merchants, merchants' customers, merchants' employees, ISOs, vendors, partners and other parties. This information may include credit and debit card numbers, bank account numbers, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, names and addresses, and other types of personal information or sensitive business information. Some of this information is also processed and stored by our third-party service providers to whom we outsource certain functions and other agents (which we refer to collectively as our \"associated third parties\") as well as merchants and ISOs. We have responsibility to the card networks, their member financial institutions, and in some instances, our merchants, ISOs and/or individuals, for our failure or the failure of our associated third parties to protect this information.. We are a regular target of malicious third-party attempts to identify and exploit system vulnerabilities, and/or penetrate or bypass our security measures, in order to gain unauthorized access to our networks and systems or those of our associated third parties. Such access could lead to the compromise of sensitive, business, personal or confidential information. As a result, we follow a defense-in-depth model for cybersecurity, meaning we proactively seek to employ multiple methods at different layers to defend our systems against intrusion and attack and to protect the data we collect. However, we cannot be certain that these measures will be successful and will be sufficient to counter all current and emerging technology threats.. Our computer systems and/or our associated third parties' computer systems could be subject to penetration, and our data protection measures may not prevent unauthorized access. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and are often difficult to detect. Threats to our systems and our associated third parties' systems can derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Computer viruses and other malware can be distributed and could infiltrate our systems or those of our associated third parties. In addition, denial of service or other attacks could be launched against us for a variety of purposes, including to interfere with our services or create a diversion for other malicious activities. Our defensive measures may not prevent downtime, unauthorized access or use of sensitive data. While we maintain first- and third-party insurance coverage that may cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. Further, while we select our associated third parties carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems experienced by these third parties, including those resulting from breakdowns or other disruptions in the services provided by such parties or cyberattacks and security breaches, could adversely affect our ability to service our merchant customers or otherwise conduct our business.. We also could be subject to liability for claims relating to misuse of personal information in violation of contractual obligations or data privacy laws. Regulatory authorities around the world are considering or have enacted a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection and use, and the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the United States, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and elsewhere is increasingly uncertain. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices or operations model, which could result in potential liability for fines, damages or a need to incur substantial costs to modify our operations. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that the contractual requirements related to use, security and privacy that we impose on our associated third parties who have access to this data will be followed or will be adequate to prevent the misuse of this data. Any misuse or compromise of personal information or failure to adequately enforce these contractual requirements could result in liability, protracted and costly litigation and, with respect to misuse of personal information of our merchants and consumers, lost revenue and reputational harm.. Any type of security breach, attack or misuse of data described above or otherwise, whether experienced by us or an associated third party, could harm our reputation and deter existing and prospective customers from using our services or from making electronic payments generally, increase our operating expenses in order to contain and remediate the incident, expose us to unanticipated or uninsured liability, disrupt our operations (including potential service interruptions), distract our management,. 13. Table of Contents. increase our risk of litigation or regulatory scrutiny, result in the imposition of penalties and fines under state, federal and foreign laws or by the card networks, and adversely affect our continued card network registration or membership and financial institution sponsorship. Our removal from networks' lists of Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard compliant service providers could mean that existing merchant customers, sales partners or other third parties may cease using or referring our services. Also, prospective merchant customers, sales partners or other third parties may choose to terminate negotiations with us, or delay or choose not to consider us for their processing needs. In addition, the card networks could refuse to allow us to process through their networks.. The payment processing industry is highly competitive, and some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and operational resources than we do, which may give them an advantage with respect to the pricing of services offered to customers and the ability to develop new technologies.. We operate in the electronic payments market, which is highly competitive.  In this market, our primary competitors include other independent payment processors, as well as financial institutions, ISOs and, potentially, card networks. Many of our competitors are companies that are larger than we are, with greater financial and operational resources than we have. Our competitors that are financial institutions or subsidiaries of financial institutions do not incur the costs associated with being sponsored by a direct member for participation in the card networks, as we do in certain jurisdictions, and may be able to settle transactions more quickly for merchants than we can. These financial institutions may also provide payment processing services to merchants at a loss in order to generate banking fees from the merchants. It is also possible that larger financial institutions could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. These attributes may provide them with a competitive advantage in the market.. Furthermore, we are facing increasing competition from nontraditional competitors, including new entrant technology companies who offer certain innovations in payment methods. Some of these competitors utilize proprietary software and service solutions. Some of these nontraditional competitors have significant financial resources and robust networks and are highly regarded by consumers. In addition, some nontraditional competitors, such as private companies or startup companies, may be less risk averse than we are and, therefore, may be able to respond more quickly to market demands. If these nontraditional competitors gain a greater share of total electronic payments transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These competitors may compete in ways that minimize or remove the role of traditional card networks, processors and/or point-of-sale software in the electronic payments process.. In order to remain competitive and to continue to increase our revenues and earnings, we must continually and quickly update our services, a process that could result in higher costs and the loss of revenues, earnings and customers if the new services do not perform as intended or are not accepted in the marketplace.. The electronic payments markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs.  In order to remain competitive, we are continually involved in a number of projects, including the development of a new authorization platform, mobile payment applications, ecommerce services and other new offerings emerging in the electronic payments industry.  These projects carry the risks associated with any development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance problems.  In the electronic payments markets, these risks are even more acute.  Any delay in the delivery of new services or the failure to differentiate our services could render our services less desirable to customers, or possibly even obsolete.  Furthermore, as the market for alternative payment processing services evolves, it may develop too rapidly or not rapidly enough for us to recover the costs we have incurred in developing new services targeted at this market.. In addition, the services we deliver to the electronic payments markets are designed to process very complex transactions and deliver reports and other information on those transactions, all at very high volumes and processing speeds. Any failure to deliver an effective and secure product or any performance issue that arises with a new product or service could result in significant processing or reporting errors or other losses. As a result of these factors, our development efforts could result in higher costs that could reduce our earnings in addition to a loss of revenues and earnings if promised new services are not delivered timely to our customers or do not perform as anticipated. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies.. Our revenues from the sale of services to merchants that accept Visa cards and MasterCard cards are dependent upon our continued Visa and MasterCard registrations, financial institution sponsorship and, in some cases, continued membership in certain card networks.. In order to provide our Visa and MasterCard transaction processing services, we must be either a direct member or be registered as a merchant processor or service provider of Visa and MasterCard, respectively.  Registration as a merchant processor. 14. Table of Contents. or service provider is dependent upon our being sponsored by Members of each organization in certain jurisdictions.  If our sponsor financial institution in any market should stop providing sponsorship for us, we would need to find another financial institution to provide those services or we would need to attain direct membership with the card networks, either of which could prove to be difficult and expensive. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution to provide sponsorship or attain direct membership, we may no longer be able to provide processing services to affected customers and potential customers in that market, which would negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows. Furthermore, some agreements with our financial institution sponsors give them substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants and the terms of our agreements with merchants. Our sponsors' discretionary actions under these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In connection with direct membership, the rules and regulations of various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. Any increase in the capital level required would limit our use of capital for other purposes.. We rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. If we are unable to maintain clearing services with these financial institutions and are unable to find a replacement, our business may be adversely affected.. We rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. If such financial institutions should stop providing clearing services, we must find other financial institutions to provide those services. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution we may no longer be able to provide processing services to certain customers, which could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows.. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations or membership.  If we incur fines or penalties for which our merchants or ISOs are responsible that we cannot collect or pursue collection from them, we may have to bear the cost of such fines or penalties.. We are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions. The rules of the card networks are set by their boards, which may be influenced by card issuers, and some of those issuers are our competitors with respect to these processing services. Many banks directly or indirectly sell processing services to merchants in direct competition with us. These banks could attempt, by virtue of their influence on the networks, to alter the networks' rules or policies to the detriment of non-members, including us in certain jurisdictions. The termination of our registrations or our membership or our status as a service provider or a merchant processor, or any changes in card association or other network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of the rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.  If a merchant or an ISO fails to comply with the applicable requirements of the card associations and networks, we or the merchant or ISO could be subject to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks. If we cannot collect or pursue collection of such amounts from the applicable merchant or ISO, we may have to bear the cost of such fines or penalties, resulting in lower earnings for us.  The termination of our registration, or any changes in the Visa or MasterCard rules that would impair our registration, could require us to stop providing Visa and MasterCard payment processing services, which would make it impossible for us to conduct our business on its current scale.. Our systems or our third-party providers' systems may fail, which could interrupt our service, cause us to lose business, increase our costs and expose us to liability.. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer systems, software, data centers and telecommunications networks, as well as the systems and services of third parties. A system outage or data loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Not only would we suffer damage to our reputation in the event of a system outage or data loss, but we may also be liable to third parties. Our systems and operations or those of our third-party providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist acts, war, unauthorized entry, human error, and computer viruses or other defects.  Defects in our systems or those of third parties, errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions, telecommunications failures, or other difficulties (including those related to system relocation) could result in loss of revenue, loss of customers, loss of merchant and cardholder data, harm to our business or reputation, exposure to fraud losses or other liabilities, negative publicity, additional operating and development costs, fines and other sanctions imposed by card networks, and/or diversion of technical and other resources.. 15. Table of Contents. We may experience software defects, undetected errors, and development delays, which could damage customer relations, decrease our potential profitability and expose us to liability.. Our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems that often encounter development delays, and the underlying software may contain undetected errors, viruses or defects.  Defects in our software services and errors or delays in our processing of electronic transactions could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, loss of credibility with current or potential customers, harm to our reputation and exposure to liability claims.. In addition, we rely on technologies and software supplied by third parties that may also contain undetected errors, viruses or defects that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Increased merchant, referral partner or ISO attrition could cause our financial results to decline.. We experience attrition in merchant credit and debit card processing volume resulting from several factors, including business closures, transfers of merchants' accounts to our competitors, unsuccessful contract renewal negotiations and account closures that we initiate for various reasons, such as heightened credit risks or contract breaches by merchants. If an ISO partner switches to another transaction processor, terminates our services, internalizes payment processing functions that we perform, merges with or is acquired by one of our competitors, or shuts down or becomes insolvent, we may no longer receive new merchant referrals from the ISO, and we risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the ISO. We cannot predict the level of attrition in the future and it could increase. Our referral partners are a significant source of new business. Higher than expected attrition could negatively affect our results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our future growth depends in part on the continued expansion of markets in which we already operate, the emergence of new markets, and the continued availability of alliance relationships and strategic acquisition opportunities.. Our future growth and profitability depend upon our continued expansion within the markets in which we currently operate, the further expansion of these markets, the emergence of other markets for electronic transaction payment processing and our ability to penetrate these markets. As part of our strategy to achieve this expansion, we look for acquisition opportunities, investments and alliance relationships with other businesses that will allow us to increase our market penetration, technological capabilities, product offerings and distribution capabilities. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition, investment and alliance candidates in the future, and if we do, they may not provide us with the value and benefits we anticipate.. Our expansion into new markets is also dependent upon our ability to apply our existing technology or to develop new applications to meet the particular service needs of each new market. We may not have adequate financial or technological resources to develop effective and secure services and distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of these new markets.  If we fail to expand into new and existing electronic payments markets, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues and earnings.. There may be a decline in the use of cards and other electronic payments as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the card industry in general.. If consumers do not continue to use credit or debit cards or other electronic payment methods as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, checks, credit cards, and debit cards, which is adverse to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Consumer credit risk may make it more difficult or expensive for consumers to gain access to credit facilities such as credit cards. Regulatory changes may result in financial institutions seeking to charge their customers additional fees for use of credit or debit cards. Such fees may result in decreased use of credit or debit cards by cardholders. In each case, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.  We believe future growth in the use of credit and debit cards and other electronic payments will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of services offered to consumers and businesses.  In order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to use electronic payment methods that we process, including credit and debit cards.. We incur chargeback losses when our merchants refuse or cannot reimburse us for chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers.  Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In the event a dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally charged back to the merchant and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder.  If we are unable to collect. 16. Table of Contents. such amounts from the merchant's account or reserve account (if applicable), or if the merchant refuses or is unable, due to closure, bankruptcy or other reasons, to reimburse us for a chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder.  The risk of chargebacks is typically greater with those merchants that promise future delivery of goods and services rather than delivering goods or rendering services at the time of payment.  We may experience significant losses from chargebacks in the future.  Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have policies to manage merchant-related credit risk and often mitigate such risk by requiring collateral and monitoring transaction activity. Notwithstanding our programs and policies for managing credit risk, it is possible that a default on such obligations by one or more of our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Fraud by merchants or others could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. We have potential liability for fraudulent electronic payment transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others.  Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant or other party knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit credit or debit card, card number, or other credentials to record a false sales or credit transaction, processes an invalid card, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting and fraud. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud could increase our chargeback losses or cause us to incur other liabilities.  It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future.  Increases in chargebacks or other liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. We are subject to economic and political risk, the business cycles and credit risk of our customers and the overall level of consumer, business and government spending, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The global electronic payments industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income and changes in consumer purchasing habits. A sustained deterioration in general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate or increases in interest rates may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions made using electronic payments. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease in our revenues and profits. If our merchants make fewer sales to consumers using electronic payments or consumers using electronic payments spend less per transaction, we will have fewer transactions to process or lower transaction amounts, each of which would contribute to lower revenues.. A downturn in the economy could force retailers to close, resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and future transaction declines. Furthermore, credit card issuers may reduce credit limits and be more selective with respect to whom they issue credit cards. We also have a certain amount of fixed and other costs, including rent, debt service, and salaries, which could limit our ability to quickly adjust costs and respond to changes in our business and the economy. Changes in economic conditions could also adversely affect our future revenues and profits and cause a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, a recessionary economic environment could affect our merchants through a higher rate of bankruptcy filings, resulting in lower revenues and earnings for us. Our associated third parties are also liable for any fines or penalties that may be assessed by any card networks. In the event that we are not able to collect such amounts from our merchants or the associated third parties, due to fraud, breach of contract, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may be liable for any such charges.. Reject losses arise from the fact that, in most markets, we collect our fees from our merchants on the first day after the monthly billing period. This results in the build-up of a substantial receivable from our customers. If a merchant has gone out of business during the billing period, we may be unable to collect such fees, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Increases in card network fees may result in the loss of customers and/or a reduction in our earnings.. From time-to-time, the card networks, including Visa and MasterCard, increase the fees that they charge processors.  We could attempt to pass these increases along to our merchant customers, but this strategy might result in the loss of customers to our competitors who may not pass along the increases, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings.  If competitive practices prevent us from passing along the higher fees to our merchant customers in the future, we may have to absorb all or a portion of such increases, thereby increase our operating costs and reducing our earnings.. 17. Table of Contents. Any new implementation of or changes made to laws, regulations, card network rules or other industry standards affecting our business in any of the geographic regions in which we operate may require significant development efforts or have an unfavorable effect on our financial results and our cash flows.. Our business is affected by laws and regulations and examinations that affect us and our industry in the countries in which we operate.  Regulation and proposed regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years.  Failure to comply with regulations or guidelines may result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines, or may cause customers or potential customers to be reluctant to do business with us, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. For example, we are subject to the card network rules of Visa, MasterCard and other card networks, Interac, and various debit networks; applicable privacy and information security regulations in the regions where we operate and of the card networks; the Payment Services Directive in Europe; The Code of Conduct for the Credit and Debit Card Industry in Canada (issued by Canada's Department of Finance); the Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 in the United States, which requires information returns to be made for each calendar year by merchant acquiring entities; and a myriad of U.S. federal and state consumer protection laws and state escheat regulations.  We are also subject to examination by the FFIEC as a result of our provision of data processing services to financial institutions. Additionally, we manage a membership discount program that is billed to customers annually on a recurring basis. Change in regulation of this type of billing could negatively affect our revenue.. Interchange fees (which are retained by the card issuer in connection with transactions) are subject to intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide. For instance, the Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law in July 2010, significantly changed the U.S. financial regulatory system. Changes affecting the payment processing industry include restricting amounts of debit card fees that certain issuing institutions can charge merchants and allowing merchants to set minimum amounts for the acceptance of credit cards and to offer discounts for different payment methods. These types of restrictions could negatively affect the number of debit transactions, which would adversely affect our business.  The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the \"CFPB\"), which has assumed responsibility for enforcing federal consumer protection laws, and the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which has the authority to determine whether any nonbank financial company, such as us, should be supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the \"Federal Reserve\") on the ground that it is \"systemically important \"to the U.S. financial system. Any such designation would result in increased regulatory burdens on our business, which increases our risk profile and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. All persons offering or providing financial services or products to consumers, directly or indirectly, can be subject to prohibitions against unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices (\"UDAAP\") under the Dodd-Frank Act. The CFPB has enforcement authority to prevent an entity that offers or provides consumer financial services or products or a service provider from committing or engaging in UDAAP, including the ability to engage in joint investigations with other agencies, issue subpoenas and civil investigative demands, conduct hearings and adjudication proceedings, commence a civil action, grant relief (e.g., limit activities or functions; rescission of contracts), and refer matters for criminal proceedings.  More generally, all persons engaged in commerce, including, but not limited to, us and our merchant and financial institution customers, are also subject to Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\") Act prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices (\"UDAP\"). In addition, there are other laws, rules and or regulations, including the Telemarketing Sales Act, that may directly impact the activities of our merchant customers and in some cases may subject us, as the merchant's payment processor, to investigations, fees, fines and disgorgement of funds in the event we are deemed to have aided and abetted or otherwise provided the means and instrumentalities to facilitate the illegal activities of the merchant through our payment processing services. Various federal and state regulatory enforcement agencies, including the FTC, the CFPB and the states' attorneys general have the authority to take action against nonbanks that engage in UDAP or violate other laws, rules or regulations and, to the extent we are processing payments for a merchant that may be in violation of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to enforcement actions and as a result may incur losses and liabilities.. In many countries, we are legally or contractually required to comply with the anti-money laundering laws and regulations, such as, in the United States, the BSA, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act, and similar laws of other countries, which require that customer identifying information be obtained and verified. In some countries, we are directly subject to these requirements; in other countries, we have contractually agreed to assist our sponsor financial institutions with their obligation to comply with anti-money laundering requirements that apply to them. In addition, we and our sponsor financial institutions are subject to the laws and regulations enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\"), which prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in transactions with certain prohibited persons or entities. Similar requirements apply in other countries. Our failure to comply with any of these contractual requirements or laws could adversely affect our business, financial credit results of operations and cash flows.. 18. Table of Contents. We are also subject to a variety of foreign and domestic laws, and their implementing regulations, including, without limitation, Directive 95/46/EC, as implemented in each member state of the European Union and its successor, the General Data Protection Regulation, which becomes effective in May 2018, that govern the collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices, and provide individuals with certain rights to prevent use and disclosure of protected information. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and time consuming, adding a layer of complexity to business practices and innovation.  As with other regulatory schemes, our failure to comply could result in public or private enforcement action and accompanying litigation costs, losses, fines and penalties.. On July 26, 2011, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or FinCEN, issued a final rule regarding the applicability of the Bank Secrecy Act's regulations to \"prepaid access\" products and services. This rulemaking clarifies the anti-money laundering obligations for entities engaged in the provision and sale of prepaid services such as prepaid cards. This rule increases our regulatory risks and, as with other regulatory requirements, violations of the rule could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Portions of our business may be subject to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and similar state laws. These debt collection laws are designed to eliminate abusive, deceptive and unfair debt collection practices and may require licensing at the state level. The Fair Credit Reporting Act regulates the use and reporting of consumer credit information and also imposes disclosure requirements on entities that take adverse action based on information obtained from credit reporting agencies. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, to the extent they are applicable to us, we may be subject to fines, penalties and litigation.. Changes to legal rules and regulations, or interpretation or enforcement thereof, even if not directed at us, may require significant efforts to change our systems and services and may require changes to how we price our services to customers, adversely affecting our business.  Even an inadvertent failure to comply with laws and regulations, as well as rapidly evolving social expectations of corporate fairness, could damage our business or our reputation. Furthermore, we are subject to tax laws in each jurisdiction where we conduct business. Changes in such laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we receive, the value of tax losses and tax credit carry forwards recorded on our balance sheet and have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. We are subject to risks associated with changes in interest rates or currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows, and we may not effectively hedge against these risks.. A substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at a variable rate, and we may incur additional variable-rate indebtedness in the future. Increases in interest rates will reduce our operating cash flows and could hinder our ability to fund our operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases or dividends. We are also subject to risks related to the changes in currency exchange rates as a result of our investments in foreign operations and from revenues generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Revenues and profit generated by international operations will increase or decrease compared to prior periods as a result of changes in currency exchange rates. Volatility in currency exchange rates has affected and may continue to affect our financial results.. In certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or limit our ability to freely move currency in or out of particular jurisdictions.  The occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may seek to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or currency exchange rates through the use of hedging arrangements. To the extent that we hedge our interest rate or currency exchange rate exposures, we forgo the benefits we would otherwise experience if interest rates or currency exchange rates were to change in our favor. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates and currency exchange rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. In addition, a counterparty to the arrangement could default on its obligation, thereby exposing us to credit risk. We may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if we terminate these arrangements. Finally, our interest rate and currency exchange rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if such rates move materially differently from our expectations.. We conduct a portion of our business in various foreign countries where the risk of continued political, economic and regulatory change that could affect our operating results is greater than in the United States.. We expect to continue to expand our operations in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Some of the countries in which we operate, such as the Russian Federation and the United Kingdom, have undergone significant political, economic and. 19. Table of Contents. social change in recent years, and the risk of new, unforeseen changes in these countries remains greater than in the United States. Our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by instability or changes in a country's or region's economic conditions; changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, whether caused by a change in government or otherwise; increased difficulty of conducting business in a country or region due to actual or potential political or military conflict; or action by the European Union or the United States, Canada or other governments that may restrict our ability to transact business in a foreign country or with certain foreign individuals or entities, such as sanctions by or against the Russian Federation.. In addition, maintenance of certain types of data by electronic means and telecommunications is subject to specific regulation in many countries.  Changes in these regulations, such as taxation or limitations on transfers of data between countries or the type of permission that must be obtained in conjunction with the use of such data, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit,\" and on March 29, 2017, notified the European Union that it intended to exit as provided in Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. The terms of the withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years from the withdrawal notification date. Nevertheless, the referendum has caused, and may continue to cause, volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations, resulting in a decline in the value of the British pound relative to the U.S. dollar. In addition, Brexit could lead to increased regulatory complexities, including without limitation regulation relating to data security, privacy, and taxation. These changes may adversely affect our operations, financial results and cash flows.. The integration and conversion of our acquired operations or other future acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating these businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process.. The acquisition, integration, and conversion of businesses (such as the acquisition of ACTIVE Network) involve a number of risks. Core risks are in the area of valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited diligence) and integration and conversion (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company's people, services, technology and other assets to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition). In addition, international acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems, and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; complying with foreign regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; difficulty entering new foreign markets due to, among other things, customer acceptance and business knowledge of those new markets; and general economic and political conditions.. If the integration and conversion process does not proceed smoothly, the following factors, among others, could reduce our revenues and earnings, increase our operating costs, and result in not achieving projected synergies:. • If we are unable to successfully integrate the benefits plans, duties and responsibilities, and other factors of interest to the management and employees of the acquired business, we could lose employees to our competitors in the region, which could significantly affect our ability to operate the business and complete the integration;. • If the integration process causes any delays with the delivery of our services, or the quality of those services, we could lose customers to our competitors, which would reduce our revenues and earnings;. • The acquisition may otherwise cause disruption to the acquired company's business and operations and relationships with financial institution sponsors, customers, merchants, employees and other partners;. • The acquisition and the related integration could divert the attention of our management from other strategic matters including possible acquisitions and alliances and planning for new product development or expansion into new electronic payments markets; and. • The costs related to the integration of the acquired company's business and operations into ours may be greater than anticipated.. The costs and effects of pending and future litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We are from time-to-time involved in various litigation matters and governmental or regulatory investigations or similar matters arising out of our current or future business. Our insurance or indemnities may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in pending or future litigation or similar matters under. 20. Table of Contents. various laws. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any pending litigation or future litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.. In our rapidly developing legal framework, we rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or may develop software or technology that competes with ours. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around our intellectual property rights. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which is expensive and could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove to be successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm our business and ability to compete.. We may also be subject to costly litigation in the event our services and technology infringe upon another party's proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that would be infringed by our services or technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our services or technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could limit our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims and require us to design around a third party's patent, which may not be possible, or to license alternative technology from another party, which may be costly. In addition, litigation is often time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management and employees.. New or revised tax regulations, unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or changes to enacted tax rates could adversely affect our tax expense.. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could result in changes to enacted tax rates and may require complex computations to be performed that were not previously required, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the new or revised tax regulations and significant estimates in calculations, as well as the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. Future changes in enacted tax rates could negatively affect our results of operations.. As a result of the recently enacted U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"2017 U.S. Tax Act\"), we remeasured our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are now expected to reverse due to the change in the U.S. federal income tax rate. We also recorded a \"transition tax\" payable on our previously deferred foreign earnings as a result of a new one-time tax established by the 2017 U.S. Tax Act. To address the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") in situations in which a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete the accounting under the 2017 U.S. Tax Act, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\") that provides for the reporting of provisional amounts that may change during a measurement period and the deferral of recognition of any amounts in other instances until a reasonable estimate can be made. The U.S. Treasury Department, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 U.S. Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. Changes in the provisional amounts that we recorded could negatively affect our results of operations.. Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities.   An unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively affecting our results of operations and cash flows.  We have recognized estimated liabilities on the balance sheet for material known tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item.  These liabilities reflect what we believe to be reasonable assumptions as to the likely final resolution of each issue if raised by a taxing authority.  While we believe that the liabilities are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be finally resolved at a financial amount no more than any related liability.  An unfavorable resolution, therefore, could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods.. We may become subject to additional U.S., state or foreign taxes that cannot be passed through to our customers, in which case our earnings could be adversely affected.. We are or may be subject in various jurisdictions to certain taxes that are not derived based on earnings (e.g. sales, gross receipts, property, value-added and other business taxes). Application of these taxes is an emerging issue in our industry and the. 21. Table of Contents. taxing authorities have not yet all adopted uniform regulations on certain of these topics.  If we are required to pay such taxes and are not able to pass the tax cost through to our customers, our earnings and cash flows would be negatively affected.. We have structured our business in accordance with existing tax laws and interpretations of such laws which have been confirmed through either tax rulings or opinions obtained in various jurisdictions, including those related to value-added taxes in Europe.  Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we receive and the amount of our cash flows and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Our Organizational and Capital Structure. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel as we grow, our business could be adversely affected.. All of our businesses function at the intersection of rapidly changing technological, social, economic and regulatory developments that requires a wide ranging set of expertise and intellectual capital. To successfully compete and grow, we must recruit, develop and retain the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of intellectual capital needs. In addition, we must develop our personnel to fulfill succession plans capable of maintaining continuity in the midst of the inevitable unpredictability of human capital. However, the market for qualified personnel is competitive, and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. We cannot assure that key personnel, including executive officers, will continue to be employed or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect us and decrease our business flexibility.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, the outstanding balance under our Credit Facility was $4.7 billion. Our increased level of debt and the covenants to which we have agreed in connection with this and other financing transactions could, among other things, (i) require us to dedicate a larger portion of our cash flow from operations to servicing and repayment of the debt, (ii) reduce funds available for strategic initiatives and opportunities, working capital, capital investment and other general corporate needs and (iii) limit our ability to incur certain kinds or amounts of additional indebtedness, which could restrict our flexibility to react to changes in our business our industry and economic conditions.. The Company's debt agreements contain restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business and our ability to return capital to our shareholders.. Our Credit Facility contains various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability in certain circumstances to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • create liens;. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. • enter into certain lines of business;. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates;. • pay dividends and repurchase shares of our common stock.. Our Credit Facility also contains customary financial covenants based on our leverage ratio and our fixed charge coverage ratio.. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions and, in the case of the Revolving Credit Facility, permit the lenders to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Credit Facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such actions by those lenders could cause cross defaults under certain of our other indebtedness. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our Credit Facility could accelerate the repayment of borrowings, and we may not have sufficient assets to repay our Credit Facility as well as our other indebtedness.. 22. Table of Contents. We may need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital needs, which may prevent us from growing our business.. We may need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital needs, including developing new products and technologies or to fund future acquisitions or operating needs. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity securities, these transactions may dilute the value of our outstanding common stock. We may also decide to issue securities, including debt securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. We may be unable to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all. If financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our future needs. This may prevent us from increasing our market share, capitalizing on new business opportunities or remaining competitive in our industry.. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a portion of these assets could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of our total assets are intangible assets (including goodwill).  Goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortization, together accounted for approximately 61% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2017. We expect to engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill.  We evaluate on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill and other intangible assets may be impaired.  Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to record an impairment charge, which would negatively affect our earnings. An impairment of a portion of our goodwill or intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able or permitted to, or we may decide not to, pay dividends or repurchase shares at a level anticipated by shareholders of our common stock, which could reduce shareholder returns.. The extent to which we pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock in the future is at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other factors, our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, compliance with debt covenants and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. Our Credit Facility may prohibit us from (i) repurchasing more than $250 million of our common stock in any fiscal year and (ii) paying quarterly dividends in excess of $0.01 per share. No assurance can be given that we will be able to or will choose to pay any dividends or repurchase any shares in the foreseeable future.. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk.. We operate in a rapidly changing industry. Accordingly, our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective to identify, monitor and manage our risks.  If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or if we are not always successful in identifying and mitigating all risks to which we are or may be exposed, we may suffer uninsured liability, harm to our reputation or be subject to litigation or regulatory actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report.  If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Furthermore, this assessment may be complicated by any acquisitions we may complete.. In certain markets, including, without limitation, China, the Republic of Malta and Spain, our member sponsors perform payment processing operations and related support services pursuant to services agreements.  We expect that the member sponsors will continue to provide these services until such time as we may integrate these functions into our operations.  Accordingly, we rely on our member sponsors to provide financial data, such as amounts billed to merchants, to assist us with compiling our accounting records.  As such, our internal control over financial reporting could be materially affected, or is reasonably likely to be materially affected, by the internal control and procedures of our member sponsors in these markets.  In order to mitigate this risk, we have implemented internal controls over financial reporting to monitor the accuracy of the financial data being provided by our member sponsors.. 23. Table of Contents. While we continue to dedicate resources and management time to ensuring that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the market's perception of our business and on our stock price.. Anti-takeover provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and provisions of Georgia law could delay or prevent a change in control that individual shareholders favor.. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and provisions of applicable Georgia law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change in control that individual shareholders may consider favorable.  The provisions of our articles and by-laws, among other things:. • divide our board of directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected in staggered three-year terms;. • limit the right of shareholders to remove directors;. • regulate how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of shareholders; and. • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred shares in one or more series, without shareholder approval."
