[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. We are exposed to various risks as we operate our businesses. To provide a framework to understand our operating environment, we are providing a brief explanation of the more significant risks associated with our businesses. Although we have tried to identify and discuss key risk factors, others could emerge in the future.. Risks Related to Our Business. We are exposed to the cyclicality of the U.S. and certain foreign economies as well as fluctuations in certain industries. Our future growth also depends, to a significant extent, on improvements in the general economic conditions and the conditions of our markets.. Many of our products are used in industries that are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns due to factors such as economic conditions, energy prices, the availability of credit, consumer sentiment, demand and other factors beyond our control. These economic and industry downturns have resulted in diminished product demand and excess capacity for our products. Any future economic disruptions may negatively impact our markets or the consumers served by those markets, which would adversely affect our operating results.. A significant amount of our volume is tied to the building and housing sector. If the housing, remodeling and residential and commercial construction markets stagnate or deteriorate, demand from such markets for our products, especially our brass rod products, is likely to be adversely affected. Any recovery in such markets may not necessarily directly correlate with increased sales or profitability. In addition, competition from imports and other sources may also dampen the effects of any such recovery on our results of operations.. Similarly, the automotive market has in the past experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions, the availability and cost of credit, the cost of fuel, and technological developments in the auto industry.. The coinage and general consumer markets are also affected by economic cycles, legislation, and trends in electronic commerce. Demand for coinage-related products generally increases with the number of cash transactions that occur, and the number of cash transactions generally increases during periods of economic growth. Demand for consumer goods is also very sensitive to economic conditions and drives demand in our electronics / electrical components market.. The munitions market is generally not correlated to any general economic indicators and thus, has a high degree of volatility.. We also buy a significant portion of our raw materials from scrap dealers at prices which are often quoted as a discount to prevailing publicly traded market prices for such commodities.  These discounts, or scrap spreads, can fluctuate based on many different conditions, including domestic and international forces beyond our control.  Since we include these scrap spreads in the non-metal conversion fee or Adjusted Sales component of our revenue, our financial results are therefore also subject to fluctuation due to these same conditions.. Failure to maintain our balanced book approach would cause increased volatility in our profitability and our operating results and may result in significant losses.. We use our balanced book approach to substantially eliminate the impact on our operating margins of metal price fluctuations affecting the cost of the metal raw materials used in manufacturing our products.  Such fluctuations can significantly affect our operating margins. Under our balanced book approach, we seek to match the timing, quantity and price of the metal component of net sales with the timing, quantity and price of replacement metal purchases on all of our non-toll sales. We use a combination of matching price date of shipment terms, firm price terms and derivatives transactions to achieve our balanced book. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Key Business Principles Affecting Our Results of Operations - Balanced Book.\". We may not be able to maintain our balanced book approach if our customers become unwilling to bear metal price risk through the matching of price date of shipment terms. We may also not be able to find counterparties for the derivatives transactions entered into in connection with firm price terms, and the cost of those derivatives transactions may increase such that entering into such transactions is no longer cost-effective to us. If we fail to maintain our balanced book approach, we may be forced to accept higher replacement prices, which could generate losses and would increase volatility in our results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. However, our balanced book approach does not reduce the impact of the volatility in metal prices on our working capital requirements. Metal prices impact our investment in working capital because our collection terms with our customers are longer than our payment terms to our suppliers. As a result, when metal prices are rising, even if the number of pounds of metal we process does not change, working capital may be negatively affected as we are required to draw more on our cash or available financing sources to pay for raw materials. As a result, our liquidity may be negatively affected by increasing metal prices. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operating Results and Financial Condition - Key Business Principles Affecting Our Results of Operations - Metal Cost.\". Limited access to raw materials, infrastructure or energy could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cash flows.. Among other things, our success depends on our ability to secure a sufficient and constant supply of raw materials and energy and access to infrastructure adequate to fulfill our business needs.. We depend on scrap for our operations and acquire our scrap inventory from numerous sources. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and have no obligation to sell scrap metals to us. If an adequate supply of scrap metal is not available to us, we may be forced to use a larger amount of more expensive virgin raw materials which would materially adversely affect our ability to meet customer needs in a timely manner, our results of operations, and our financial condition.. We may experience disruptions in the supply of energy as a result of delivery curtailments to industrial customers due to extremely cold weather. We may also experience disruptions or increases in cost with respect to our access to water, electrical power, transport and wastewater treatment services and other infrastructure (including those subject to our transition services agreement with the parent of our predecessor). An inability to find an adequate and timely supply of raw materials or adequate and cost-effective access to infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our profit margin, and in turn on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. In 2017, the cost of energy and utilities represented approximately 7% of our non-metal cost of sales and prices can be volatile. As a result, our energy and utility costs may fluctuate dramatically, and we may not be able to mitigate the effect of higher energy and utility costs on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Although we attempt to mitigate short-term volatility in energy and utility costs through the use of derivatives contracts, we may not be able to eliminate the long-term effects of such cost volatility. Furthermore, in an effort to offset the effect of increasing costs, we may have also limited our potential benefit from declining costs.. Covenants under our debt agreements impose operating and financial restrictions. Failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. The agreement governing our asset-based revolving loan facility (\"ABL Facility\") and the agreement covering our term loan facility that matures on July 18, 2023 (\"Term Loan B Facility\") contain various covenants that limit or prohibit our ability, among other things, to:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;. • pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase, retire or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or subordinated indebtedness or make certain other restricted payments;. • make certain loans, acquisitions, capital expenditures or investments;. • sell certain assets, including stock of our subsidiaries;. • enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions;. • create or incur certain liens;. • consolidate, merge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and. • engage in certain business activities.. The agreement governing the ABL Facility also contains a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio that is tested whenever excess availability, as defined in such agreement, falls below a certain level. For more information regarding these covenants, please see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Outstanding Indebtedness.\". The agreement governing the Term Loan B Facility also contains a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a total debt leverage ratio that is tested quarterly.. 15. Table of Contents. A violation of covenants may result in default or an event of default under our debt agreements.. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the agreement governing the ABL Facility or the Term Loan B Facility, our outstanding indebtedness may become immediately due and payable and we may lose access to further credit under our ABL Facility. If we are unable to repay our indebtedness, the lenders under such facilities may proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral under the ABL Facility and the Term Loan B Facility. If the lenders under either facility, as applicable, accelerate the repayment of borrowings, such acceleration would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Furthermore, cross-default provisions in the ABL Facility and the Term Loan B Facility provide that any default under the other facility or other significant debt agreements could trigger a cross-default under the ABL Facility or the Term Loan B Facility, as applicable. If we are unable to repay the amounts outstanding under these agreements or obtain replacement financing on acceptable terms, which ability will depend in part upon the impact of economic conditions on the liquidity of credit markets, our creditors may exercise their rights and remedies against us and the assets that serve as collateral for the debt, including initiating a bankruptcy proceeding.. For a more detailed description on the limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and our compliance with financial covenants, please see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Outstanding Indebtedness.\". Our sales volumes, financial results, and financial condition could be reduced if we were to lose order volumes from any of our largest customers.. Our five largest customers were responsible for approximately 31% of our net sales in 2017. A loss of order volumes from any major customer could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations by lowering sales volumes, increasing costs and lowering profitability. Order volumes from customers could decrease for a variety of reasons including loss of industry share, customer production outages, technological obsolescence of our products, or other competitive factors. Our balance sheet reflected an allowance for doubtful accounts totaling $1.0 million at December 31, 2017. If adverse economic and market conditions impair the ability of our customers to pay us in the future, our allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable from the Company's customers may increase in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we will not be entitled to lost profits should the United States Mint voluntarily terminate our contract prior to the contractual end date in 2022.. Our business could be disrupted if our customers shift either their manufacturing or sourcing offshore.. Much of our business depends on maintaining close geographical proximity to our customers because the costs of transporting metals across large distances can be prohibitive. If customers, especially those in the automotive, electrical, and building and housing industries, relocate the production of or source their products from foreign locations, we may lose business to foreign competitors or suffer deterioration in our business.. Competition and changes in trade tariffs could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are engaged in a highly competitive industry. Each of our segments competes with a limited number of companies. The Olin Brass segment competes with domestic and foreign manufacturers of copper and brass alloys in the form of strip, sheet and foil. The Chase Brass segment competes with domestic as well as foreign manufacturers of brass rod and beginning in 2013, encountered increased competition from foreign rod suppliers. The A.J. Oster segment primarily competes with distributors, mills and processors of copper and brass products. Furthermore, we believe that domestic sales to customers that are not made by major companies, including us, are fragmented among many smaller companies. In the future, these smaller companies may choose to combine, creating a more significant domestic competitor against our business. We may be required to explore additional initiatives in each of our segments in order to maintain our sales volume at a competitive level. Increased competition in any of the fields in which our segments operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In December 2017, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced anti-dumping and countervailing duties on aluminum foil products from China. China previously served 22% of the U.S. aluminum foil market but was effectively priced out as a supplier to U.S. companies due to these duties. This resulted in significantly higher domestic prices as well as decreased supply with U.S. producers. Our inability to pass through these price increases and the reduced supply from U.S. producers. 16. Table of Contents. could adversely affect the performance of our business or shipments to customers.  In addition, there are further trade cases pending that could result in additional price increases and constrained availability.. In addition, anti-dumping orders impose import duties on copper and brass products from France, Germany, Italy and Japan which allow us and our domestic competitors to compete more fairly against French, German, Italian and Japanese producers in the U.S. copper and brass product market. On March 21, 2012, the International Trade Commission (\"ITC\") Commissioners voted to continue anti-dumping orders for brass sheet and strip from Germany, Italy, France and Japan. While domestic manufacturers lobby for the continued extension of these orders, if they expire, import duties on metal products from these countries will be significantly reduced, increasing the ability of such foreign producers to compete with our products domestically. Additionally, on March 15, 2012, the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement (\"KORUS FTA\") became effective, which largely eliminates tariffs on Korean industrial products imported to the United States. The reduction in prices of Korean products resulting from the KORUS FTA has increased the ability of Korean manufacturers to compete with our products and has had a negative effect on our business. Furthermore, the termination of any anti-dumping orders or other changes to international trade regimes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Adverse developments in our relationship with our employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 1,926 employees, 1,074, or approximately 56%, of whom at various sites were members of unions. Our primary union contracts expire in 2020 and 2022. Our union agreements are a meaningful determinant of our labor costs and are very important to our ability to maintain flexibility to fulfill our customers' needs. As we attempt to renew our collective bargaining agreements, labor negotiations may not conclude successfully and, in that case, may result in a significant increase in the cost of labor or may result in work stoppages or labor disturbances, disrupting our operations. Any such cost increases, stoppages or disturbances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by limiting plant production, sales volumes and profitability.. Our participation in multi-employer union pension plans may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.. We are required to make contributions to the IAM National Pension Plan (\"IAM Plan\"), a multi-employer pension plan that covers certain of our union employees. Our obligations may be impacted by the funded status of the plan, the plan's investment performance, changes in the participant demographics, financial stability of contributing employers and changes in actuarial assumptions. In addition, if a participating employer becomes insolvent and ceases to contribute to a multiemployer plan, the unfunded obligation of the plan will be borne by the remaining participating employers. Under current law, an employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan may incur withdrawal liability to the plan. If, in the future, we choose to withdraw from the multi-employer pension plan in which we participate, we will likely need to record withdrawal liabilities, which could negatively impact our financial performance in the applicable periods.. Our operations are subject to risks of natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism or widespread illness at our domestic and international locations, any one of which could result in a business stoppage and negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facilities, computer systems and personnel. Our facilities and transportation for our employees are susceptible to damage from earthquakes and other natural disasters such as fires, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes and similar events. We have facilities located throughout North America, including in Illinois, Ohio, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Missouri, California, Puerto Rico and Mexico, as well as in China. We take precautions to safeguard our facilities, including obtaining insurance and maintaining health and safety protocols. However, a natural disaster, such as a tornado, fire, flood, hurricane or earthquake, could cause a substantial interruption in our operations, damage or destroy our facilities or inventory and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case, which would require us to expend significant resources to replace any destroyed assets, thereby harming our financial condition and prospects significantly.. For example, Olin Brass's manufacturing facilities and A.J. Oster's California facility are located near geologic fault zones, and therefore are subject to greater risk of earthquakes which could result in increased costs and a disruption in our operations, which could harm our operating results and financial condition significantly. Our facility in East Alton, Illinois. 17. Table of Contents. is located in a flood zone, and all of our facilities in the Midwestern United States are subject to the risk of tornadoes and damaging winds. A.J. Oster's facility in Puerto Rico is subject to hurricanes. Should earthquakes or other catastrophes, such as fires, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, power outages, communication failures or similar events disable our facilities, we do not have readily available alternative facilities from which we could continue our operations, and any resulting stoppage could have a negative effect on our operating results. Acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war could also have a negative effect at our international and domestic facilities.. Any prolonged disruptions, failures, or inability to operate our business, manufacturing facilities, or equipment, including those arising from information technology related incidents, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our ability to satisfy our customers' orders in an efficient manner and to effectively manage inventory levels is dependent on the proper operation of our business, facilities, equipment, and information technology environment and tools. On-time delivery and accurate order fulfillment are essential to maintaining customer satisfaction and generating repeat business. Any prolonged equipment failures, supplier caused production delays, quality control incidents, network outages, information technology system failures or implementations, damage or disruption due to natural disasters, inclement weather conditions, acts of war, terrorism or widespread illness, temporary facility closures, or other disruptions in operations such as a major fire or major equipment breakdown at our manufacturing facilities could materially disrupt our operations and thereby adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance to cover all losses.. We do not have redundancy in our operations on certain critical pieces of equipment, including the Olin Brass hot and cold mills and Chase Brass extruders. If this equipment were damaged, we would have to make alternative arrangements to replicate these processes, which could be costly and result in manufacturing delays, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The increased use of substitute materials and miniaturization may adversely affect our business.. In many applications, copper and other commodities may be replaced by other materials such as aluminum, stainless steel, plastic and other materials and the use of copper and other commodities may be reduced by the miniaturization of components. Increased prices of copper could encourage our customers to use substitute materials and / or miniaturization to limit the amount of copper in their products and applications in an attempt to control their overall product costs. For example, historically, there has been discussion over reducing or eliminating copper content in coins in reaction to the rising prices of copper. Such increased use of substitute materials and / or miniaturization could have a material adverse effect on prices and demand for our products.. If we fail to develop or enhance our products to satisfy evolving customer demands, our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects may be harmed significantly.. The market for copper and copper-alloy products is characterized by changing technologies, periodic new product introductions and evolving customer and industry standards and demands. To achieve market acceptance for our products, we must effectively and timely anticipate and adapt to customer requirements, new technologies and production methods, and offer products and services that meet customer demands.. 18. Table of Contents. A portion of our net sales is derived from our international operations, which exposes us to certain risks inherent in doing business abroad.. In the aggregate, our international operations accounted for 6% of our net sales in 2017. We have operations in China through Olin Luotong Metals and in Singapore through our subsidiary GBC Metals Asia Pacific PTE. In addition, we have various licensing agreements around the world and our products are distributed globally. We plan to continue to explore opportunities to expand our international operations. Our international operations generally are subject to risks, including:. • changes in U.S. and international governmental regulations, trade restrictions and laws, including tax laws and regulations;. • currency exchange rate fluctuations;. • tariffs and other trade barriers;. • the potential for nationalization of enterprises or government policies favoring local production;. • interest rate fluctuations;. • high rates of inflation;. • currency restrictions and limitations on repatriation of profits;. • differing protections for intellectual property and enforcement thereof;. • divergent environmental laws and regulations;. • political, economic and social instability;. • unfamiliarity with foreign laws and regulations and ability to enforce obligations of foreign counterparties;. • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations and labor unrest;. • language and cultural barriers;. • natural disasters and widespread illness;. • geopolitical conditions, such as terrorist attacks, war, or other military action; and. • a divergence between the price of copper on the copper exchange in China and the LME, and the COMEX.. The occurrence of any of these events could cause our costs to rise, limit growth opportunities or have a negative effect on our operations and our ability to plan for future periods, and subject us to risks not generally prevalent in North America.. New governmental regulations or legislation, or changes in existing regulations or legislation, may subject us to significant costs, taxes and restrictions on our operations.. Our operations are subject to a wide variety of U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, international trade and competition and firearms.. For example, the Olin Brass segment provides strip and cups to both the military and commercial munitions markets. In 2017, the shipments by Olin Brass to the munitions market accounted for 38% of its total shipments. The private use of firearms is subject to extensive regulation. Any restriction on the use of firearms and ammunition could affect the demand for munitions, and in turn could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, any changes in the government budget or policy over military spending may adversely affect our contracts with customers in the munitions market.. Changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws, including possibly with retroactive effect, and audits by tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our tax expense and affect profitability and cash flows. From time to time, legislative initiatives are proposed in the U.S., such as the repeal of the election to use LIFO or to lower the U.S. corporate tax rate. The repeal of LIFO accounting for tax purposes could result in a substantial cash tax liability, which could adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. Furthermore, such a repeal could result in an increase in the volatility of our earnings, a greater disparity between our earnings and net sales in our financial statements, and an increase in the costs associated with our derivative transactions to mitigate metal price fluctuations.. Our operations expose our employees to risk of injury or death. We may be subject to claims that are not covered by, or exceed, our insurance. Additional safety measures or rules imposed by regulatory agencies may reduce productivity, require additional capital expenditure or reduce profitability.. Because of the type manufacturing activities conducted at our facilities, there exists a risk of injury or death to our employees or other visitors, notwithstanding the safety precautions we take. Despite policies and standards that are designed to minimize such risks, we may nevertheless be unable to avoid material liabilities, civil or regulatory, for any employee death or injury that may occur in the future. These types of incidents may not be covered by or may exceed our insurance coverage and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 19. Table of Contents. Our ability to retain our senior management team is critical to the success of our business, and failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are dependent on our senior management team to remain competitive in our industry. We have employment contracts or severance agreements with members of our senior management team. Failure to renew the employment contracts or other agreements of a significant portion of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Members of our senior management team are subject to employment conditions or arrangements that permit the employees to terminate their employment without notice. We do not maintain any life insurance policies for our benefit covering our key employees.. If our senior management team were not able to dedicate adequate time to our business, due to personal or other factors, if we lose or suffer an extended interruption in the services of a significant portion of our senior management team, or if a significant portion of our senior management team were to terminate employment within a short period it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the market for qualified individuals may be highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management team, should the need arise.. Environmental costs could decrease our net cash flow and adversely affect our profitability.. Our operations are subject to extensive regulations governing, amongst other things, the creation, use, transportation and disposal of wastes and hazardous substances, air and water emissions, remediation, workplace exposure and other environmental matters. The costs of complying with such laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and clean-ups of sites, as well as internal voluntary programs, can be significant and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future. Additionally, evolving regulatory standards and expectations could result in increased litigation and / or increased costs of compliance with environmental laws, all of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Environmental matters for which we may be liable may arise in the future at our present sites, at previously owned sites, sites previously operated by us, sites owned by our predecessors or sites that we may acquire in the future. Our operations or liquidity in a particular period could be affected by certain health, safety or environmental matters, including remediation costs and damages related to several sites. Because a number of our properties are located in or near industrial or light industrial use areas, we may be liable for any contamination by pollutants which may have migrated to our facility from neighboring facilities or have been released by prior occupants. Some of our properties have been affected by releases of cutting oils and similar materials, and we are investigating and remediating such known contamination pursuant to applicable environmental laws. The costs of these clean-ups have not been material in the past. We are not currently subject to any material claims or notices with respect to clean-up or remediation under CERCLA or similar laws for contamination at our leased or owned properties or at any off-site location. However, we cannot rule out the possibility that we could be notified of such claims in the future. It is also possible that we could be identified by the Environmental Protection Agency, a state agency or one or more third parties as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or under analogous state laws.. In January 2018, one of our Olin Brass operations experienced a leak of mineral oil at its Waterbury, Connecticut facility. Our personnel, the Waterbury fire department, the US EPA, the Connecticut DEEP, and remediation contractors responded immediately. While remediation efforts continue, we do not believe, at this time, this incident will materially affect our long-term financial stability or cash flows.. On November 19, 2007, we acquired the assets and operations relating to the worldwide metals business of Olin Corporation. Olin Corporation agreed to retain liability arising out of then existing conditions on certain of our properties for any remedial actions required by environmental laws, and agreed to indemnify us for all or part of a number of other environmental liabilities. Since 2007, Olin Corporation has been performing remedial actions at the facilities in East Alton, Illinois and Waterbury, Connecticut, and has been participating in remedial actions at our other properties as well. If Olin Corporation were to stop its environmental remedial activities at our properties, we could be required to assume responsibility for these activities, the cost of which could be material. For additional information concerning the indemnity granted to us by Olin Corporation for environmental liabilities, see \"Business - Government Regulation and Environmental Matters.\". 20. Table of Contents. We may be subject to litigation that could strain our resources and distract management.. From time to time, we are involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits and other disputes arising in the ordinary course of business. It is not feasible to predict the outcome of all pending suits and claims, and the ultimate resolution and the cost of and time spent in defending ourselves in these matters as well as future lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or reputation.. Failure to protect, or uncertainty regarding the validity, enforceability or scope of, our intellectual property rights or the expiration of our intellectual property rights could impair our competitive position.. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights, in addition to contractual rights, to protect the intellectual property we use in making our business successful. It is possible that our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, violated or made obsolete by our competitors or third parties, or our pending patent applications may not be granted, thereby hurting our success.. In addition, Chase Brass has entered into agreements with Mitsubishi Shindoh pursuant to which Chase Brass has access to and the right to use certain of its technologies including lead-free Eco Brass® rod and the sublicensing of lead-free Eco Brass® ingot. To the extent that Mitsubishi Shindoh fails to adequately protect the technologies upon which we rely, our competitors may be able to use such technologies or develop similar technologies independently. Conversely, to the extent that we do not fulfill our contractual or other obligations to adequately protect the technologies to which we have been granted access by Mitsubishi Shindoh, we could be liable for any resulting harm to its business or could lose further access to this technology, which could harm our business, operating results or financial condition.. If the technologies upon which we rely infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of third parties, we may be unable to continue using such technologies or we may face lawsuits related to our past use of these technologies. Furthermore, our competitors, who have made significant investments in competing technologies or products, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make or sell our products or provide our services.. If we are unsuccessful in defending against any challenge to our rights to market and sell our products covered by intellectual property rights, our business, financial condition, and financial results may be adversely affected.. Even if we are successful, the expense, time, delay and burden on management of litigation could prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business. Further, negative publicity could decrease demand for our products and services and cause our revenues to decline, thus harming our operating results significantly.. Finally, for our products that are covered on patent protection, once a patent has expired, the product is generally open to competition. For example, patent protection for the most popular versions of Eco Brass® expires in May 2019. The expiration of such patent could enable other companies to compete more effectively with us by allowing our competitors to make and sell products substantially similar to those we offer. This could negatively impact our ability to produce and sell the associated products, thereby adversely affecting our operations.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology, products and services could be harmed significantly.. We rely on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information in operating our business. We seek to protect this information through a variety of means. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, our business, financial condition, and financial results could be negatively affected.. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could harm us by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position, thereby weakening demand for our products or services and harming our ability to maintain or increase our customer base.. 21. Table of Contents. Disruption or failures of our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business depends on the operation of our information technology systems, some of which have not been updated for many years. As a result, our information technology systems are more susceptible to security breaches, operational data loss, general disruptions in functionality, and may not be compatible with new technology. We depend on our information technology systems for the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial records and accuracy. Disruption or failures of our information technology systems or security breaches could impair our ability to effectively and timely provide our services and products and maintain our financial records, which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Olin Brass and A.J. Oster began the process of implementing fully integrated enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") systems to replace their current management information systems and plan to implement the systems in a phased approach over the course of the next several years, and implemented the first phase in early fiscal 2017. These implementations may present challenges. Such challenges include, among other things, training of personnel, communication of new rules and procedures, changes in corporate culture, migration of data and the potential instability of the new system. Furthermore, large-scale system implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that are capital intensive and can span several months or even years. Certain of our business and financial processes also may require transformation in order to effectively leverage the ERP system's benefits. The ERP system implementation may not result in the anticipated improvements and the cost of implementation may outweigh the benefits. There can be no assurance that the ERP system will be successfully implemented, and failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.. We face a number of risks related to future acquisitions and joint ventures.. We may continue to seek opportunities for further acquisitions to supplement our operations and for expansion of our international presence, particularly in Asia, through joint ventures.. Acquisitions and joint ventures involve a number of risks which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including the following:. • we may experience adverse short-term effects on our operating results;. • we may be unable to successfully and rapidly integrate the new businesses, personnel and products with our existing business, including financial reporting, management and information technology systems;. • we may experience higher than anticipated costs of integration and unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, including potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management;. • an acquisition may be in a market or geographical area in which we have little experience and could increase the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations;. • the acquisition or joint venture formation process may require significant attention by our senior management and the engagement of outside advisors (and the payment of related fees), and proposed acquisitions and joint ventures may not be successfully completed;. • we may lose key employees or customers of the acquired company; and. • we may encounter unknown contingent liabilities that could be material.. In addition, we may require additional debt or equity financing for future acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if available at all. We may not be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new business we acquire, and we cannot assure you that any such acquisition will meet our expectations. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Finally, in the event we decide to discontinue pursuit of a potential acquisition, we will be required to immediately expense all costs incurred in pursuit of the possible acquisition, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the expense is recognized.. Our common stock is subject to price and volume fluctuations.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and affected by not only our performance but also the risk factors discussed herein.  In addition, the market price of our common shares may fluctuate and is subject to volatility due to factors beyond our control.. 22. Table of Contents. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. This report contains \"forward-looking statements\" that involve risks and uncertainties. You can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as \"believes,\" \"expects,\" \"projects,\" \"may,\" \"would,\" \"should,\" \"seeks,\" \"approximately,\" \"intends,\" \"plans,\" \"estimates,\" \"anticipates\" or similar expressions that relate to our strategy, plans or intentions. All statements we make relating to our estimated and projected earnings, margins, costs, expenditures, cash flows, growth rates and financial results or to our expectations regarding future industry trends are forward-looking statements. In addition, we, through our senior management, from time to time make or may make forward-looking public statements concerning our expected future operations and performance and other developments. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may change at any time, and, therefore, our actual results may differ materially from those that we expected. We derive many of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known factors, and, of course, it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. All forward-looking statements contained in this report are based upon information available to us on the date of this report.. All forward-looking information in this report and subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us, or persons acting on our behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations (\"cautionary statements\"). In addition to those items discussed in the \"Risk Factors\" section in Item 1A in this annual report on Form 10-K, some of the factors that we believe could affect our results include, but are not limited to:. • our ability to maintain business relationships with our customers on favorable terms;. • the effects of industry consolidation or competition in our business lines;. • supply, demand, prices and other market conditions for our products;. • our ability to accommodate increases in production to meet demand for our products;. • our ability to realize the planned cost savings and efficiency gains as part of our various initiatives;. • our ability to successfully execute acquisitions and joint ventures;. • our ability to retain key employees;. • our ability to maintain cost-effective insurance policies;. • fluctuations in interest rates; and. • restrictive covenants in our indebtedness that may adversely affect our operational flexibility.. We caution you that these factors may not contain all of the material factors that are important to you. In addition, in light of these risks and uncertainties, the matters referred to in the forward-looking statements contained in this report may not in fact occur. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on those statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law.. 23. Table of Contents"
