[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The following risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below. Any one or more of such factors could directly or indirectly cause our actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from past or anticipated future results of operations and financial condition. Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price.. Risks Related to our Business and Industry. Our business is affected by general business, financial market and economic conditions, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business and results of operations are significantly affected by general business, financial market and economic conditions. General business, financial market and economic conditions that could impact the level of activity in the commercial and residential construction and the R&R markets include, among others, interest rate fluctuations, inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, capital spending, bankruptcies, volatility in both the debt and equity capital markets, liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of credit, investor and consumer confidence, global economic growth, local, state and federal government regulation and the strength of regional and local economies in which we operate.. There was a significant decline in economic growth, both in the United States and worldwide, that began in the second half of 2007 and continued through 2011. During this period, the U.S. construction markets we serve experienced unprecedented declines since the post-World War II era. Since that time economic growth has recovered. However, there can be no guarantee that improvement in these markets will be sustained or continue.. Our sales are in part dependent upon the commercial new construction market and the commercial R&R market.. The downturn from 2007 to 2011 in the U.S. commercial new construction market was one of the most severe of the last 40 years. Previously, such downturns in the construction industry have typically lasted about 2 to 3 years, resulting in market declines of approximately 20% to 40%, while the 2007 to 2011 downturn in the commercial construction market lasted over 4 years, resulting in a market decline of approximately 60%. According to Dodge Data & Analytics, commercial construction put in place began to recover in 2013 and continued to increase in 2017. However, 2017 levels of new commercial construction square footage put in place, measured by square footage of construction, are still well below the historical market average of 1.3 billion square feet annually since 1970. We cannot predict the duration of the current market conditions or the timing or strength of any future recovery of commercial construction activity in our markets. Continued weakness in the commercial construction market and the commercial R&R market, would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Continued uncertainty about current economic conditions will continue to pose a risk to our business that serves the commercial construction and R&R markets as participants in this industry may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a continued material negative effect on the demand for our products and services.. Our sales are also in part dependent upon the residential new construction market and home R&R activity.. The distribution of our products, particularly wallboard, to contractors serving the residential market represents a significant portion of our business. Though its cyclicality has historically been somewhat moderated by R&R activity, wallboard demand is highly correlated with housing starts. Housing starts and R&R activity, in turn, are dependent upon a number of factors, including housing demand, housing inventory levels, housing affordability, foreclosure rates, geographical shifts in the population and other changes in demographics, the availability of land, local zoning and permitting processes, the availability of construction financing and the health of the economy and mortgage markets. Unfavorable changes in any of these factors beyond our control could adversely affect consumer spending, result in decreased demand for homes and adversely affect our business.. 9. Table of Contents. The homebuilding industry experienced a significant downturn from 2007 to 2011. This decrease in homebuilding activity led to a steep decline in wallboard demand which, in turn, had a significant adverse effect on our business during this time. Since that time U.S. housing starts have recovered and, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, reached 1.2 million in 2017. Despite the growth over this period, U.S. housing start activity remains below their long-term historical averages. In addition, some analysts project that the demand for residential construction may be negatively impacted as the number of renting households has increased in recent years and a shortage in the supply of affordable housing is expected to result in lower home ownership rates. The timing and extent of the continued recovery in homebuilding and the resulting impact on demand for our products are uncertain. Further, even if homebuilding activity fully recovers, the impact of such recovery on our business may be suppressed if, for example, the average selling price or average size of new single family homes decreases, which could cause homebuilders to decrease spending on our services and the products we distribute.. Beginning in 2007, the mortgage markets were also substantially disrupted as a result of increased defaults, primarily due to weakened credit quality of homeowners. In reaction to the disruption in the mortgage markets, stricter regulations and financial requirements were adopted and the availability of mortgages for potential homebuyers was significantly reduced as a result of a limited credit market and stricter standards to qualify for mortgages. Mortgage financing and commercial credit for smaller homebuilders, as well as for the development of new residential lots, continue to be constrained. If the residential construction industry continues to experience weakness and a reduction in activity, our business, financial condition and operating results will be significantly and adversely affected.. We also rely, in part, on home R&R activity. High unemployment levels, high mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates, lower home prices, limited availability of mortgage and home improvement financing and significantly lower housing turnover may restrict consumer spending, particularly on discretionary items such as home improvement projects, and affect consumer confidence levels leading to reduced spending in the R&R end markets. We cannot predict the timing or strength of a significant recovery in R&R activity, if any. Furthermore, consumer preferences and purchasing practices and the strategies of our customers may adjust in a manner that could result in changes to the nature and prices of products demanded by the end consumer and our customers and could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our industry and the markets in which we operate are highly fragmented and competitive, and increased competitive pressure may adversely affect our results.. We currently compete in the wallboard, ceilings and complementary interior construction products distribution markets primarily with smaller distributors, but we also face competition from a number of national and multi-regional distributors of building materials, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources than us.. Competition varies depending on product line, type of customer and geographic area. If our competitors have greater financial resources, they may be able to offer higher levels of service or a broader selection of inventory than we can. As a result, we may not be able to continue to compete effectively with our competitors. Any of our competitors may (i) foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, (ii) provide superior service and sell or distribute superior products, (iii) have the ability to supply or deliver similar products and services at a lower cost, (iv) develop stronger relationships with our customers and other consumers in the industry in which we operate, (v) adapt more quickly to evolving customer requirements than we do, (vi) develop a superior network of distribution centers in our markets or (vii) access financing on more favorable terms than we can obtain. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors.. Competition can also reduce demand for our products, negatively affect our product sales or cause us to lower prices. The consolidation of homebuilders may result in increased competition for their business. Certain product manufacturers that sell and distribute their products directly to homebuilders may increase the volume of such direct sales. Our suppliers may also elect to enter into exclusive supplier arrangements with other distributors.. Our customers consider the performance of the products we distribute, our customer service and price when deciding whether to use our services or purchase the products we distribute. Excess industry capacity for certain products in several geographic markets could lead to increased price competition. We may be unable to maintain our operating costs or product prices at a level that is sufficiently low for us to compete effectively. If we are unable to. 10. Table of Contents. compete effectively with our existing competitors or new competitors enter the markets in which we operate, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected.. We are subject to significant pricing pressures.. Large contractors and homebuilders in both the commercial and residential industries have historically been able to exert significant pressure on their outside suppliers and distributors to keep prices low in the highly fragmented building products supply and services industry. The downturn from 2007 to 2011 in the construction industry significantly increased the pricing pressures from homebuilders and other customers. In addition, continued consolidation in the commercial and residential industries and changes in builders' purchasing policies and payment practices could result in even further pricing pressure. A decline in the prices of the products we distribute could adversely impact our operating results. When the prices of the products we distribute decline, customer demand for lower prices could result in lower sales prices and, to the extent that our inventory at the time was purchased at higher costs, lower margins. Alternatively, due to the rising market price environment, our suppliers may increase prices or reduce discounts on the products we distribute and we may be unable to pass on any cost increase to our customers, thereby resulting in reduced margins and profits. Overall, these pricing pressures may adversely affect our operating results and cash flows.. The trend toward consolidation in our industry may negatively impact our business.. Customer demands and supplier capabilities have resulted in consolidation in our industry, which could cause markets to become more competitive as greater economies of scale are achieved by distributors that are able to efficiently expand their operations. We believe these customer demands could result in fewer overall distributors operating multiple locations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively take advantage of this trend toward consolidation which may make it more difficult for us to maintain operating margins and could also increase the competition for acquisition targets in our industry, resulting in higher acquisition costs and prices.. We may be unable to successfully implement our growth strategy, which includes pursuing strategic acquisitions and opening new branches.. Our long-term business strategy depends in part on increasing our sales and growing our market share through strategic acquisitions and opening new branches. If we fail to identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets on appropriate terms, our growth strategy may be materially and adversely affected. Further, if our operating results decline as a result of reduced activity in the residential or commercial construction markets, we may be unable to obtain the capital required to effect new acquisitions or open new branches.. In addition, we may not be able to integrate the operations of future acquired businesses in an efficient and cost-effective manner or without significant disruption to our existing operations. Moreover, acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including uncertainties as to the future financial performance of the acquired business, difficulties integrating acquired personnel and corporate cultures into our business, the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers, difficulties in integrating different computer and accounting systems, exposure to unknown or unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, difficulties implementing disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting for the acquired businesses, and the diversion of management attention and resources from existing operations. We may be unable to successfully complete potential acquisitions due to multiple factors, such as issues related to regulatory review of the proposed transactions. We may also be required to incur additional debt in order to consummate acquisitions in the future, which debt may be substantial and may limit our flexibility in using our cash flow from operations. Our failure to integrate future acquired businesses effectively or to manage other consequences of our acquisitions, including increased indebtedness, could prevent us from remaining competitive and, ultimately, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing our equity securities or securities convertible into our equity securities, our existing stockholders would be diluted, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We could also finance an acquisition with debt, resulting in higher leverage and interest costs relating to the acquisition. As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions efficiently, we may not ultimately experience the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, and we may incur costs that exceed our expectations.. 11. Table of Contents. We may not be able to expand into new geographic markets, which may impact our ability to grow our business.. We intend to continue to pursue our growth strategy to expand into new geographic markets for the foreseeable future. Our expansion into new geographic markets may present competitive, distribution and other challenges that differ from the challenges we currently face. In addition, we may be less familiar with the customers in these markets and may ultimately face different or additional risks, as well as increased or unexpected costs, compared to those we experience in our existing markets. Expansion into new geographic markets may also expose us to direct competition with companies with whom we have limited or no past experience as competitors. To the extent we rely upon expanding into new geographic markets and do not meet, or are unprepared for, any new challenges posed by such expansion, our future sales growth could be negatively impacted, our operating costs could increase, and our business operations and financial results could be negatively affected.. We may be unable to fully realize expected benefits from our recent acquisition of Titan.. On June 1, 2018, we acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of WSB Titan (\"Titan\"), a distributer of drywall, lumber, commercial and residential building materials. Titan is Canada's largest gypsum specialty distributer with 30 locations across five provinces in Canada. We expect to achieve operating and capital synergies as a result of our acquisition of Titan. If we are unable to successfully integrate the business, or integrate them in a timely fashion, we may face material adverse effects including, but not limited to the diversion of the attention of management and key personnel and potential disruption of our ongoing businesses; customer losses; the loss of quality employees; adverse developments in vendor relationships; declines in our results of operations and financial condition; and a decline in the market price of our common stock. Even if we successfully integrate the businesses, there can be no assurance that the integration will result in the realization of the full benefit of the anticipated synergies and cost savings or that these benefits will be realized within the expected time frames.. Product shortages, loss of key suppliers or failure to develop relationships with qualified suppliers, and our dependence on third-party suppliers and manufacturers could affect our financial health.. We distribute wallboard, ceilings and related specialty building materials that are manufactured by a number of major suppliers. Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate product supply from manufacturers and other suppliers. Generally, the products we distribute are obtainable from various sources and in sufficient quantities. Any disruption in our sources of supply, particularly of the most commonly sold items, could result in a loss of revenues, reduced margins and damage to our relationships with customers. Supply shortages may occur as a result of unanticipated increases in demand, shortage of raw materials, including the availability of synthetic gypsum, or difficulties in production or delivery. When shortages occur, our suppliers often allocate products among distributors. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of, products from our suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements, such as those whereby we are afforded exclusive distribution rights in certain geographic areas, could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. For example, if our relationship with Armstrong were to be damaged or lost, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows may suffer.. Our ability to maintain relationships with qualified suppliers who can satisfy our high standards for quality and our need to be supplied with products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge. Our suppliers' ability to provide us with products can also be adversely affected in the event they become financially unstable, particularly in light of continuing economic difficulties in various regions of the United States and the world, fail to comply with applicable laws, encounter supply disruptions, shipping interruptions or increased costs, or they become faced with other factors beyond our control.. Although in some instances we have agreements with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. If market conditions change, suppliers may stop offering us favorable terms. Failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with products on favorable terms, commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could put pressure on our operating margins or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. 12. Table of Contents. The commercial and residential construction markets are seasonal.. The markets in which we operate are seasonal. Although weather patterns affect our operating results throughout the year, the months of November through February have historically been, and are generally expected to continue to be, adversely affected by weather patterns in some of our markets, causing reduced commercial and residential construction activity. We experience seasonal variation as a result of our customers' dependence on suitable weather to engage in construction, R&R projects. For example, during the winter months, construction activity generally declines due to inclement weather and shorter daylight hours. In addition, to the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, earthquakes, floods, fires, other natural disasters or similar events occur in the markets in which we operate, our business may be adversely affected. As a result, our operating results have historically varied significantly between fiscal quarters, and we anticipate that we will continue to experience these quarterly fluctuations in the future.. The loss of any of our significant customers or a reduction in the quantity of products they purchase could affect our financial health.. Our ten largest customers generated approximately 8.5%, 8.7% and 9.0% of our net sales in the aggregate for fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We cannot guarantee that we will maintain or improve our relationships with these customers, or successfully assume the customer relationships of any businesses that we acquire, or that we will continue to supply these customers at historical levels. Due to the weak housing market in recent years in comparison to long-term averages, many of our homebuilder customers substantially reduced their construction activity. Some of our homebuilder customers exited or severely curtailed building activity in certain of our markets.. In addition, professional homebuilders, commercial builders and other customers may: (i) purchase some of the products that we currently sell and distribute directly from manufacturers; (ii) elect to establish their own building products manufacturing and distribution facilities; or (iii) give advantages to manufacturing or distribution intermediaries in which they have an economic stake. Continued consolidation among professional homebuilders and commercial builders could also result in a loss of some of our present customers to our competitors. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or deterioration in our existing relationships with any of our customers could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Furthermore, our customers typically are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us. Should our customers purchase the products we distribute in significantly lower quantities than they have in the past, or should the customers of any businesses that we acquire purchase products from us in significantly lower quantities than they had prior to our acquisition of the business, such decreased purchases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We are exposed to product liability, warranty, casualty, construction defect, contract, tort, employment and other claims and legal proceedings related to our business, the products we distribute, the services we provide and services provided for us by third parties.. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to various claims and litigation. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management's attention and resources. The building materials industry has been subject to personal injury and property damage claims arising from alleged exposure to raw materials contained in building products as well as claims for incidents of catastrophic loss, such as building fires. As a distributor of building materials, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of the products we have distributed in the past or may in the future distribute is alleged to have resulted in economic loss, personal injury or property damage or violated environmental, health or safety or other laws. Such product liability claims have included and may in the future include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability or a breach of warranties. In particular, certain of our subsidiaries have been the subject of claims related to alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products they distributed prior to 1979, which have not materially impacted our financial condition or operating results. See \"Item 3, Legal Proceedings.\" We are also from time to time subject to casualty, contract, tort and other claims relating to our business, the products we have distributed in the past or may in the future distribute, and the services we have provided in the past or may in the future provide, either directly or through third parties. If any such claim were adversely determined, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected if we were unable to seek indemnification for such claims or were not adequately insured for such claims. We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with the products we sell or distribute. Since we do not have direct. 13. Table of Contents. control over the quality of products that are manufactured or supplied to us by third-parties, we are particularly vulnerable to risks relating to the quality of such products. In addition, we are exposed to potential claims arising from the conduct of our employees, builders and their subcontractors, and third-party installers for which we may be liable. We and they are subject to regulatory requirements and risks applicable to general contractors, which include management of licensing, permitting and quality of third-party installers. As they apply to our business, if we fail to manage these processes effectively or provide proper oversight of these services, we could suffer lost sales, fines and lawsuits, as well as damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and the results of our operations.. In addition, claims and investigations may arise related to distributor relationships, commercial contracts, antitrust or competition law requirements, employment matters, employee benefits issues and other compliance and regulatory matters, including anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters. While we have processes and policies designed to mitigate these risks and to investigate and address such claims as they arise, we cannot predict or, in some cases, control the costs to defend or resolve such claims.. Although we believe we currently maintain suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that such insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities, and the cost of any product liability, warranty, casualty, construction defect, contract, tort, employment or other litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Additionally, we do not carry insurance for all categories of risk that our business may encounter. Any significant uninsured liability may require us to pay substantial amounts. There can be no assurance that any current or future claims will not adversely affect our financial position, cash flows or results of operations.. Our operations are subject to various hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage and increase our operating costs, and which may exceed the coverage of our insurance.. There are inherent risks to our operations. Our delivery employees are subject to the usual hazards associated with providing services on construction sites, while our distribution center personnel are subject to the hazards associated with moving and storing large quantities of heavy materials. In addition, we employ drivers in connection with our distribution operations and, from time to time, these drivers are involved in accidents which may cause injuries and in which goods carried by these drivers may be lost or damaged. Our trucks with articulating boom loaders, particularly when loaded, expose our drivers and others to traffic hazards.. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, building and equipment and environmental damage, and we cannot eliminate these risks. We maintain vehicle and commercial insurance to cover property damages and personal injuries resulting from traffic accidents, and rely on state mandated social insurance for work-related injuries of our employees. Nevertheless, any claim that exceeds the scope of our insurance coverage, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could result in the incurrence of substantial costs and the diversion of resources, which could have a material adverse effect on us. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, claims for lost or damaged goods, liability claims, workers' compensation claims, or unfavorable resolutions of any such claims could also adversely affect our results of operations to the extent such claims are not covered by our insurance or such losses exceed our reserves. Further, significant increases in insurance costs or the inability to purchase insurance as a result of these claims could reduce our profitability and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The timing of the incurrence of these costs could significantly and adversely impact our operating results compared to prior periods.. Failure to attract and retain key employees could have a significant adverse effect on our business.. Our success depends to a large extent on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, operational, sales and other personnel. We face significant competition for qualified and experienced employees in our industry and from other industries and, as a result, we may be unable to attract and retain the personnel needed to successfully conduct and grow our operations. Additionally, key personnel, including members of management and our sales team with key customer relationships, may leave and compete against us.. Our continued success also depends to a significant degree on the continued service of our senior management team. With an average of over 25 years of experience in the building products distribution sector, our senior. 14. Table of Contents. management team has been integral to our successful acquisition and integration of businesses to grow our market share. The loss of any member of our senior management team or other experienced, senior employees or sales team members could significantly impair our ability to execute our business plan, cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, or lead to challenges with employee morale and the loss of other key employees. In any such event, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Additionally, the downturn from 2007 to 2011 in the general economy and the markets we serve resulted in a reduction of the workforce in the construction industry. There can be no assurance that we or our customers will be able to efficiently attract employees as activity in the markets we serve returns to historical levels. As a result, we and our customers may experience higher costs in attracting and retaining such employees. Any significant increases in these costs may have an adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations.. Higher health care costs and labor costs could adversely affect our business.. As a result of the passage in 2010 of the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or the ACA, we are required to provide affordable coverage, as defined in the ACA, to all employees, or otherwise be subject to a payment per employee based on the affordability criteria in the ACA. Additionally, some states and localities have passed state and local laws mandating the provision of certain levels of health benefits by some employers. Efforts to modify, repeal or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ACA and/or adopt a replacement healthcare reform law may impact our employee healthcare costs. At this time, there is uncertainty concerning whether the ACA will be repealed or what requirements will be included in a new law, if enacted. Increased health care and insurance costs as well as other changes in federal or state workplace regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Various federal and state labor laws govern our relationships with our employees and affect our operating costs. These laws include employee classifications as exempt or non-exempt, minimum wage requirements, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, overtime, family leave, safety standards, payroll taxes, citizenship requirements and other wage and benefit requirements for employees classified as non-exempt. As our employees may be paid at rates that relate to the applicable minimum wage, further increases in the minimum wage could increase our labor costs. Significant additional government regulations could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we compete with other companies for many of our employees in hourly positions, and we invest significant resources to train and motivate our employees to maintain a high level of job satisfaction. Our hourly employment positions have historically had high turnover rates, which can lead to increased spending on training and retention and, as a result, increased labor costs. If we are unable to effectively retain highly qualified employees in the future, it could adversely impact our operating results.. The majority of our net sales are credit sales that are made primarily to customers whose ability to pay is dependent, in part, upon the economic strength of the industry and geographic areas in which they operate, and the failure to collect or timely collect monies owed from customers could adversely affect our financial condition.. The majority of our net sales volume is facilitated through the extension of credit to our customers whose ability to pay is dependent, in part, upon the economic strength of the industry in the areas where they operate. We offer credit to customers, either through unsecured credit that is based solely upon the creditworthiness of the customer, or secured credit for materials sold for a specific construction project where we establish a security interest in the material used in the project. The type of credit we offer depends both on the customer's financial strength and the nature of the business in which the customer is involved. End users, resellers and other non-contractor customers typically purchase more on unsecured credit than secured credit. If any of our customers are unable to repay credit that we have extended in a timely manner, or at all, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows would be adversely affected. Further, our collections efforts with respect to non-paying or slow-paying customers could negatively impact our customer relations going forward.. Because we depend on certain of our customers to repay extensions of credit, if the financial condition of our customers declines, our credit risk could increase as a result. Significant contraction in the commercial and residential construction markets, coupled with limited credit availability and stricter financial institution underwriting standards,. 15. Table of Contents. could adversely affect the operations and financial stability of certain of our customers. Should one or more of our larger customers declare bankruptcy, it could adversely affect the collectability of our accounts receivable, bad debt reserves and net income.. We occupy many of our facilities under long-term non-cancellable leases, and we may be unable to renew our leases at the end of their terms.. Many of our facilities and distribution centers are located on leased premises subject to non-cancellable leases. Typically, our leases have initial terms ranging from three to five years, with options to renew for specified periods of time. We believe that our future leases will likely also be long-term and non-cancellable and have similar renewal options. If we close or stop fully utilizing a facility, we will most likely remain obligated to perform under the applicable lease, which would include, among other things, making the base rent payments, and paying insurance, taxes and other expenses on the leased property for the remainder of the lease term. Our future minimum aggregate rental commitments for leases for our facilities and distribution centers, as of April 30, 2018, was $113.6 million, of which $112.6 million is currently not reflected as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Our inability to terminate a lease when we stop fully utilizing a facility or exit a geographic market can have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. In addition, at the end of the lease term and any renewal period for a facility, we may be unable to renew the lease without substantial additional cost, if at all. If we are unable to renew our facility leases, we may close or relocate a facility, which could subject us to construction and other costs and risks, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Further, we may not be able to secure a replacement facility in a location that is as commercially viable, including access to rail service, as the lease we are unable to renew. Having to close a facility, even briefly to relocate, would reduce the sales that such facility would have contributed to our revenues. Additionally, a relocated facility may generate less revenue and profit, if any, than the facility it was established to replace.. We may be unable to effectively manage our inventory and working capital as our sales volume increases or the prices of the products we distribute fluctuate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We purchase certain products, including wallboard, ceilings, steel framing and other specialty building materials, from manufacturers which are then sold and distributed to customers. We must maintain, and have adequate working capital to purchase, sufficient inventory to meet customer demand. Due to the lead times required by our suppliers, we order products in advance of expected sales. As a result, we are required to forecast our sales and purchase accordingly. In periods characterized by significant changes in economic growth and activity in the commercial and residential building and home R&R industries, it can be especially difficult to forecast our sales accurately. We must also manage our working capital to fund our inventory purchases. Excessive increases in the market prices of certain building products, such as wallboard, ceilings and steel framing, can put negative pressure on our operating cash flows by requiring us to invest more in inventory. In the future, if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory and working capital as we attempt to expand our business, our cash flows may be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. An impairment of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. As April 30, 2018, we had $427.6 million of goodwill. We perform an impairment test of our goodwill annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or when events occur or circumstances change that would more-likely-than-not indicate that goodwill might be impaired. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. Our annual impairment tests resulted in no impairment of goodwill during fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016. However, deterioration in estimated future cash flows in our reporting units could result in future goodwill impairment. Changes to our business strategy, changes in industry or market conditions, changes in operating performance or other indicators of impairment could cause us to record a significant impairment charge during the period in which the impairment is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations and financial position.. 16. Table of Contents. Federal, state, local and other regulations could impose substantial costs and restrictions on our operations that would reduce our net income.. We are subject to various federal, state, local and other laws and regulations, including, among other things, transportation regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Transportation, or the DOT, work safety regulations promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, employment regulations promulgated by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, regulations of the U.S. Department of Labor, accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or similar entities, and state and local zoning restrictions, building codes and contractors' licensing regulations. More burdensome regulatory requirements in these or other areas may increase our general and administrative costs and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Moreover, failure to comply with the regulatory requirements applicable to our business could expose us to litigation and substantial fines and penalties that could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Our transportation operations, upon which we depend to distribute products from our distribution centers, are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the DOT, which has broad administrative powers with respect to our transportation operations. Vehicle dimensions and driver hours of service also are subject to both federal and state regulation. More restrictive limitations on vehicle weight and size, trailer length and configuration, or driver hours of service would increase our costs, which, if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers, may increase our selling, general and administrative expenses and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If we fail to comply adequately with the DOT regulations or regulations become more stringent, we could experience increased inspections, regulatory authorities could take remedial action including imposing fines or shutting down our operations or we could be subject to increased audit and compliance costs. If any of these events were to occur, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows would be adversely affected.. In addition, the commercial and residential construction industries are subject to various local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, codes, rules and regulations concerning zoning, building design and safety, construction, contractor licensing, energy conservation and similar matters, including regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements on the residential new construction industry or that limit the number of homes or other buildings that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Regulatory restrictions may increase our operating expenses and limit the availability of suitable building lots for our customers, any of which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could be expensive. Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could subject us to significant liability.. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, air emissions, water discharges, waste management and disposal, product safety and the health and safety of our employees and customers. These laws and regulations impose a variety of requirements and restrictions on our operations and the products we distribute. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties, enforcement actions, third party claims, damage to property or natural resources and personal injury, requirements to investigate or cleanup property or to pay for the costs of investigation or cleanup, or regulatory or judicial orders requiring corrective measures, including the installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions and could negatively impact our reputation with customers. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations applicable to our business, the products we distribute and the business of our customers, and the interpretation or enforcement of these laws and regulations, are constantly evolving and it is difficult to accurately predict the effect that changes in these laws and regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may have upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Should environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, become more stringent, our costs, or the costs of our customers, could increase, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, such as the U.S. federal Superfund law or its state equivalents, the obligation to investigate, remediate, monitor and clean up contamination at a facility may be imposed on current and former owners, lessees or operators or on persons who may have sent waste to that facility for disposal. Liability under these laws and regulations may be imposed without regard to fault or to the legality of the activities. 17. Table of Contents. giving rise to the contamination. Contamination has been identified at several of our current and former facilities, and we have incurred and will continue to incur costs to investigate, remediate, monitor and otherwise address these conditions. Moreover, we may incur liabilities in connection with environmental conditions currently unknown to us relating to our prior, existing or future owned or leased sites or operations or those of predecessor companies whose liabilities we may have assumed or acquired.. Any significant fuel cost increases or shortages in the supply of fuel could disrupt our ability to distribute products to our customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We currently use our own fleet of owned and leased delivery vehicles to service customers in the regions in which we operate. As a result, we are inherently dependent upon energy to operate and are impacted by changes in fuel prices. The cost of fuel is largely unpredictable and has a significant impact on our results of operations. Fuel availability, as well as pricing, is also impacted by political, economic and market factors that are outside our control. It is difficult to predict the future availability of fuel due to the following factors, among others:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimited refining capacity; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe possibility of changes in governmental policies on fuel production, transportation and marketing.. Significant increases in the cost of fuel or disruptions in the supply of fuel could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Cybersecurity breaches could harm our business.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. We have incurred costs and may incur significant additional costs in order to implement the security measures that we feel are appropriate to protect our IT systems. Our security measures are focused on the prevention, detection and remediation of damage from computer viruses, natural or man-made disasters, unauthorized access, cyber attacks and other similar disruptions. Despite our security measures, our IT systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. To date, we have not experienced a material breach of our IT systems. Any attacks on our IT systems could result in our systems or data being breached or damaged by computer viruses or unauthorized physical or electronic access. Such a breach could result in not only business disruption, but also theft of our intellectual property or other competitive information or unauthorized access to controlled data and any personal information stored in our IT systems. To the extent that any data is lost or destroyed or any confidential information is inappropriately disclosed or used, it could adversely affect our competitive position or customer relationships. In addition, any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, damage our reputation and cause a loss of confidence in our business, products and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows.. A disruption of our IT systems could adversely impact our business and operations.. We rely on the accuracy, capacity and security of our IT systems, some of which are managed or hosted by third parties, and our ability to continually update these systems in response to the changing needs of our business. Our IT systems and those of our third-party service providers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados, floods and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, capacity limitations, telecommunications failures, software and hardware defects or malfunctions, break-ins, sabotage and vandalism, human error and other disruptions that are beyond our control. We continue to invest capital to enhance, expand and increase the reliability of our network, but these capital expenditures may not achieve the results we expect. The occurrence of any disruption or system failure or other significant disruption to business continuity may result in a loss of business, increase expenses, damage our reputation or expose us to litigation and possible financial losses, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.. 18. Table of Contents. Natural or man-made disruptions to our facilities may adversely affect our business and operations.. We currently maintain a broad network of distribution facilities throughout the United States and Canada, as well as our corporate headquarters in Tucker, Georgia, which supports our branches with various back office functions. In the event any of our facilities are damaged or operations are disrupted from fire, earthquake, hurricanes and other weather-related events, an act of terrorism or any other cause, a significant portion of our inventory could be damaged and our ability to distribute products to customers could be materially impaired. Moreover, we could incur significantly higher costs and experience longer lead times associated with distributing products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace a damaged facility. Disruptions to the national or local transportation infrastructure systems, including those related to a domestic terrorist attack, may also affect our ability to keep our operations and services functioning properly. If any of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Anti-terrorism measures and other disruptions to the transportation network could impact our distribution system and our operations.. Our ability to efficiently distribute products to our customers is an integral component of our overall business strategy. In the aftermath of terrorist attacks in the United States, federal, state and local authorities have implemented and continue to implement various security measures that affect many parts of the transportation network in the United States. Our customers typically need quick delivery and rely on our on-time delivery capabilities. If security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers, or may incur increased expenses to do so.. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities and we may be limited in the use of our net operating losses in the future.. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.. Our Canadian operations could have a material adverse effect on us.. On June 1, 2018, we acquired Titan, a distributer of drywall, lumber, commercial and residential building materials. Titan is Canada's largest gypsum specialty distributer with 30 locations across five provinces in Canada. We are now subject to a number of risks specific to this country. We may also become subject to risks specific to other countries where we may complete acquisitions. These risks include social, political and economic instability, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, currency exchange fluctuations, acts of war or terrorism and import/export requirements. Our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars with international transactions being translated into U.S. dollars. Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations could be material in fiscal year 2019 and future years to the extent that currency rate changes are significant or that our international operations comprise a larger percentage of our consolidated results. We do not currently hedge the net investments in our foreign operations. There can be no assurances that any of these factors will not materially impact our production cost or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Our Liquidity and Capital Resources. The agreements that govern our indebtedness contain various financial covenants that could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our best long-term interests.. The agreements that govern our indebtedness include covenants that, among other things, may impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in activities that may be in our best long-term interests. These covenants may restrict our ability to:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional indebtedness;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreate or maintain liens on property or assets;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake investments, loans and advances;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsell certain assets or engage in acquisitions, mergers or consolidations;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tredeem debt;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends and distributions; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into transactions with affiliates.. In addition, under the terms of our senior secured asset based revolving credit facility (the \"ABL Facility\"), we may at times be required to comply with a specified fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to meet this ratio could be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that we will meet this ratio.. A breach of any of the covenants under any of our debt agreements would result in a default under such agreement. If any such default occurs, the administrative agent under the agreement would be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the agreement and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. This could have serious adverse consequences on our financial condition and could cause us to become insolvent.. Our current indebtedness, degree of leverage and any future indebtedness we may incur, may adversely affect our cash flow, limit our operational and financing flexibility and negatively impact our business and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and declare dividends and make other distributions.. As of June 1, 2018, after giving effect to the debt financing for our Titan acquisition, $996.8 million was outstanding under our senior secured first lien term loan facility (\"the First Lien Facility\") and $172.2 million was available for future borrowings under our ABL Facility. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future. The ABL Facility, First Lien Facility and other debt instruments we may enter into in the future, may have significant consequences to our business and, as a result, may impact our stockholders, including:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpairing our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flows from operations to pay interest on any outstanding indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaking it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaking us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tplacing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and, therefore, more able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpairing our ability to refinance existing indebtedness or borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestricting our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadversely affecting our credit ratings.. Any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of. 20. Table of Contents. operations.. Furthermore, we expect that we will depend primarily on cash generated by our operations in order to pay our expenses and any amounts due under our existing indebtedness and any future indebtedness we may incur. As a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness depends on the future performance of our business, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which we cannot control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future and we may not achieve our currently anticipated growth in revenues and cash flows, either or both of which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. If we do not have enough funds, we may be required to refinance all or part of our then existing indebtedness, sell assets or borrow additional funds, in each case on terms that may not be acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including our existing ABL Facility, may restrict us from engaging in any of these alternatives. Our ability to recapitalize and incur additional debt in the future could also delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, make certain transactions more difficult to complete or impose additional financial or other covenants on us.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt.. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, including secured debt. Although the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness, including obligations under lease arrangements that are currently recorded as operating leases even if operating leases were to be treated as debt under GAAP. In addition, the ABL Facility provides a commitment of up to $345.0 million, subject to a borrowing base. As of June 1, 2018, we were able to borrow an additional $172.2 million under the ABL Facility. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability.. Our First Lien Facility and ABL Facility bear interest at variable rates. We have entered into interest rate caps with the objective of minimizing the risks associated with our First Lien Facility. However, increases in interest rates with respect to any amount of our debt not covered by the interest rate cap could increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. Excluding the effect of the interest rate caps and the interest rate floor on the First Lien Facility, each 1% increase in interest rates on the First Lien Facility would increase our annual interest expense by $10.0 million based on balances outstanding under the First Lien Facility as of June 1, 2018. Assuming the ABL Facility was fully drawn up to the $345.0 million maximum commitment, each 1% increase in interest rates would result in a $3.5 million increase in annual interest expense on the ABL Facility. The impact of increases in interest rates could be more significant for us than it would be for some other comparable companies because of our substantial indebtedness.. We may have future capital needs that require us to incur additional debt and may be unable to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all.. We rely substantially on the liquidity provided by our existing ABL Facility and cash on hand to provide working capital and fund our operations. Our working capital and capital expenditure requirements are likely to grow as the commercial and residential construction markets improve and we execute our strategic growth plan. Economic and credit market conditions, the performance of the commercial and residential construction markets, and our financial performance, as well as other factors, may constrain our financing abilities. Our ability to secure additional financing, if available, and to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, the availability of credit, economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The prolonged continuation or worsening of current housing market conditions and the macroeconomic factors that affect our industry could require us to seek additional capital and have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure such capital on favorable terms, if at all.. We may be unable to secure additional financing or financing on favorable terms or our operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. If additional funds are raised. 21. Table of Contents. through the issuance of additional equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future, including secured debt, subject to the restrictions contained in the ABL Facility and the First Lien Facility. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. Because we are a holding company with no operations of our own, we are financially dependent on receiving distributions from our subsidiaries and we could be harmed if such distributions could not be made in the future.. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through subsidiaries. Consequently, we rely on payments or distributions from our subsidiaries. We do not currently expect to declare or pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future; however, to the extent that we determine in the future to pay dividends on our common stock, we will be dependent on our subsidiaries to make funds available to us for the payment of such dividends. The ability of such subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us is subject to applicable local law. Such laws and restrictions could limit the payment of dividends and distributions to us, which would restrict our ability to continue operations. In addition, the terms of the agreements governing the ABL Facility and the First Lien Facility restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, make loans or otherwise transfer assets to us. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are permitted under the terms of the ABL Facility and the First Lien Facility to incur additional indebtedness that may restrict or prohibit the making of distributions, the payment of dividends or the making of loans by such subsidiaries to us.. Some of our subsidiaries sponsor deferred compensation arrangements that entitle selected employees of those subsidiaries to participate in increases in the adjusted book value of a specified number of shares of common stock of those subsidiaries. Employees participate in these arrangements through cash-based stock appreciation rights, by holding common stock of the applicable subsidiary and/or through deferred compensation programs. As of April 30, 2018, we have reflected an aggregate fair value of $40.3 million of liabilities related to these compensation arrangements on our consolidated balance sheet, of which $0.9 million is classified as a current liability and the remainder is classified as a long-term liability. Upon termination of employment of those with whom we have these arrangements, these subsidiaries are required to make payments to these individuals. Settlements of these awards are typically made with cash or through execution of an installment note payable to the employee over a period of four to five years. Any requirement to make payments to employees pursuant to these deferred compensation arrangements could impact the cash flows of these subsidiaries and their ability to make funds available to us.. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile.. The trading price of our common stock could be volatile. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Finally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted stock incentive awards. The following events and factors, in addition to other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements of innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany adverse changes to our relationship with our customers, manufacturers or suppliers;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvariations in the costs of products that we distribute;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany legal actions in which we may become involved;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements concerning our competitors or the building supply industry in general;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tachievement of expected product sales and profitability;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmanufacture, supply or distribution shortages;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our services or the products we distribute;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in financial estimates;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in recommendations or reduced coverage by securities analysts;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttrading volume of our common stock;. 22. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of our common stock by us, our executive officers and directors or our stockholders (including certain affiliates of AEA) in the future;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in accounting principles;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe loss of any of our management or key personnel;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket trends unelated to our performance; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic and market conditions and overall fluctuations in the U.S. equity markets.. We may be subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could divert management attention.. Our share price may be volatile and, in the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could adversely impact our business. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities.. AEA may influence major corporate decisions or their interests may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock.. Certain affiliates of AEA beneficially own approximately 16.6% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result of this control, AEA is able to influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders and/or our board of directors, including the election of directors and the approval of business combinations or dispositions and other extraordinary transactions. AEA may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our Company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our Company and may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, AEA may in the future own businesses that directly compete with ours.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.. As of April 30, 2018, we had 2.5 million shares authorized for issuance under the GMS Inc. Equity Incentive Plan, of which approximately 2.4 million shares were still available for grant. In addition, as of April 30, 2018, there were 2.0 million outstanding options to purchase our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $14.37 per share and 21,766 outstanding restricted stock units. The exercise and vesting of equity awards will result in dilution of the value of our common stock and could also depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of stock by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Moreover, certain holders of our common stock have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares held by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Any sales of securities by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of the ABL Facility, the First Lien Facility and any future debt agreements may preclude our subsidiaries from paying dividends to us which, in turn, may preclude us from paying dividends to our stockholders. As a result, we expect that only appreciation of the price of our common stock, if any, will provide a return to investors in our common stock for the foreseeable future.. 23. Table of Contents. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the New York Stock Exchange, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the corporate governance standards of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the New York Stock Exchange. These requirements place a strain on our management, systems and resources and we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses. Furthermore, as we grow our business both organically and through acquisitions, our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting will become more complex, and we may require significantly more resources to ensure that these controls and procedures remain effective. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting and comply with the Exchange Act and the New York Stock Exchange requirements, significant resources and management oversight will be required. This may divert management's attention from other business concerns and lead to significant costs associated with compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on us and the price of our common stock.. These requirements and standards could be difficult and will be significantly more expensive to obtain directors' and officers' liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage available to a non-public company. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Advocacy efforts by shareholders and third parties may also prompt even more changes in governance and reporting requirements. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of these costs.. If we experience material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may not be able to accurately or timely report our financial condition or results of operations, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. We are required to comply with the SEC's rules implementing Section 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, as well as a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the past, which have since been remediated. However, there can be no assurance that we will not identify additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. If we identify future material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting or if we are unable to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results, or report them within the timeframes required by the SEC. We also could become subject to sanctions or investigations by the New York Stock Exchange, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. In addition, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, we may face restricted access to the capital markets and our stock price may be adversely affected.. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions include:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablishing a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board are elected at one time;. 24. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tallowing the total number of directors to be determined exclusively (subject to the rights of holders of any series of preferred stock to elect additional directors) by resolution of our board of directors and granting to our board the sole power (subject to the rights of holders of any series of preferred stock or rights granted pursuant to the stockholders' agreement) to fill any vacancy on the board;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting the ability of stockholders to remove directors without cause;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock by our board of directors, without further shareholder approval, to thwart a takeover attempt;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibiting stockholder action by written consent (and, thus, requiring that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders);. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at annual stockholder meetings; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power of all outstanding stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, to amend or repeal our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws if AEA.. In addition, while we have opted out of Section 203 of the DGCL, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains similar provisions providing that we may not engage in certain \"business combinations\" with any \"interested stockholder\" for a three-year period following the time that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprior to such time, our board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tupon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding certain shares; or. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tat or subsequent to that time, the business combination is approved by our board of directors and by the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder.. Generally, a \"business combination\" includes a merger, asset or stock sale or other transaction provided for or through our Company resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Subject to certain exceptions, an \"interested stockholder\" is a person who owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock and the affiliates and associates of such person. For purposes of this provision, \"voting stock\" means any class or series of stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.. Under certain circumstances, this provision will make it more difficult for a person who would be an \"interested stockholder\" to effect certain business combinations with us for a three-year period. This provision may encourage companies interested in acquiring us to negotiate in advance with our board of directors in order to avoid the stockholder approval requirement if our board of directors approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. These provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in our board of directors and may make it more difficult to accomplish transactions that stockholders may otherwise deem to be in their best interests.. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our Company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those our stockholders desire.. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed to us or our stockholders by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising under the DGCL or (iv) any action. 25. Table of Contents. asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock is deemed to have notice of and have consented to the provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation related to choice of forum. The choice of forum provision in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation may limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
