[1] "Item 1A.     RISK FACTORS.. The following risk factors could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this Annual Report. If any of the following risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. While we believe we will have sufficient cash on hand and amounts available under our new asset-based Revolving Credit Facility to fund the $151.9 million under our Term Loan Facility and an excess cash flow payment, which could be material, due in March 2019, if actual results are below our projections by an amount greater than what is required to satisfy these obligations, it could have a material adverse impact on our ability to sustain operations.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had principal of $1,131.2 million outstanding under its Term Loan Facility with an original maturity date of March 2019. After the effectiveness of the Amendment to our Senior Credit Facility described in Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 18, \"Subsequent Events,\" the amount due in March 2019 under the Term Loan facility is now $151.9 million.  We are also required under the Amendment to make an excess cash flow payment in March 2019, which could be material, based on the projected Consolidated Net First Lien Leverage Ratio for the year ending December 31, 2018.. We expect to close the Securities Purchase Agreement described below under the risk factor titled \"There can be no assurance that the conditions to the Securities Purchase Agreement with Harbin Pharmaceutical Group Holdings Co., Ltd. will be satisfied or that a satisfactory definitive agreement to enter into a China joint venture will be reached\" in the second half of 2018, which will result in approximately $300 million of aggregate proceeds. Under the Amendment, $100 million of the net proceeds from the Securities Purchase Agreement are required to be utilized to pay the Term Loan Facility due March 2021. The remaining net proceeds, after deducting legal and advisory fees, would be available to satisfy the $151.9 million due under the Term Loan Facility in March 2019.  However, there is no assurance that the Securities Purchase Agreement will close prior to March 2019 when the obligation is due.. In the event that Securities Purchase Agreement doesn't close, management has concluded that the Company will have the ability to satisfy the $151.9 million Term Loan Facility and excess cash flow payments due in March 2019 with projected cash on hand and amounts available under the new $100 million asset-based Revolving Credit Facility.  If actual results are below the Company's projections by an amount greater than what is required to satisfy these obligations, management has the ability to reduce certain discretionary payments and will consider certain asset sales, as necessary, to maximize cash available.. As described in Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 7, \"Long-Term Debt / Interest Expense,\" we have concluded that it is probable the Company will have sufficient cash on hand and available liquidity to satisfy the obligations that are due in March 2019.  However, we cannot provide full assurance that the Company will be able to satisfy the above obligations.  If the Company is unable to satisfy these obligations through normal operations or strategic measures described above, we would be in default, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to sustain operations.. Our current and historical effective tax rate may not be indicative of future rates.. On December 22, 2017, United States tax reform legislation known as The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"2017 Tax Act\") was enacted. The 2017 Tax Act made significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code, including a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. This rate reduction is effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017.  The 2017 Tax Act also imposed a potential one-time repatriation and taxation of a company's foreign earnings. See Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 4, \"Income Taxes\" for more information. As a result, our future effective tax rate will likely differ significantly from current and historical rates due to the 2017 Tax Act.  Furthermore, in light of our global earnings mix, future changes in domestic and international tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which we operate as well as changes to our tax positions could also impact the effective tax rate on a prospective basis.. Resources devoted to product innovation may not yield new products that achieve commercial success.. Our ability to develop new and innovative GNC-branded products depends on, among other factors, our ability to understand evolving customer and market trends and our ability to translate these insights into commercially viable new products. If we are unable to do so, our customer relationships and product sales could be harmed significantly. Furthermore, the nutritional supplements industry is characterized by rapid and frequent changes in demand for products and new product introductions. Our failure to accurately predict these trends could negatively impact consumer opinion of our stores as a source for the latest products. This could harm our customer relationships and cause losses to our market share. The development of new and innovative products also requires significant investment in research and development and testing of new ingredients, formulas and possibly new production processes. The R&D process can be expensive and prolonged and entails considerable uncertainty. Products may appear. 13. Table of Contents. promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected time frame, or at all. We may face significant challenges with regard to a key product launch. Further, products also may fail to achieve commercial viability. Finally, there is no guarantee that our development teams will be able to successfully respond to competitive products that could render some of our offerings obsolete. Development of a new product, from discovery through testing to the store shelf, typically takes between four to seven months, but may require an even longer timeline if clinical trials are involved. Each of these time periods can vary considerably from product to product.. We continue to explore new strategic initiatives, including our One New GNC model, but we may not be able to successfully execute on, or realize the expected benefit from the implementation of, our strategic initiatives, and our pursuit of new strategic initiatives may pose significant costs and risks.. We conducted a vast array of consumer tests, pilot programs and other market research throughout 2015 and 2016 as part of our comprehensive review of our customers' experience. Based on this work, we launched our One New GNC single-tier pricing model and new customer loyalty programs, myGNC Rewards and PRO Access, at the end of 2016. Our future operating results are dependent, in part, on our management's success in implementing these and other strategic initiatives. Also, our short-term operating results could be unfavorably impacted by the opportunity and financial costs associated with the implementation of these strategic plans, and we may not realize the expected benefits from such strategies. In addition, we may not be successful in achieving the intended objectives of these strategic initiatives in a timely manner or at all.. We recognized impairment charges during 2017 and may recognize additional such charges in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We evaluate goodwill and our indefinite-lived brand intangible asset for impairment on at least an annual basis. We evaluate property and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets for recoverability when indicators of impairment exist.We will recognize an impairment charge if: our $324.4 million indefinite-lived brand intangible asset has a carrying value that exceeds its estimated fair value; our $141.0 million of goodwill has a carrying value for an applicable reporting unit that exceeds its fair value; or our property and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets totaling $286.3 million at December 31, 2017 have estimated future undiscounted cash flows that are less than the applicable carrying values. In assessing fair value, we rely primarily on a discounted cash flow analysis, as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies. These analyses rely on the judgments and estimates of management, which involve inherent uncertainties. Impairment losses are significantly affected by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value as well as the Company's total market capitalization. Estimates of future operating cash flows are identified from strategic long-term plans, which are based upon experience, knowledge, and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by such factors as future operating results, future store profitability, future volumes, revenue and expense growth rates and asset disposal values and future economic conditions, all of which can be difficult to predict accurately. Any significant deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could affect the fair value of our long-lived assets and could result in future impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We recorded long-lived asset impairment charges of $457.8 million in fiscal 2017. While we currently believe that the fair values of our long-lived assets exceed their respective carrying values, changes in our estimates and assumptions regarding the future performance of our business could result in further impairment charges, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our inability to attract, train and retain highly qualified associates could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends on the continued contributions of our store and field associates, and the loss of these contributions could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must attract, train and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates, while controlling related labor costs and maintaining our core values. Our ability to control labor and benefit costs is subject to numerous external factors, including regulatory changes, prevailing wage rates, and healthcare and other insurance costs. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these store and field associates and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified store and field associates in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our market share, revenues and growth prospects.. The United States nutritional supplements retail industry is large and highly fragmented. Participants include specialty retailers, supermarkets, drugstores, mass merchants, multi-level marketing organizations, on-line merchants, mail-order companies and a variety of other smaller participants. We believe that the market is also highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. In the United States, we compete for sales with heavily advertised national brands manufactured by large pharmaceutical and food companies, as well as other retailers. In addition, as some products become more mainstream, we experience increased price competition for those products as more participants enter the market. Our international competitors include large international pharmacy chains, major international supermarket chains and other large. 14. Table of Contents. U.S.-based companies with international operations. Our wholesale and manufacturing operations compete with other wholesalers and manufacturers of third-party nutritional supplements. We may not be able to compete effectively and our attempts to do so may require us to reduce our prices, which may result in lower margins. Failure to effectively compete could adversely affect our market share, revenues and growth prospects.. Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our products, the ingredients they contain and any similar products distributed by other companies could cause fluctuations in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, the demand for our products and our ability to generate revenues and the market price of our common stock.. We are highly dependent upon consumer perception of the safety and quality of our products and the ingredients they contain, as well as that of similar products distributed by other companies. Consumer perception of products and the ingredients they contain can be significantly influenced by scientific research or findings, national media attention and other publicity about product use. A product may be received favorably, resulting in high sales associated with that product that may not be sustainable as consumer preferences change. Future scientific research or publicity could be unfavorable to our industry or any of our particular products or the ingredients they contain and may not be consistent with earlier favorable research or publicity. A future research report or publicity that is perceived by our consumers as less favorable or that questions earlier research or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results should not be relied upon as a measure of our future performance. Adverse publicity in the form of published scientific research or otherwise, whether or not accurate, that associates consumption of our products or the ingredients they contain or any other similar products distributed by other companies with illness or other adverse effects, that questions the benefits of our or similar products, or that claims that such products are ineffective could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, the demand for our products, our ability to generate revenues and the market price of our common stock.. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and otherwise adversely impact our operating income and growth prospects.. On February 28, 2018, we amended our Senior Credit Facility, which consisted of an extension of the maturity date for $704.3 million of the $1,131.2 million Term Loan Facility from March 2019 to March 2021. However, if more than $50.0 million of our Notes have not been repaid, discharged, prepaid, refinanced or converted prior to May 2020 (\"Existing Indenture Discharge\"), the maturity date becomes May 2020.  The amendment (the \"Amendment\") also includes:. • the termination of the Revolving Credit Facility, which was replaced with a new $100 million asset-based Revolving Credit Facility with a maturity date of August 2022 (which maturity date will become May 2020 if the Existing Indenture Discharge has not occurred); and. • a $275 million asset-based Term Loan Facility advanced on a \"first-in, last-out\" basis with a maturity date of December 2022 (which maturity date will become May 2020 if the Existing Indenture Discharge has not occurred).. After the effectiveness of the Amendment, we will owe $151.9 million on our Term Loan Facility due in March 2019.  The Amendment requires annual aggregate principal payments of at least $43 million related to the $704.3 million of the Term Loan Facility with a maturity of March 2021.  There are no scheduled amortization payments associated with the $275.0 million asset-based Term Loan Facility and payments associated with the $151.9 million Term Loan Facility are consistent with past terms.. We also have $188.6 million principal amount of 1.5% convertible senior notes due 2020 outstanding as of December 31, 2017 that the Company issued in a private offering in August 2015 (the \"Notes\") (net of $20.6 million related to the conversion feature and discount). On December 20, 2017, the Company executed exchange agreements with certain holders of the Notes to exchange, in privately negotiated transactions, $98.9 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes for an aggregate of 14.6 million newly issued shares of the Company's Class A common stock, $0.001 par value per share, together with $0.5 million of cash, representing accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes being exchanged.  The remaining debt of the Notes currently bear interest at a rate of 1.50% per year, payable semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 each year prior to their maturity in August 2020.. Our substantial debt could materially affect our financial condition. For example, it could:. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to use all or a large portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other business activities;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or capitalizing on business opportunities;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have less debt; and. 15. Table of Contents. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or pay cash dividends.. We may be able to incur additional debt in the future, including collateralized debt. Although the Senior Credit Facility contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. If we add to our current level of debt, the risks described above would be greater.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the Notes or to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our or the subsidiary guarantors' ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the Notes.. Holders of the Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their notes upon the occurrence of certain \"fundamental changes,\" as defined in the Indenture governing the Notes, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, upon conversion of the Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Notes being converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of notes surrendered therefor or pay cash upon conversions of notes being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Notes or to pay cash upon conversions of the Notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our existing or future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase the Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the Indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the Notes as required by the Indenture would constitute a default under the Indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof.. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Notes is triggered, holders of Notes will be entitled to convert the Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which could result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Notes to their face amount over the term of the Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the Notes.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) may use the treasury stock method to calculation dilution for earnings per share. Under the treasury stock method, the underlying convertible shares are anti-dilutive if the Company's average stock price is less than the conversion price, which historically has been the case. We no longer intend to settle the principal portion of Notes in cash, and as such, will apply the if-converted method to calculate dilution in future periods, which may adversely impact our diluted earnings per share.. 16. Table of Contents. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price for our common stock and adversely impact the trading price of the Notes.. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock to raise capital. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options, vesting of restricted stock units, and upon conversion of the Notes. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of the Notes and the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.. Our ability to continue to access credit on the terms previously obtained for the funding of our operations and capital projects may be limited due to changes in credit markets.. In the past, the credit markets and the financial services industry have experienced disruption characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions, increased volatility in securities prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability and intervention from the United States and other governments. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term or widespread downturn, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the global commercial and residential real estate markets and related mortgage markets and reduced consumer confidence have contributed to increased market volatility. The cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by these conditions. We cannot be certain that funding for our capital needs will be available from our existing financial institutions and the credit markets if needed, and if available, to the extent required and on acceptable terms. In connection with the Amendment described above, the $704.3 million Term Loan Facility matures on March 2021, the new asset-based Revolving Credit Facility matures in August 2022 and the $275.0 million asset-based Term Loan Facility matures on December 2020 (all of which the maturity dates will become May 2020 if the Existing Indenture Discharge has not occurred). If we cannot renew or refinance these facilities upon their maturity or, more generally, obtain funding when needed, in each case on acceptable terms, we may be unable to adequately fund our operating expenses and fund required capital expenditures, which may have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. We require a significant amount of cash to service our debt. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, and, as a result, we may not be able to make payments on our debt obligations.. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to obtain future borrowings under our credit facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, because we conduct our operations through our operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, including payments on our debt. Under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. If we do not have sufficient liquidity, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, sell assets or borrow more money, which we may not be able to do on terms satisfactory to us or at all. In addition, any refinancing could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations.. A default on any of our debt obligations could trigger certain acceleration clauses and cause those and our other obligations to become due and payable subject to defined rights to cure. Upon an acceleration of any of our debt, we may not be able to make payments under our other outstanding debt.. Restrictions in the agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business.. The agreements governing our existing indebtedness contain, and the agreements governing our future indebtedness will likely contain, customary restrictions on us or our subsidiaries, including covenants that restrict us or our subsidiaries, as the case may be, from:. • incurring additional indebtedness and issuing preferred stock;. • granting liens on our assets;. • making investments;. • consolidating or merging with, or acquiring, another business;. • selling or otherwise disposing of our assets;. • paying dividends and making other distributions to our stockholders;. 17. Table of Contents. • entering into transactions with our affiliates; and. • incurring capital expenditures in excess of limitations set within the agreement.. Our new $100 million asset-based Revolving Credit Facility requires that, for so long as availability under the Revolving Credit Facility is below a certain level, we meet a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio of (a) consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, less certain capital expenditures and taxes, to (b) the sum of cash interest expense, scheduled amortization and certain dividends and distributions. If we fail to satisfy such ratio, then we will be restricted from drawing available borrowings under the asset-based Revolving Credit Facility and any amount outstanding may become due and payable subject to defined rights to cure, which may impair our liquidity.. Our ability to comply with these covenants and other provisions of the Senior Credit Facility may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our debt obligations, which could cause those and other obligations to become due and payable subject to defined rights to cure. In addition, these restrictions may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted.. Our use of derivative instruments for hedging purposes may result in financial losses.. We may from time to time utilize derivative instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in fuel and certain other commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We could recognize losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or to the extent that a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of actively-quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these instruments involves judgment or use of estimates. Furthermore, changes in the value of derivatives designated under hedge accounting to the extent not fully offset by changes in the value of the hedged transaction can result in ineffectiveness losses that may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. The price of our common stock historically has been volatile.. The market price for our common stock has varied during the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2017 between a high of $11.45 on January 4, 2017 and a low of $3.35 on December 28, 2017. Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including those factors discussed under the heading \"Risk Factors\" in this Annual Report, as well as: variations in our quarterly operating results from our expectations or those of securities analysts or other investors; revisions in analyst estimates or announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; or the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock.. We depend on the services of key executives and other skilled professionals and any failure to attract or retain such individuals could affect our business strategy and adversely impact our performance and results of operations.. Our senior executives are instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, identifying opportunities and arranging necessary financing.  In addition, other key employees below the executive level, who are skilled professionals with deep knowledge of our business, are critical to the execution and success of our strategy.  Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, to the extent that we must replace one or more of these individuals or hire additional senior executives or other professionals to support our growing business, we may be unable to identify candidates of sufficient experience and capabilities in a timely fashion, which could negatively impact our business and operations.. If our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected.. We have methods to identify, monitor and manage our risks; however, these methods may not be fully effective. Some of our risk management methods may depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. If our methods are not fully effective or we are not successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage.. Compliance with new and existing governmental regulations could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our results of operations.. The processing, formulation, safety, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising and distribution of our products are subject to federal laws and regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the CPSC, the USDA, and. 18. Table of Contents. the EPA. These activities are also regulated by various state, local and international laws and agencies of the states and localities in which our products are sold. Government regulations may prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of our products, which could result in lost revenues and increased costs to us. For instance, the FDA regulates, among other things, the composition, safety, manufacture, labeling and marketing of dietary supplements (including vitamins, minerals, herbs, and other dietary ingredients for human use). The FDA may not accept the evidence of safety for any new dietary ingredient that we may wish to market, may determine that a particular dietary supplement or ingredient presents an unacceptable health risk based on the required submission of serious adverse events or other information, and may determine that a particular claim or statement of nutritional value that we use to support the marketing of a dietary supplement is an impermissible drug claim, is not substantiated, or is an unauthorized version of a \"health claim.\" See Item 1, \"Business - Government Regulation - Product Regulation\" for additional information. Any of these actions could prevent us from marketing particular dietary supplement products or making certain claims or statements with respect to those products. The FDA could also require us to remove a particular product from the market. Any future recall or removal would result in additional costs to us, including lost revenues from any products that we are required to remove from the market, any of which could be material. Any product recalls or removals could also lead to an increased risk of litigation and liability, substantial costs, and reduced growth prospects.. Additional or more stringent laws and regulations of dietary supplements and other products have been considered from time to time. These developments could require reformulation of some products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of some products not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of some products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, or other new requirements. Any of these developments could increase our costs significantly. In addition, regulators' evolving interpretation of existing laws could have similar effects.. Our failure to comply with FTC regulations and the consent decree imposed on us by the FTC could result in substantial monetary penalties and could adversely affect our operating results.. The FTC exercises jurisdiction over the advertising of dietary supplements and has instituted numerous enforcement actions against dietary supplement companies, including us, for failure to have adequate substantiation for claims made in advertising or for the use of false or misleading advertising claims. As a result of these enforcement actions, we are currently subject to a consent decree that limits our ability to make certain claims with respect to our hair care products. See Item 1, \"Business - Government Regulation - Product Regulation\" for more information. Failure by us or our franchisees to comply with the consent decree and applicable regulations could result in substantial monetary penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. We may incur material product liability claims, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, revenues and operating income.. As a retailer, distributor and manufacturer of products designed for human consumption, we are subject to product liability claims if the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury. Our products consist of vitamins, minerals, herbs and other ingredients that are classified as foods or dietary supplements and are not subject to pre-market regulatory approval in the United States. Our products could contain contaminated substances, and some of our products contain ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur.. In addition, third-party manufacturers produce many of the products we sell. We rely on these manufacturers to ensure the integrity of their ingredients and formulations. As a distributor of products manufactured by third parties, we may also be liable for various product liability claims for products we do not manufacture. Although our purchase agreements with our third-party vendors typically require the vendor to indemnify us to the extent of any such claims, any such indemnification is limited by its terms. Moreover, as a practical matter, any such indemnification is dependent on the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and its insurer, and the absence of significant defenses by the insurers. We may be unable to obtain full recovery from the insurer or any indemnifying third-party in respect of any claims against us in connection with products manufactured by such third-party.. We have been and may be subject to various product liability claims, including, among others, that our products include inadequate instructions for use or inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects and interactions with other substances. See Item 3, \"Legal Proceedings.\". Even with adequate insurance and indemnification, product liability claims could significantly damage our reputation and consumer confidence in our products. Our litigation expenses could increase as well, which also could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued.. 19. Table of Contents. We may experience product recalls, which could reduce our sales and margin and adversely affect our results of operations.. We may be subject to product recalls, withdrawals or seizures if any of the products we formulate, manufacture or sell are believed to cause injury or illness or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations in the manufacturing, labeling, promotion, sale or distribution of such products.. As is common in our industry, we rely on our third-party vendors to ensure that the products they manufacture and sell to us comply with all applicable regulatory and legislative requirements as well as the integrity of ingredients and proper formulation. In general, we seek representations and warranties, indemnification and/or insurance from our vendors. However, even with adequate insurance and indemnification, any claims of non-compliance could significantly damage our reputation and consumer confidence in our products, and could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the failure of such products to comply with the representations and warranties regarding such products that we receive from our third-party vendors, including compliance with applicable regulatory and legislative requirements, could prevent us from marketing the products or require us to recall or remove such products from the market, which in certain cases could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. In the past, due to frequently changing consumer preferences in the dietary supplement space, we have offset losses related to recalls and removals with reformulated or alternative products; however, there can be no assurance that we would be able to offset all or any portion of losses related to any future removal or recall. As a result of the indeterminable level of product substitution and reformulated product sales, we cannot reliably determine the potential impact of any such recall or removal on our business, financial condition or results of operation.. Our operations are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations that may increase our cost of operations or expose us to environmental liabilities.. Our operations are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, and some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and limit pollution of the environment. We could incur significant costs as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations, or to maintain compliance with such environmental laws, regulations or permit requirements. For example, in March 2008, the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (the \"DHEC\") requested that we investigate contamination associated with historical activities at our South Carolina facility. These investigations have identified chlorinated solvent impacts in soils and groundwater that extend offsite from our facility. We entered into a Voluntary Cleanup Contract with the DHEC regarding the matter on September 24, 2012. Pursuant to such contract, we have completed additional investigations with the DHEC's approval and the DHEC is currently reviewing the results. We will consult with the DHEC on the next steps in the work after their review of the results of the investigation is complete. At this stage of the investigation, however, it is not possible to estimate the timing and extent of any remedial action that may be required, the ultimate cost of remediation, or the amount of our potential liability.. In addition to the foregoing, we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign environmental and health and safety laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of our non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges from its operations into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water and groundwater. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for remedial actions, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. New laws, changes in existing laws or the interpretation thereof, or the development of new facts or changes in their processes could also cause us to incur additional capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws and regulations and environmental permits. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment without regard to fault or knowledge about the condition or action causing the liability. Under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties, or for properties to which substances or wastes that were sent in connection with current or former operations at its facilities. The presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could also adversely affect our ability to sell or lease our properties, or to use them as collateral for financing.. We are not insured for a significant portion of our claims exposure, which could materially and adversely affect our operating income and profitability.. We have procured insurance independently for the following areas: (1) general liability; (2) product liability; (3) directors and officers liability; (4) network security and privacy liability; (5) property losses; (6) workers' compensation; and (7) various other areas. In addition, although we believe that we will continue to be able to obtain insurance in these areas in the future, because of increased selectivity by insurance providers, we may only be able to obtain such insurance at increased rates and/or with reduced coverage levels. Furthermore, we are self-insured for other areas, including: (1) physical damage to our vehicles for field personnel use; and (2) physical damages that may occur at company-owned stores. We are not insured for some property and casualty risks due to the frequency and severity of a loss, the cost of insurance and the overall risk analysis. In addition, we carry product liability insurance coverage that requires us to pay deductibles/retentions with primary and excess liability coverage above the retention amount. Because of our deductibles and self-insured retention amounts, we have significant exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims. We currently maintain product liability insurance with a retention of $4.0 million per claim with an aggregate. 20. Table of Contents. cap on retained loss of $10.0 million. We could raise our deductibles/retentions, which would increase our already significant exposure to expense from claims. If any claim exceeds our coverage, we would bear the excess expense, in addition to our other self-insured amounts. If the frequency or severity of claims or our expenses increase, our operating income and profitability could be materially and adversely affected.. Because we rely on our manufacturing operations to produce a significant amount of the products we sell, disruptions in our manufacturing system or losses of manufacturing certifications could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships.. Our manufacturing operations produced approximately 25% of the products we sold in each of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Other than powders, chewables and liquids, nearly all of our proprietary products are produced in our manufacturing facility located in Greenville, South Carolina. In 2017, our largest vendor supplied approximately 10% of our raw materials. However, in the event any of our third-party suppliers or vendors becomes unable or unwilling to continue to provide raw materials in the required volumes and quality levels or in a timely manner, we would be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacement supply sources. If we are unable to identify and obtain alternative supply sources in a timely manner or at all, our business could be adversely affected. Any significant disruption in our operations at our Greenville, South Carolina facility for any reason, including regulatory requirements, an FDA determination that the facility is not in compliance with the cGMP regulations, the loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, war or other force of nature, could disrupt our supply of products, adversely affecting our sales and customer relationships.. An increase in the price and shortage of supply of key raw materials could adversely affect our business.. Our products are composed of certain key raw materials. If the prices of these raw materials were to increase significantly, the prices our contract manufacturers and third-party manufacturers charge us for our GNC-branded products and third-party products could increase significantly and we may not be able to pass on such increases to our customers. A significant increase in the price of raw materials that cannot be passed on to customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we no longer are able to obtain products from one or more of our suppliers on terms reasonable to us or at all, our revenues could suffer. Events such as the threat of political or social unrest, or the perceived threat thereof, may also have a significant impact on raw material prices and transportation costs for our products. In addition, the interruption in supply of certain key raw materials essential to the manufacturing of our products may have an adverse impact on our suppliers' ability to provide us with the necessary products needed to maintain our customer relationships and an adequate level of sales.. Difficulties with our vendors may adversely impact our business.. Our performance depends on our ability to purchase products at sufficient levels and at competitive prices from vendors who can deliver products in a timely and efficient manner and in compliance with our vendor standards and all applicable laws and regulations. We currently have a large number of vendor relationships. Generally, we do not have any long-term purchase agreements or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could discontinue selling to us at any time. Historically, we have not relied on any single vendor for our products and have not had difficulties replacing vendors for various products we sell. However, in the future there is no assurance that we will continue to be able to acquire desired products in sufficient quantities or on terms acceptable to us, or be able to develop relationships with new vendors to replace any discontinued vendors. Our inability to acquire suitable products in the future or our failure to replace any one or more vendors may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any significant change in the payment terms that we have with our suppliers could adversely affect our liquidity.. Many of our suppliers are small firms that produce a limited number of items. These smaller vendors generally have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories, and some of our vendors have limited the distribution of their products in the past. Accordingly, these vendors may be susceptible to cash flow issues, downturns in economic conditions, production difficulties, quality control issues and difficulty delivering agreed-upon quantities on schedule and in compliance with regulatory requirements. If a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons, we could experience products out-of-stocks that could lead to lost sales. In addition, although we generally have charge-back privileges in our vendor agreements, there is no assurance that we would be able, if necessary, to return product to these vendors, obtain refunds of our purchase price or obtain reimbursement or indemnification from any of our vendors should we so desire, and from time to time, we may be in litigation with one or more vendors. Many of these suppliers require extensive advance notice of our requirements in order to supply products in the quantities we need. This long lead time requires us to place orders far in advance of the time when certain products will be offered for sale, exposing us to shifts in consumer demand and discretionary spending.. Other supplier problems that we could face include product shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, supplier financial weaknesses, inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, as described. 21. Table of Contents. above.  Given the importance of third-party suppliers to our business, if any of these risks materializes, our ability to obtain raw materials and products and our results of operations may suffer.. A significant disruption to our distribution network, our network or communication systems or to the timely receipt of inventory could adversely impact sales and operations or increase our transportation costs, which would decrease our profits.. We rely on our ability to replenish depleted inventory in our stores through deliveries to our distribution centers from vendors and then from the distribution centers or direct ship vendors to our stores by various means of transportation, including shipments by sea and truck. Unexpected delays in those deliveries or increases in transportation costs (including through increased fuel costs) could significantly decrease our ability to make sales and earn profits. In addition, labor shortages in the transportation industry or long-term disruptions to the national and international transportation infrastructure that lead to delays or interruptions of deliveries could negatively affect our business.. In addition, our network and communications systems are dependent on third-party providers and are vulnerable to system interruption and damage, which could limit our ability to operate our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our systems and operations and those of our third-party internet service providers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, earthquakes, power loss, server failure, telecommunications and internet service failure, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses and denial-of-service attacks, physical or electronic breaches, sabotage, human error and similar events. Any of these events could lead to system interruptions, including the nonavailability or nonfunctionality of our website, processing and order fulfillment delays and loss of critical data for us, our suppliers or our internet service providers, and could prevent us from processing customer purchases. Because we are dependent on third-party service providers for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our systems and operations, which may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, if at all.  Accordingly, any computer, internet, network or system disruptions could have a a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If we fail to protect our brand name, competitors may adopt trade names that dilute the value of our brand name, and prosecuting or defending infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using some aspect of our products, which could adversely affect our revenues and market share.. We have invested significant resources to promote our GNC brand name in order to obtain the public recognition that we have today. Because of the differences in foreign trademark laws concerning proprietary rights, our trademarks may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they do in the United States. Also, we may not always be able to successfully enforce our trademarks against competitors or against challenges by others. For example, we are currently engaged in trademark disputes in foreign jurisdictions over \"GNC\", \"LIVE WELL\" and other similar trademarks and trademark applications. Our failure to successfully protect our trademarks could diminish the value and effectiveness of our past and future marketing efforts and could cause customer confusion. This could in turn adversely affect our revenues, profitability and the market price of our common stock.. We are currently and may in the future be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using some aspect of our products. Claims of intellectual property infringement also may require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Claims that our technology or products infringe on intellectual property rights could be costly and would divert the attention of management and key personnel, which in turn could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. A substantial amount of our revenue is generated from our franchisees, and our revenues could decrease significantly if our franchisees do not conduct their operations profitably or if we fail to attract new franchisees.. Our franchise operations generated approximately 18% of our revenues in each of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Our revenues from franchise stores depend on the franchisees' ability to operate their stores profitably and adhere to our franchise standards. The closing of franchise stores or the failure of franchisees to comply with our policies could adversely affect our reputation and could reduce the amount of our franchise revenues. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating income.. If we are unable to attract new franchisees or to convince existing franchisees to open additional stores, any growth in royalties from franchise stores will depend solely upon increases in revenues at existing franchise stores. In addition, our ability to open additional franchise locations is limited by the territorial restrictions in our existing franchise agreements as well as our ability to identify additional markets in the United States and other countries. If we are unable to open additional franchise locations, we will have to sustain additional growth internally by attracting new and repeat customers to our existing locations.. 22. Table of Contents. Franchisee support of our marketing and advertising programs is critical to our success.. The support of our franchisees is critical for the success of our marketing programs and other strategic initiatives we seek to undertake, and the successful execution of these initiatives will depend on our ability to maintain alignment with our franchisees. While we can mandate certain strategic initiatives through enforcement of our franchise agreements, we need the active support of our franchisees if the implementation of these initiatives is to be successful. In addition, our efforts to build alignment with franchisees may result in a delay in the implementation of our marketing and advertising programs and other key initiatives. Although we believe that our current relationships with our franchisees are generally good, there can be no assurance that our franchisees will continue to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives. The failure of our franchisees to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy and could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our franchisees are independent operators and we have limited influence over their operations.. Our revenues substantially depend upon our franchisees' sales volumes, profitability and financial viability. However, our franchisees are independent operators and we cannot control many factors that impact the profitability of their stores. Pursuant to the franchise agreements, we can, among other things, mandate signage, equipment and hours of operation, establish operating procedures and approve suppliers, distributors and products. However, the quality of franchise store operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Consequently, franchisees may not successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements or standards set by federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations. In addition, franchisees may not hire and train qualified managers and other personnel. While we ultimately can take action to terminate franchisees that do not comply with the standards contained in our franchise agreements, any delay in identifying and addressing problems could harm our image and reputation, and our franchise revenues and results of operations could decline.. Franchise regulations could limit our ability to terminate or replace underperforming franchises, which could adversely impact franchise revenues.. Our franchise activities are subject to federal, state and international laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises and the governance of our franchise relationships. These laws impose registration, extensive disclosure requirements and bonding requirements on the offer and sale of franchises. In some jurisdictions, the laws relating to the governance of our franchise relationship impose fair dealing standards during the term of the franchise relationship and limitations on our ability to terminate or refuse to renew a franchise. We may, therefore, be required to retain an underperforming franchise and may be unable to replace the franchisee, which could adversely impact franchise revenues. In addition, we cannot predict the nature and effect of any future legislation or regulation on our franchise operations.. We have limited influence over the decision of franchisees to invest in other businesses or incur excessive indebtedness.. Our franchisees are independent operators and, therefore, we have limited influence over their ability to invest in other businesses or incur excessive indebtedness. In some cases, these franchisees have used the cash generated by their stores to expand their other businesses or to subsidize losses incurred by such businesses. Additionally, as independent operators, franchisees do not require our consent to incur indebtedness. Consequently, our franchisees have in the past, and may in the future, experience financial distress as a result of over leveraging. To the extent that our franchisees use the cash from their stores to subsidize their other businesses or experience financial distress, due to over-leverage or otherwise, it could negatively affect (1) our operating results as a result of delayed or reduced payments of royalties, advertising fund contributions and rents for properties we lease to them, (2) our future revenue, earnings and cash flow growth and (3) our financial condition. In addition, lenders that are adversely affected by franchisees who default on their indebtedness may be less likely to provide current or prospective franchisees necessary financing on favorable terms or at all.. Economic, political and other risks associated with our international operations could adversely affect our revenues and international growth prospects.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 228 company-owned Canadian stores, 11 company-owned The Health Store stores located in Ireland, 5 company-owned stores located in China, and 1,999 international franchise locations in approximately 50 international countries (including distribution centers where retail sales are made). As part of our business strategy, we intend to expand our international franchise presence. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent to operating in foreign countries, and any expansion of our international operations will increase the effects of these risks. These risks include, among others:. •political and economic instability of foreign markets;. •foreign governments' restrictive trade policies;. •inconsistent product regulation or sudden policy changes by foreign agencies or governments;. 23. Table of Contents. •the imposition of, or increase in, duties, taxes, government royalties or non-tariff trade barriers;. •difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable and potentially longer payment cycles;. •difficulty of enforcing contractual obligations of foreign franchisees;. •increased costs in maintaining international franchise and marketing efforts;. •problems entering international markets with different cultural bases and consumer preferences;. •compliance with laws and regulations applicable to international operations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and regulations promulgated by the Office of Foreign Asset Control;. •fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and. •operating in new, developing or other markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and regulations relating to contract and intellectual property rights.. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our international operations and our growth strategy.. We may be unable to successfully expand our operations into new international markets.. If the opportunity arises, we may expand our operations into new and high-growth international markets. However, there is no assurance that we will expand our operations in such markets in our desired time frame. To expand our operations into new international markets, we may enter into business combination transactions, make acquisitions or enter into strategic partnerships, joint ventures or alliances, any of which may be material. We may enter into these transactions to acquire other businesses or products to expand our products or take advantage of new developments and potential changes in the industry. Our lack of experience operating in new international markets and our lack of familiarity with local economic, political and regulatory systems could prevent us from achieving the results that we expect on our anticipated time frame or at all. If we are unsuccessful in expanding into new or high-growth international markets, it could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We expect to close the Securities Purchase Agreement and the associated China joint venture described below under the risk factor titled \"There can be no assurance that the conditions to the Securities Purchase Agreement with Harbin Pharmaceutical Group Holdings Co., Ltd. will be satisfied or that a satisfactory definitive agreement to enter into a China joint venture will be reached\" in the second half of 2018.  However, there is no assurance that the Securities Purchase Agreement will close or that the China JV will be successful.. We must successfully maintain and/or upgrade our information technology systems, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations. Over the last several years, we have implemented, and we continue to implement, modifications and upgrades to such systems, including changes to legacy systems, replacing legacy systems with successor systems with new functionality, and acquiring new systems with new functionality. These types of activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of our ability to fulfill customer orders, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the new systems, demands on management time and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to or integrating new systems into our current systems. These implementations, modifications and upgrades may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. In addition, the difficulties with implementing new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Privacy protection is increasingly demanding, and we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with security breaches, data loss, credit card fraud and identity theft that could cause us to incur unexpected expenses and loss of revenue as well as other risks.. The protection of customer, employee, vendor, franchisee and other business data is critical to us. Federal, state, provincial and international laws and regulations govern the collection, retention, sharing and security of data that we receive from and about our employees, customers, vendors and franchisees. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy has been increasingly demanding in recent years, and may see the imposition of new and additional requirements by states and the federal government as well as foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. Compliance with these requirements may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes to meet these requirements by us and our franchisees. In addition, customers and franchisees have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. If we or our service provider fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a significant breach of. 24. Table of Contents. customer, employee, vendor, franchisee or other company data, our reputation could be damaged and result in an increase in service charges, suspension of service, lost sales, fines or lawsuits.. The use of credit payment systems makes us more susceptible to a risk of loss in connection with these issues, particularly with respect to an external security breach of customer information that we or third parties (including those with whom we have strategic alliances) under arrangements with us control. A significant portion of our sales require the collection of certain customer data, such as credit card information. In order for our sales channel to function, we and other parties involved in processing customer transactions must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. In the event of a security breach, theft, leakage, accidental release or other illegal activity with respect to employee, customer, vendor, franchisee third-party, with whom we have strategic alliances or other company data, we could become subject to various claims, including those arising out of thefts and fraudulent transactions, and may also result in the suspension of credit card services. This could cause consumers to lose confidence in our security measures, harm our reputation as well as divert management attention and expose us to potentially unreserved claims and litigation. Any loss in connection with these types of claims could be substantial. In addition, if our electronic payment systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. In addition, we are reliant on these systems, not only to protect the security of the information stored, but also to appropriately track and record data. Any failures or inadequacies in these systems could expose us to significant unreserved losses, which could materially and adversely affect our earnings and the market price of our common stock. Our brand reputation would likely be damaged as well.. General economic conditions, including a prolonged weakness in the economy, may affect consumer purchases, which could adversely affect our sales and the sales of our business partners.. Our results, and those of our business partners to whom we sell, are dependent on a number of factors impacting consumer spending, including general economic and business conditions; consumer confidence; wages and employment levels; the housing market; consumer debt levels; availability of consumer credit; credit and interest rates; fuel and energy costs; energy shortages; taxes; general political conditions, both domestic and abroad; and the level of customer traffic within department stores, malls and other shopping and selling environments. Consumer product purchases, including purchases of our products, may decline during recessionary periods. A prolonged downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economy may materially adversely affect our business, revenues and profits and the market price of our common stock.. Natural disasters (whether or not caused by climate change), unusually adverse weather conditions, pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts and global political events could cause permanent or temporary distribution center or store closures, impair our ability to purchase, receive or replenish inventory or cause customer traffic to decline, all of which could result in lost sales and otherwise adversely affect our financial performance.. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, fires, floods and earthquakes (whether or not caused by climate change), unusually adverse weather conditions, pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts or disruptive global political events, such as civil unrest in countries in which our suppliers are located, or similar disruptions could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. To the extent these events result in the closure of one or more of our distribution centers, a significant number of stores, a manufacturing facility or our corporate headquarters, or impact one or more of our key suppliers, our operations and financial performance could be materially adversely affected through an inability to make deliveries to our stores and through lost sales. In addition, these events could result in increases in fuel (or other energy) prices or a fuel shortage, delays in opening new stores, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores, the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores and disruption to our information systems. These events also could have indirect consequences, such as increases in the cost of insurance, if they were to result in significant loss of property or other insurable damage. We estimate that Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria impacted our 2017 same store sales adversely by 0.2%.. Our holding company structure makes us dependent on our subsidiaries for our cash flow and subordinates the rights of our stockholders to the rights of creditors of our subsidiaries in the event of an insolvency or liquidation of any of our subsidiaries.. Holdings is a holding company and, accordingly, substantially all of our operations are conducted through its subsidiaries. Holdings' subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. As a result, Holdings' cash flow depends upon the earnings of its subsidiaries. In addition, Holdings depends on the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments by its subsidiaries. Holdings' subsidiaries have no obligation to provide it with funds for its payment obligations. If there is an insolvency, liquidation or other reorganization of any of Holdings' subsidiaries, Holdings' stockholders will have no right to proceed against their assets. Creditors of those subsidiaries will be entitled to payment in full from the sale or other disposal of the assets of those subsidiaries before Holdings, as a stockholder, would be entitled to receive any distribution from that sale or disposal.. 25. Table of Contents. There can be no assurance that the conditions to the Securities Purchase Agreement with Harbin Pharmaceutical Group Holdings Co., Ltd. will be satisfied or that a satisfactory definitive agreement to enter into a China joint venture will be reached.. On February 13, 2018, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (the \"Securities Purchase Agreement\") with Harbin Pharmaceutical Group Holdings Co., Ltd. (the \"Investor\"), pursuant to which we agreed to issue and sell to the Investor, and the Investor agreed to purchase, 299,950 shares of a newly created series of convertible perpetual preferred stock of the Company designated as \"Series A Convertible Preferred Stock\" (the \"Convertible Preferred Stock\"), for a purchase price of $1,000 per share, or an aggregate of approximately $300 million.  In addition, the Securities Purchase Agreement provides for the parties to use their respective reasonable best efforts to negotiate in good faith definitive documentation with respect to a commercial joint venture in China (the \"China JV\") pursuant to which, among other things, the joint venture would be granted an exclusive right to use our trademarks and manufacture and distribute our products in China (excluding Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau). The joint venture would be controlled 65% by the Investor and 35% by the Company.. Consummation of the sale of the Convertible Preferred Stock is subject to several conditions set forth in the Securities Purchase Agreement, including without limitation (a) approval by our stockholders, (b) no governmental entity having prohibited or made illegal the transactions contemplated by the Securities Purchase Agreement, (c) customary anti-trust approvals, (d) entry into the China JV, (e) accuracy or representations and warranties and compliance with covenants set forth in the Stock Purchase Agreement, (f) consummation of a refinancing of our Existing Credit Agreement on terms reasonably satisfactory to the Investor, (g) appointment of certain individuals selected by the Investor to the Company's Board of Directors and (h) certain customary filings with the Secretary of State of Delaware and the NYSE.  In addition, entry into the China JV will require the satisfactory negotiation and execution of definitive agreement between the Company and the Investor.. There can be no assurance that the conditions to the Securities Purchase Agreement will be satisfied or that a satisfactory definitive agreement to enter into the China JV will be reached.  If these transactions are not consummated, we will not achieve the expected benefits thereof and will be subject to the risks described above, any of which could affect our share price and future business and financial results.  In addition, delays in consummating these transactions or the failure to consummate these transactions at all may result in our incurring significant additional costs in connection with such delay or termination of the Securities Purchase Agreement, significant diversion of management's time and attention from other business matters, and/or failing to achieve the anticipated benefits associated with these transactions."
