[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should consider the following discussion of risks in addition to the other information contained in or included by reference in this Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, the information in this Form 10-K contains \"forward-looking statements\" about our future business and performance. Our actual operating results and financial performance may be very different from what we expect as of the date of this Form 10-K. The risks below address material factors that may affect our future operating results and financial performance.. General Risks. A substantial or prolonged decline in gold prices would have a material adverse effect on us.. The price of our common shares, our financial results and our exploration, development and mining activities have previously been, and would in the future be significantly adversely affected by a substantial or prolonged decline in the price of gold. The price of gold is volatile and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control such as the sale or purchase of gold by various central banks and financial institutions, inflation or deflation, fluctuation in the value of the United States dollar and foreign currencies, global and regional demand, and the political and economic conditions of major gold-producing countries throughout the world. Any drop in the price of gold adversely impacts our revenues, profits and cash flows. In particular, a sustained low gold price could:. • cause suspension of our mining operations at Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa/HBB if these operations become uneconomic at the then-prevailing gold price, thus further reducing revenues;. • cause us to be unable to fulfill our obligations under agreements with our partners or under our permits and licenses which could cause us to lose our interests in, or be forced to sell, some of our properties;. • cause us to be unable to fulfill our debt payment obligations;. • halt or delay the development of new projects; and. • reduce funds available for exploration, with the result that depleted mineral reserves may not replaced by new exploration activities.. Furthermore, the need to reassess the feasibility of any of our development projects because of declining gold prices could cause substantial delays or could interrupt development until a reassessment could be completed. Mineral reserve estimations and life-of-mine plans incorporating significantly lower gold prices could result in reduced estimates of mineral reserves and non-reserve Mineral Resources and in material write-downs of our investment in mining properties and increased amortization, reclamation and closure charges.. We have incurred and may in the future incur substantial losses that could make financing our operations and business strategy more difficult and that may affect our ability to service our debts as they become due.. We had net losses of $10.2 million in 2012, $2.5 million in 2011 and $14.6 million in 2010. In recent years increasing operating costs, lower ore grades from our mines and lower gold recovery rates have been the primary factors contributing to such losses. In the future, these factors, as well as declining gold prices, could cause us to continue to be unprofitable. Future operating losses could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital if needed, and could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, continuing operating losses could affect our ability to meet our debt payment obligations.. Our obligations could strain our financial position and impede our business strategy.. We had total consolidated debt and liabilities as of December 31, 2012,of $294.4 million, including $18.2 million in equipment financing loans; $99.3 million ($77.5 million face value) pursuant to the 5% Convertible Debentures (as defined herein); $101.8 million of current trade payables and accrued liabilities; $41.0 million of current and future taxes; and a $34.1 million. 18. accrual for environmental rehabilitation liabilities. Our indebtedness and other liabilities may increase as a result of general corporate activities. These liabilities could have important consequences, including the following:. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, exploration costs and other general corporate requirements;. • requiring us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments, which would reduce our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, exploration and development projects and other general corporate requirements;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; and. • placing us at a disadvantage when compared to our competitors that have less debt relative to their market capitalization.. Estimates of our Mineral Reserves and non-reserve Mineral Resources could be inaccurate, which could cause actual production and costs to differ from estimates.. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves and non-reserve Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources, including many factors beyond our control. The accuracy of estimates of Mineral Reserves and non-reserves is a function of the quantity and quality of available data and of the assumptions made and judgments used in engineering and geological interpretation, which could prove to be unreliable. These estimates of Mineral Reserves and non-reserves may not be accurate, and Mineral Reserves and non-reserves may not be able to be mined or processed profitably.. Fluctuation in gold prices, results of drilling, metallurgical testing, changes in operating costs, production, and the evaluation of mine plans subsequent to the date of any estimate could require revision of the estimates. The volume and grade of Mineral Reserves mined and processed and recovery rates might not be the same as currently anticipated. Any material reductions in estimates of our Mineral Reserves and non-reserves, or of our ability to extract these Mineral Reserves and non-reserves, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We currently have only two sources of operational cash flows, which could be insufficient by themselves to fund our continuing exploration and development activities.. Our only current significant internal sources of funds are operational cash flows from Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa/HBB. The anticipated continuing exploration and development of our properties are expected to require significant expenditures over the next several years. During 2013 if cash on hand, free cash flows generated by Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa/HBB and our equipment financing facility is insufficient to cover all of our capital investment needs, we may require additional financing or we may consider rescheduling capital spending. Our ability to raise significant new capital will be a function of macroeconomic conditions, future gold prices, our operational performance and our then current cash flow and debt position, among other factors. Continued uncertainty in the global economy may affect lending practices and our ability to access capital. As a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate financing on acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to delay or indefinitely postpone further exploration and development of our properties. Consequently, we could lose our interest in, or could be forced to sell, some of our properties.. We are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could materially adversely affect our financial position.. Our revenues are in United States dollars, and we maintain most of our working capital in United States dollars or United States dollar-denominated securities. We convert our United States funds to foreign currencies as certain payment obligations become due. Accordingly, we are subject to fluctuations in the rates of currency exchange between the United States dollar and these foreign currencies, and these fluctuations could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. A significant portion of the operating costs at Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa/HBB is based on the Ghanaian currency, the Cedi. We are required by the Government of Ghana to convert into Cedis 20% of the foreign exchange proceeds that we receive from selling gold, but the Government could require us to convert a higher percentage of gold sales proceeds into Cedis in the future. We obtain construction and other services and materials and supplies from providers in South Africa and other countries. The costs of goods and services could increase or decrease due to changes in the value of the United States dollar or the Cedi, the Euro, the South African Rand or other currencies. Consequently, operation and development of our properties could be more costly than anticipated.. Any hedging activities might be unsuccessful and incur losses.. While we held no hedging instruments during 2012, we may enter into additional hedging arrangements in the future. Future hedging activities might not protect adequately against declines in the price of gold. In addition, although a hedging program. 19. could protect us from a decline in the price of gold, it might also prevent us from benefiting fully from price increases. For example, as part of a hedging program, we could be obligated to sell gold at a price lower than the then-current market price.. Risks inherent in acquisitions that we might undertake could adversely affect our current business and financial condition and our growth.. We plan to continue to pursue the acquisition of producing, development and advanced stage exploration properties and companies. The search for attractive acquisition opportunities and the completion of suitable transactions are time consuming and expensive, divert management attention from our existing business and may be unsuccessful. Success in our acquisition activities depends on our ability to complete acquisitions on acceptable terms and integrate the acquired operations successfully with our operations. Any acquisition would be accompanied by risks. For example, there may be a significant change in commodity prices after we have committed to complete a transaction and established the purchase price or exchange ratio, a material ore body may prove to be below expectations or the acquired business or assets may have unknown liabilities which may be significant. We may lose the services of our key employees or the key employees of any business we acquire or have difficulty integrating operations and personnel. The integration of an acquired business or assets may disrupt our ongoing business and our relationships with employees, suppliers and contractors. Any one or more of these factors or other risks could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition of properties or companies, and could have a material adverse effect on our current business and financial condition and on our ability to grow.. We are subject to litigation risks.. All industries, including the mining industry, are subject to legal claims, with and without merit. As such, we are involved in various routine legal proceedings incidental to our business. Defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal proceeding could have a material effect on our future financial position and results of operations.. We are subject to a number of operational hazards that can delay production or result in liability to us.. Our activities are subject to a number of risks and hazards including:. • power shortages;. • mechanical and electrical equipment failures;. • parts availability;. • unexpected changes in ore grades;. • unexpected changes in ore chemistry and gold recoverability;. • environmental hazards;. • discharge of pollutants or hazardous chemicals;. • industrial accidents;. • labor disputes and shortages;. • supply and shipping problems and delays;. • shortage of equipment and contractor availability;. • unusual or unexpected geological or operating conditions;. • cave-ins of underground workings;. • failure of pit walls or dams;. • fire;. • marine and transit damage and/or loss;. • changes in the regulatory environment, including in the area of climate change;. • delayed or restricted access to ore due to community interventions; and. • natural phenomena such as inclement weather conditions, floods, droughts and earthquakes.. These or other occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in mining, delayed production, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Satisfying such liabilities could be very costly and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. 20. Our mining operations are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and permitting requirements and bonding requirements that can delay production and adversely affect operating and development costs.. Compliance with existing regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to environmental protection, in the jurisdictions where we have projects may have a material adverse effect on our exploration activities, results of operations and competitive position. New or expanded regulations, if adopted, could affect the exploration, development, or operation of our projects or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Portions of our Wassa property, as well as some of our exploration properties in Ghana, including Dunkwa, are located within forest reserve areas. Although Dunkwa and Wassa have been identified by the Government of Ghana as eligible for mining permits, subject to normal procedures and a site inspection, permits for projects in forest reserve areas may not be issued in a timely fashion, or at all, and such permits may contain special requirements with which it is burdensome or uneconomic to comply.. Mining and processing gold from our future development projects in Ghana will require mining, environmental, and other permits and approvals from the Government of Ghana. The trend to longer lead times in obtaining environmental permits has reached a point where we are no longer able to accurately estimate permitting times for our planning purposes. The increases in permitting requirements could affect our environmental management activities including, but not limited to, tailings disposal facilities and water management projects at our mines.. Due to an increased level of non-governmental organization activity targeting the mining industry in Ghana, the potential for the Government of Ghana to delay the issuance of permits or impose new requirements or conditions upon mining operations in Ghana may increase. Any changes in the Government of Ghana's policies, or their application, may be costly to comply with and may delay mining operations. The exact nature of other environmental control problems, if any, which we may encounter in the future, cannot be predicted primarily because of the changing character of environmental requirements that may be enacted within the various jurisdictions where we operate.. As a result of the foregoing risks, project expenditures, production quantities and rates and cash operating costs, among other things, could be materially and adversely affected and could differ materially from anticipated expenditures, production quantities and rates and costs. In addition, estimated production dates could be delayed materially. Any such events could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The development and operation of our mining projects involve numerous uncertainties that could affect the feasibility or profitability of such projects.. Mine development projects typically require a number of years and significant expenditures during the development phase before production is possible.. Development projects are subject to the completion of successful feasibility studies and environmental and socioeconomic assessments, the issuance of necessary governmental permits and receipt of adequate financing. The economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors such as:. • estimation of Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources;. • mining rate, dilution and recovery;. • anticipated metallurgical characteristics of the ore and gold recovery rates;. • environmental and community considerations including resettlement, permitting and approvals;. • future gold prices; and. • anticipated capital and operating costs.. Estimates of proven and probable Mineral Reserves and operating costs developed in feasibility studies are based on reasonable assumptions including geologic and engineering analyses and may not prove to be accurate.. The management of mine development projects and the start up of new operations are complex. Completion of development and the commencement of production may be subject to delays. Any of the following events, among others, could affect the profitability or economic feasibility of a project:. • unanticipated changes in grade and tonnage of ore to be mined and processed;. • unanticipated adverse geotechnical conditions;. • incorrect data on which engineering assumptions are made;. • costs of constructing and operating a mine in a specific environment;. • cost of processing and refining;. • availability of economic sources of power and fuel;. • availability of qualified staff;. 21. • adequacy of water supply;. • adequate access to the site including competing land uses (such as agriculture and illegal mining);. • unanticipated transportation costs and shipping incidents and losses;. • significant increases in the cost of diesel fuel, cyanide or other major components of operating costs;. • government regulations and changes to existing regulations (including regulations relating to prices, royalties, duties, taxes, permitting, restrictions on production, quotas on exportation of minerals, protection of the environment and agricultural lands, including bonding requirements);. • fluctuations in gold prices; and. • accidents, labor actions and force majeure events.. Adverse effects on the operations or further development of a project could also adversely affect our business (including our ability to achieve our production estimates), financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. We need to continually discover, develop or acquire additional Mineral Reserves for gold production and a failure to do so would adversely affect our business and financial position in the future.. Because mines have limited lives based on Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves, we must continually replace and expand Mineral Reserves as our mines produce gold. We are required to estimate mine life in connection with our estimation of reserves, but our estimates may not be correct. In addition, mine life would be shortened if we expand production or if we lose reserves due to changes in gold price or operating costs. Our ability to maintain or increase our annual production of gold will be dependent in significant part on our ability to bring new mines into production and to expand or extend the life of existing mines.. Gold exploration is highly speculative, involves substantial expenditures, and is frequently non-productive.. Gold exploration involves a high degree of risk. Exploration projects are frequently unsuccessful. Few prospects that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. We cannot assure you that our gold exploration efforts will be successful. The success of gold exploration is dependent in part on the following factors:. • the identification of potential gold mineralization based on surface analysis;. • availability of prospective land;. • availability of government-granted exploration and exploitation permits;. • the quality of our management and our geological and technical expertise; and. • the funding available for exploration and development.. Substantial expenditures are required to determine if a project has economically mineable mineralization. It could take several years to establish Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves and to develop and construct mining and processing facilities. Because of these uncertainties, we cannot assure you that current and future exploration programs will result in the discovery of Mineral Reserves, the expansion of our existing Mineral Reserves or the development of mines.. We face competition from other mining companies in connection with the acquisition of properties.. We face strong competition from other mining companies in connection with the acquisition of properties producing, or capable of producing gold. Many of these companies have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities. As a result of this competition, we might be unable to maintain or acquire attractive mining properties on terms we consider acceptable or at all. Consequently, our future revenues, operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Title to our mineral properties could be challenged.. We seek to confirm the validity of our rights to title to, or contract rights with respect to, each mineral property in which we have a material interest. We have mining leases with respect to our Bogoso/Prestea, Wassa, Prestea Underground and HBB properties. Title insurance generally is not available, and our ability to ensure that we have obtained a secure claim to individual mineral properties or mining concessions is limited. We generally do not conduct surveys of our properties until they have reached the development stage, and therefore, the precise area and location of such properties could be in doubt. Accordingly, our mineral properties could be subject to prior unregistered agreements, transfers or claims, and title could be affected by, among other things, undetected defects. In addition, we might be unable to operate our properties as permitted or to enforce our rights with respect to our properties.. We depend on the services of key executives.. We are dependent on the services of key executives including our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and a number of other highly skilled and experienced executive personnel. Due to the relatively small size of our. 22. management team, the loss of one or more of these persons or our inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled employees could have an adverse effect on our business and future operations.. Our increased use of contractors may expose us to a number of risks and increase our mining costs.. We have increased our use of mining contractors at Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa/HBB.  The increased use of contractors subjects us to certain risks, some of which are outside our control, including:. • our ability to negotiate agreements with contractors on acceptable terms;. • reduced control over those aspects of operations which are the responsibility of the contractor;. • failure of a contractor to perform under its agreement;. • interruption of operations or increased costs in the event that a contractor ceases to do business due to insolvency or other unforeseen events;. • failure of a contractor to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements;. • labor relation issues from a contractors' workforce; and. • the potential to incur liability to third parties as a result of the actions of our contractors.. The occurrence of one or more of these risks could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. Our insurance coverage could be insufficient.. Our business is subject to a number of risks and hazards generally, including:. • adverse environmental conditions;. • industrial accidents;. • labor disputes;. • unusual or unexpected geological conditions;. • ground or slope failures;. • cave-ins;. • fire damage;. • changes in the regulatory environment;. • marine transit and shipping damage and/or losses;. • natural phenomena such as inclement weather conditions, floods and earthquakes; and. • political risks including expropriation and civil war.. Such occurrences could result in:. • damage to mineral properties or production facilities and equipment;. • personal injury or death;. • loss of legitimate title to properties;. • environmental damage to our properties or the properties of others;. • delays in mining, processing and development;. • monetary losses; and. • possible legal liability.. Although we maintain insurance in amounts that we believe to be reasonable, our insurance might not cover all the potential risks associated with our business. We might also be unable to maintain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums. Insurance coverage might not continue to be available or might not be adequate to cover any resulting liability. Moreover, insurance against risks such as environmental pollution or other hazards as a result of exploration and production is not generally available to us or to other companies in the mining industry on acceptable terms. We might also become subject to liability for pollution or other hazards which we cannot insure against or which we might elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. Losses from these events might cause us to incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect upon our financial performance and results of operations.. We are dependent on information technology systems, which are subject to certain risks, including cybersecurity risks and data leakage risks.. We are dependent upon information technology systems in the conduct of our operations. Any significant breakdown, invasion, virus, cyber attack, security breach, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact our operations. To the extent any invasion, cyber attack or. 23. security breach results in disruption to our operations, loss or disclosure of, or damage to, our data or confidential information, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our systems and insurance coverage for protecting against cyber security risks may not be sufficient. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks, we may suffer such losses in the future. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. Governmental and Regulatory Risks. As a holding company, limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to make distributions to us could adversely affect the funding of our operations.. We are a holding company that conducts operations through foreign (principally Ghanaian) subsidiaries and joint ventures, and substantially all of our assets consist of equity in these entities. Accordingly, any limitation on the transfer of cash or other assets between the parent corporation and these entities, or among these entities, could restrict our ability to fund our operations efficiently, or to repay the 5% Convertible Debentures or other debt. Any such limitations, or the perception that such limitations might exist now or in the future, could have an adverse impact on available credit and our valuation and stock price.. In 2012 the Government of Ghana made a number of changes to the mining fiscal regime,  and proposed significant additional changes that will have a significant impact on our overall costs.. In 2012, the Government of Ghana made several changes to the mining fiscal regime and proposed significant additional changes, which if implemented, would result in an increase in the overall corporate tax payable by mining companies in Ghana. The Government increased the income tax rate from 25% to 35% and disallowed expenditures from one mining area as a deduction from revenues in a separate mining area belonging to the same company in determining the company's taxable income for tax purposes. Further it instituted certain tax depreciation limits.. Additionally, the Government announced its intent to introduce a 10% windfall profit tax on mining companies in 2013.. In late 2011, the Government announced that it intends to establish a tax stability renegotiation team which plans to review the existing tax stability agreements of mining companies operating in Ghana. While our mines do not have tax stability agreements, it is not clear at this time if the tax stability renegotiation team will review our Deeds of Warranty which specify certain tax agreements for our properties. Although the specific details of these proposed changes have not been made available, if these changes are implemented, they would have a significant impact on our profitability and financial resources.. We are subject to changes in the regulatory environment where we operate which may increase our costs of compliance.. Our mining operations and exploration activities are subject to extensive regulation governing various matters, including:. • licensing;. • production;. • taxes;. • disposal of process water or waste rock;. • toxic substances;. • development and permitting;. • exports and imports;. • labor standards;. • mine and occupational health and safety;. • environmental protection and corporate responsibility, and. • mine rehabilitation and closure plans.. Compliance with these regulations increases the costs of the following:. • planning;. • designing;. • drilling;. • operating;. 24. • developing;. • constructing; and. • closure, reclamation and rehabilitation and post closure.. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with current laws and regulations in Ghana and elsewhere. However, these laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and reinterpretation. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of mining companies or more stringent implementation or interpretation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on us. These factors could cause a reduction in levels of production and delay or prevent the development or expansion of our properties in Ghana.. The implementation of changes in regulations that limit the amount of proceeds from gold sales that could be withdrawn from Ghana could also have a material adverse impact on us, as Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa/HBB are currently our only sources of internally generated operating cash flows.. Environmental bonding requirements are under review in Ghana and bonding requirements may be increased.. As part of its periodic assessment of mine reclamation and closure costs, the Ghana EPA reviews the adequacy of reclamation bonds and guarantees. In certain cases, it has requested higher levels of bonding based on its findings. If the EPA were to require additional bonding at our properties, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to provide sufficient bonding. If we are unable to meet any such increased requirements or negotiate an acceptable solution with the Government of Ghana, our operations and exploration and development activities in Ghana may be materially adversely affected.. The Government of Ghana has the right to increase its interest in certain subsidiaries.. In accordance with the Minerals and Mining Act, 2006 (Act 703), the Government of Ghana has a 10% carried interest in the mineral operations of Ghanaian mining companies. The carried interest comes into existence at the time the government issues a mining license. As such, the Government of Ghana currently has a 10% carried interest in our subsidiaries that own the Bogoso/Prestea properties and the Wassa/HBB properties.. Under Act 703, the Government of Ghana has the right to acquire a special share or \"golden share\" in such subsidiaries at any time for no consideration or such consideration as the Government of Ghana and such subsidiaries might agree, and a pre-emptive right to purchase all gold and other minerals produced by such subsidiaries. A \"golden share\" carries no voting rights and does not participate in dividends, profits or assets. While the Government of Ghana has not sought to exercise any of these rights at our properties, any such attempts to do so in the future could adversely affect our financial results.. We are subject to risks relating to exploration, development and operations in foreign countries.. Our assets and operations are affected by various political and economic uncertainties in the countries where we operate, including:. • war, civil unrest, terrorism, coups or other violent or unexpected changes in government;. • political instability and violence;. • expropriation and nationalization;. • renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions, licenses, permits, and contracts;. • illegal mining;. • changes in taxation policies;. • unilaterally imposed increases in royalty rates, such as the increase in royalty rates imposed by the Government of Ghana, effective March 2011, which changed the method of calculating the royalties from not less than 3% and not more than 6% of a mine's total mineral revenues to a flat rate of 5% of mineral revenues;. • restrictions on foreign exchange and repatriation; and. • changing political conditions, currency controls, and governmental regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction.. Illegal mining has occurred on our properties which is difficult to control, can disrupt our business and can expose us to liability.. We continue to experience illegal mining activity on our mining and exploration properties. Most of this activity is on our Prestea South properties. While we are proactively working with local, regional and national governmental authorities to obtain. 25. protection of our property rights, any action on the part of such authorities may not occur, may not fully address our problems or may be delayed.. In addition to the impact on our Mineral Reserves and non-reserves, the presence of illegal miners can lead to project delays and disputes and delays regarding the development or operation of commercial gold deposits. Illegal miners could cause environmental damage or other damage to our properties, or personal injury or death, for which we could potentially be held responsible. Illegal miners may work on other of our properties from time to time, and they may in the future increase their presence and have increased negative impacts such as those described above on such other properties.. Our activities are subject to complex laws, regulations and accounting standards that can adversely affect operating and development costs, the timing of operations, the ability to operate our mines and our financial results.. Our business, mining operations and exploration and development activities are subject to extensive Canadian, United States, Ghanaian and other foreign, federal, state, provincial, territorial and local laws and regulations governing exploration, development, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, waste disposal, protection of the environment, reclamation, historic and cultural resource preservation, mine safety and occupational health, toxic substances, reporting and other matters, as well as accounting standards. Compliance with these laws, regulations and standards or the imposition of new such requirements could adversely affect operating and development costs, the timing of operations and the ability to operate and financial results.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business and share price.. Annually, we are required to test our internal controls over financial reporting to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business and share price.. Market Risks. The market price of our common shares has experienced volatility and could continue to do so in the future.. Our common shares are listed on the NYSE MKT, the Toronto Stock Exchange and the Ghana Stock Exchange. Companies with market capitalizations similar to ours have experienced substantial volatility in the past, often based on factors unrelated to the financial performance or prospects of the companies involved. These factors include macroeconomic developments in North America and globally and market perceptions of the attractiveness of particular industries. Our share price is also likely to be significantly affected by short-term changes in gold prices or in our financial condition or results of operations as reflected in our quarterly earnings reports. Other factors unrelated to our performance that could have an effect on the price of our common shares include the following:. • the extent of analytical coverage available to investors concerning our business could be limited if investment banks with research capabilities do not continue to follow our securities;. • the trading volume and general market interest in our securities could affect an investor's ability to trade significant numbers of common shares;. • the size of the public float in our common shares may limit the ability of some institutions to invest in our securities; and. • a substantial decline in our stock price that persists for a significant period of time could cause our securities to be delisted from NYSE MKT, the Toronto Stock Exchange and/or the Ghana Stock Exchange, further reducing market liquidity.. As a result of any of these factors, the market price of our common shares at any given point in time might not accurately reflect our long-term value. Stock markets in general have recently experienced higher levels of volatility. Securities class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of market price volatility that affects the market price of particular securities without regard to the performance of the company whose stock price is affected. We could in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and damages and divert management's attention and resources.. Investors could have difficulty or be unable to enforce certain civil liabilities on us, our directors and our experts.. Golden Star is a Canadian corporation. A majority of our assets are located outside of Canada and the United States, and our principal office was formerly located in the United States. It might not be possible for investors to collect judgments obtained in Canadian courts predicated on the civil liability provisions of Canadian or U.S. securities legislation. It could also be difficult for investors to effect service of process in connection with any action brought in the United States upon our directors and officers. Execution by United States courts of any judgment obtained against us, or any of the directors or executive officers, in. 26. the United States courts would be limited to our assets or the assets of such persons in the United States. The enforceability in Canada of United States judgments or liabilities in original actions in Canadian courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States is doubtful.. There are certain U.S. federal income tax risks associated with ownership of Golden Star common shares.. Holders of our common shares or options, rights and warrants to purchase our common shares or 5% Convertible Debentures, referred to as \"equity securities\", who are U.S. taxpayers should consider that we could be considered to be a \"passive foreign investment company\" (\"PFIC\") for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe that we were a PFIC for the year ended December 31, 2012, and do not expect to become a PFIC in the foreseeable future, we have not undertaken, and do not plan to undertake, a formal study of whether or not we are a PFIC for any taxable year, and we undertake no obligation to advise holders of our equity securities as to our PFIC status for any year. The tests for determining PFIC status depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, and can be subject to uncertainties, and we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for the year ended December 31, 2012 or any future year.. If we are a PFIC for any year, any person who holds our equity securities who is a U.S. person for U.S. income tax purposes, referred to as a U.S. holder, and whose holding period for those equity securities includes any portion of a year in which we are a PFIC, generally would be subject to a special adverse tax regime in respect of \"excess distributions.\" Excess distributions include certain distributions received with respect to PFIC shares in a taxable year. Gain recognized by a U.S. holder on a sale or other transfer of our equity securities (including certain transfers that would otherwise be tax free) also would be treated as excess distributions. Such excess distributions and gains would be allocated ratably to the U.S. holder's holding period. For these purposes, the holding period of shares acquired either through an exercise of options, rights, warrants or the conversion of 5% Convertible Debentures includes the holder's holding period in the option or convertible debt.. The portion of any excess distribution (including gains treated as excess distributions) allocated to the current year would be includible as ordinary income in the current year. The portion of any excess distribution allocated to prior years would be taxed at the highest marginal rate applicable to ordinary income for each such year (regardless of the taxpayer's actual marginal rate for that year and without reduction by any losses or loss carry forwards) and would be subject to interest charges to reflect the value of the U.S. income tax deferral.. Elections may be available to mitigate the adverse tax rules that apply to PFICs (the so-called \"qualified electing fund\" and \"mark-to-market\" elections), but these elections may accelerate the recognition of taxable income and may result in the recognition of ordinary income. These elections are not available to U.S. holders with respect to options, rights and warrants to acquire our common shares or with respect to convertible debentures. We have not decided whether we would provide to U.S. holders of our common shares the annual information that would be necessary to make a qualified electing fund election.. Additional special adverse rules also apply to investors who are U.S. holders who own our common shares if we are a PFIC and have a non-U.S. subsidiary that is also a PFIC. Special adverse rules that impact certain estate planning goals could apply to our equity securities if we are a PFIC.. The conversion feature of the 5% Convertible Debentures could limit increases in the trading price of our common shares.. The conversion price of the 5% Convertible Debentures is $1.65 per share. During periods when our share price is greater than the conversion price, this conversion feature may limit the increase in the price of our common shares, since any increase in the stock price above the conversion price will make it more likely that the 5% Convertible Debentures will be converted, thereby exerting a downward pressure on the market price of the common shares.. The existence of outstanding rights to purchase or acquire common shares could impair our ability to raise capital.. As of March 1, 2013, there were options outstanding to purchase up to 12,645,222 common shares at exercise prices ranging from Cdn$1.08 to Cdn$6.95 per share. In addition, 4,418,396 common shares are available for future issuance under our stock option plans. Furthermore, 47 million common shares are currently issuable upon conversion of the 5% Convertible Debentures (additional shares may be issuable to debenture holders in certain circumstances). During the life of the options, 5% Convertible Debentures and other rights, the holders are given an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of common shares, with a resulting dilution in the interest of the other shareholders. Our ability to obtain additional financing during the period such rights are outstanding could be adversely affected, and the existence of the rights could have an adverse effect on the price of our common shares. The holders of the options, 5% Convertible Debentures and other rights can be expected to exercise or convert them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital by a new offering of securities on terms more favorable than those provided by the outstanding rights.. 27. Current global financial conditions may affect our ability to obtain financing and may negatively affect our asset values and results of operations.. Global financial conditions during recent years have been characterized by heightened volatility and uncertainty. As a result, access to financing has been negatively impacted, which may affect our ability to obtain equity or debt financing in the future on favorable terms. Additionally, these factors, as well as other related factors, may cause decreases in asset values that are deemed to be other than temporary, which may result in impairment losses. If such increased levels of volatility and market turmoil continue or worsen, our operations could be adversely impacted and the trading price of our common shares may be adversely affected."
