[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are risks we believe are material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, also may impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, prospects or ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the risks described below, the information contained under the heading \"Warning Concerning Forward Looking. 27. Table of Contents. Statements\" and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding whether to invest in our securities.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may be unable to lease our properties when our leases expire.. The weighted average remaining term of our leases in effect as of December 31, 2017 is 4.7 years based upon annualized rental income and 4.8 years based upon occupied consolidated square footage. As of December 31, 2017, leases representing approximately 60.2% of our annualized rental income and 60.8% of our occupied consolidated square footage will expire by December 31, 2022. Although we typically will seek to renew our leases with current tenants when they expire, we cannot be sure that we will be successful in doing so. If our tenants do not renew their leases, we may be unable to obtain new tenants to maintain or increase the historical occupancy rates of, or rents from, our properties.. Leases with government contractor tenants tend to be for terms consistent with the tenant's government contracts which are generally three to five years. If a government contractor tenant does not retain its contract, the tenant may not renew its lease. Government contractors are dependent upon government spending. A reduction in government spending can have a negative effect on the contractor's business and the renewal of leases for our properties.. We may experience declining rents or incur significant costs to renew our leases or to lease our properties to new tenants.. When we renew our leases with current tenants or lease to new tenants, we may experience rent decreases, and we may have to spend substantial amounts for leasing commissions, tenant improvements or other tenant inducements. Moreover, many of our properties have been specially designed for the particular businesses of our tenants; if the current leases for such properties are terminated or are not renewed, we may be required to renovate such properties at substantial costs, decrease the rents we charge or provide other concessions in order to lease such properties to new tenants.. Further, laws and regulations applicable to government leasing often require public solicitations of bids when new or renewal leases are being considered. Market conditions may require us to lower our rents to retain government or other tenants. Some of our current rents include payments to amortize the cost of tenant improvements which government or other tenants may be unwilling to pay or contractually allowed to eliminate when leases are renewed.. Current government tenant space utilization trends may adversely impact our business.. Government tenants have been reducing their space utilization per employee when renewing or entering new leases. This may result in a renewing government tenant occupying less space in our property. If that renewing government tenant is the sole occupant of the property, the vacant space may become unleasable. If substantial reconfiguration of the government tenant's space is required to achieve the increase in space utilized, the government tenant may find it more advantageous to relocate than to renew its lease and renovate the existing space.. Current and future government financial and other circumstances and trends in technology may adversely impact our business.. We believe that current government budgetary pressures, enhancements in technology and policy and administrative decisions have resulted in a decrease in government employment, in government tenants reducing their space utilization per employee and in consolidation of government tenants into existing government owned properties, thereby reducing the demand for government leased space. Our historical experience with respect to properties of the type we own that are majority leased to government tenants has been that government tenants frequently renew leases to avoid the costs and disruptions that may result from relocating their operations. However, efforts to reduce space utilization rates may result in our tenants exercising early termination rights under our leases, vacating our properties upon expiration of our leases in order to relocate, or in renewing their leases for less space than they currently occupy. Also, our government tenants' desire to reconfigure leased office space to reduce utilization per employee may require us to spend significant amounts for tenant improvements, and tenant relocations in such circumstances are more prevalent now than in our past experience. Increasing uncertainty with respect to government agency budgets and funding to implement relocations, consolidations and reconfigurations have recently resulted in delayed decisions by some of our government tenants and their reliance on short term lease renewals. At present, we are unable to reasonably project what the financial impact of market conditions or changing government financial circumstances will be on our financial results for future periods.. 28. Table of Contents. For example, reduction in paper tax return processing has resulted in the IRS publicly stating that it plans to discontinue its tax return processing operations at our property located in Fresno, CA in 2021.  The IRS lease for this property, which accounted for approximately 2.0% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2017, expires in the fourth quarter of 2021.  The IRS has also publicly stated that it plans to discontinue its paper tax return processing operations in Covington, KY in 2019.  Our property located in Florence, KY is leased to the IRS and we believe it is used to support the Covington, KY operations.  This IRS lease, which accounted for approximately 0.6% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2017, expires in the second quarter of 2022 but is subject to possible early termination by our tenant.  Despite its public announcements, the IRS has not sent any official notices of its intentions regarding these properties.. We currently have a concentration of properties in the metropolitan Washington, D.C. market area and are exposed to changes in market conditions in this area.. Approximately 43.3% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2017 was received from our consolidated properties located in the metropolitan Washington, D.C. market area. In addition, the two properties owned by two joint ventures in which we own 50% and 51% interests are also located in the metropolitan Washington D.C. market area.  A downturn in economic conditions in this area could result in reduced demand from tenants for our properties or lower the rents that our tenants in this area are willing to pay when our leases expire or terminate and when renewal or new terms are negotiated. Additionally, in recent years there has been a decrease in demand for new leased space by the U.S. Government in the metropolitan Washington, D.C. market area, and that could increase competition for government tenants and adversely affect our ability to retain government tenants when our leases expire.. We may also be subject to changes in the regulatory environment of the metropolitan Washington, D.C. market area (such as increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with government regulations or increased regulation and other factors) or other adverse conditions or events (such as natural disasters). Thus, adverse developments and/or conditions in metropolitan Washington, D.C. market area could reduce demand for space, impact the credit worthiness of our tenants or force our tenants to curtail operations, which could impair their ability to meet their rent obligations to us and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may be unable to grow our business by acquisitions of additional properties, and we might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to our acquired properties, including those acquired as part of the FPO Transaction.. Our business plans involve the acquisition of additional properties that are majority leased to government tenants and government contractor tenants, as well as other properties located in the metropolitan Washington, D.C. market area. There are a limited number of such properties, which may limit our acquisition opportunities. In addition, our ability to make profitable acquisitions is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with:. • competition from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals, foreign investors and other public and private companies;. • our long term cost of capital;. • contingencies in our acquisition agreements; and. • the availability and terms of financing.. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to our acquired properties, including those acquired as part of the FPO Transaction. For example:. • we do not believe that it is possible to understand fully a property before it is owned and operated for a reasonable period of time, and, notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction;. • the market in which an acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value;. • the occupancy of and rents from properties that we acquire may decline during our ownership;. • property operating costs for our acquired properties may be higher than anticipated and our acquired properties may not yield expected returns;. 29. Table of Contents. • we may acquire properties subject to unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with limited recourse, such as liability for the cleanup of undisclosed environmental contamination or for claims by tenants, vendors or other persons related to actions taken by former owners of the properties;. • acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our other business activities; and. • we may encounter unexpected costs and delays in the transition of business and property management functions of FPO properties to us and RMR LLC.. The FPO Transaction was a significant acquisition for us. Until we have fully integrated the properties we acquired as part of the FPO Transaction into our business and fully implement our long term financing plan for the acquisition, we expect that our acquisition activities may be reduced. As a result, our growth by acquisitions will likely be delayed and thereafter could be further delayed or unattained for the reasons noted above or otherwise.. For these reasons, among others, we might not realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions and our business plan to acquire additional properties may not succeed or may cause us to experience losses.. Our plan to sell properties may not be successful.. An element of our business plan involves the sale of properties. We cannot be sure that we will be able to find attractive sale opportunities or that any sale will be completed in a timely manner, if at all. Our ability to sell certain of our properties, and the prices we receive upon a sale, may be affected by many factors, and we may be unable to execute our strategy. In particular, these factors could arise from weakness in or the lack of an established market for a property, changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, the number of prospective purchasers, the number of competing properties on the market, unfavorable local, national or international economic conditions, and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located. We may not succeed in selling properties that we identify for sale, the terms of any such sales may not meet our expectations and we may incur losses in connection with these potential sales.. REIT distribution requirements and limitations on our ability to access reasonably priced capital may adversely impact our ability to carry out our business plan.. To maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains). Accordingly, we may not be able to retain sufficient cash to fund our operations, repay our debts, invest in our properties or fund our acquisitions or development or redevelopment efforts. Our business strategies therefore depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs. The volatility in the availability of capital to businesses on a global basis in most debt and equity markets generally may limit our ability to raise reasonably priced capital. We may also be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business, market perceptions of our prospects, the terms of our indebtedness or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. Because the earnings we are permitted to retain are limited by the rules governing REIT qualification and taxation, if we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, we may not be able to carry out our business plan.. We face significant competition.. We face competition for tenants at our properties. Some competing properties may be newer, better located or more attractive to tenants. Competing properties may have lower rates of occupancy than our properties, which may result in competing owners offering available space at lower rents than we offer at our properties. Development activities may increase the supply of properties of the type we own in the leasing markets in which we own properties and increase the competition we face. Competition may make it difficult for us to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. Government tenants are generally viewed as desirable tenants and are therefore particularly difficult to attract and retain.. We also face significant competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals, foreign investors and other public and private companies. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than us. Because of competition for acquisitions, we may be unable to acquire desirable properties or we may pay higher prices for, and realize lower net cash flows than we hope to achieve from, acquisitions.. 30. Table of Contents. The U.S. Government's \"green lease\" policies may adversely affect us.. In recent years, the U.S. Government has instituted \"green lease\" policies which allow a government tenant to require leadership in energy and environmental design for commercial interiors, or LEED®-CI, designation in selecting new premises or renewing leases at existing premises. In addition, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 allows the GSA to give preference to buildings for lease that have received an \"Energy Star\" label. Obtaining such designation and labels may be costly and time consuming, but our failure to do so may result in our competitive disadvantage in acquiring new or retaining existing government tenants.. Some government tenants have the right to terminate their leases prior to their lease expiration date and changes in the U.S. Government's and state governments' requirements for leased space may adversely affect us.. A majority of our current rents come from government tenants. Some of our leases with government tenants allow the tenants to vacate the leased premises before the stated terms of the leases expire with little or no liability. In particular:. • Tenants occupying approximately 8.6% of our consolidated rentable square feet and contributing approximately 6.8% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2017 have currently exercisable rights to terminate their leases before the stated term of their leases expire.. • In 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026 and 2027, early termination rights become exercisable by other tenants who currently occupy an additional approximately 2.2%, 5.2%, 7.2%, 1.4%, 3.4%, 0.5%, 0.2%, 0.1%, 0.6% and 0.4% of our consolidated rentable square feet, respectively, and contribute an additional approximately 3.6%, 4.9%, 7.0%, 1.4%, 2.9%, 0.6%, 0.3%, 0.2%, 0.8% and 0.4% of our annualized rental income, respectively, as of December 31, 2017.. • Pursuant to leases with 26 of our government tenants, these tenants have currently exercisable rights to terminate their leases if their respective legislature or other funding authority does not appropriate rent amounts in their respective annual budgets.  These 26 tenants represent approximately 12.9% of our consolidated rentable square feet and 12.3% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2017.. For fiscal policy reasons, security concerns or other reasons, some or all of our government tenants may decide to exercise early termination rights under our leases or vacate our properties upon expiration of our leases. We believe the U.S. Government is actively trying to reduce their space utilization per employee and consolidate into existing government owned properties. If a significant number of such events occur, our income and cash flow may materially decline and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders may be jeopardized.. We may be unable to realize our expected expense savings.. We currently expect to realize annual general and administrative expense savings compared to what we and FPO incurred or would have incurred if we had not acquired FPO. Our management agreement with RMR LLC sets the fees that we pay in lieu of certain general and administrative expenses pursuant to a formula based upon the lower of our market capitalization or the historical cost of certain of our assets. Also, we may pay incentive fees to RMR LLC in certain circumstances based upon total returns realized by our shareholders compared to an index of total returns of certain other REITs. Some of these calculations will depend upon future market prices of our securities and other REITs' securities which are beyond our control. Accordingly, the amount of annual general and administrative expense savings which we may realize, if any, cannot be precisely calculated; and, in fact we may realize more or less savings or no savings, and our annual general and administrative expenses incurred as a result of the FPO Transaction may be higher than the aggregate amounts we and FPO incurred or would have incurred if we had not acquired FPO.. We currently anticipate being able to realize property level cost savings at the FPO properties as the management and operations of the FPO properties are combined with our property level operations and those of other companies managed by RMR LLC. However, we may be unable to realize or sustain these property level cost savings or our doing so may take longer than we now anticipate.. Real estate construction and redevelopment creates risks.. We may develop new properties or redevelop some of our existing properties as the existing leases expire, as our tenants' needs change or to pursue any other opportunities that we believe are desirable. The development and redevelopment of new and existing buildings involves significant risks in addition to those involved in the ownership and operation of leased. 31. Table of Contents. properties, including the risks that construction may not be completed on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased construction costs and delays in leasing such properties and generating cash flows. Development activities are also subject to risks relating to the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other required government permits and authorizations. Once completed, any new properties may perform below anticipated financial results. The occurrence of one or more of these circumstances in connection with our development or redevelopment activities could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the value of our securities.. We have debt and we may incur additional debt.. As of December 31, 2017, our consolidated indebtedness was $2.2 billion, our consolidated total debt to total gross assets ratio, with our SIR common shares included in gross assets at market value, was 53.4% and we had $180.0 million available for borrowing under our $750.0 million revolving credit facility.  The agreement governing our revolving credit facility and our $300.0 million term loan and our $250.0 million term loan, or our credit agreement, includes a feature under which the maximum aggregate borrowing availability may be increased to up to $2.5 billion on a combined basis in certain circumstances.. We are subject to numerous risks associated with our debt, including the risk that our cash flows could be insufficient for us to make required payments on our debt. There are no limits in our organizational documents on the amount of debt we may incur, and we may incur substantial debt. Our debt obligations could have important consequences to our securityholders. Our incurring debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, market and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to competitors that have lower debt levels. Excessive debt could limit our ability to obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, construction projects, refinancing, lease obligations or other purposes and hinder our ability to maintain investment grade ratings from nationally recognized credit rating agencies or to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.. If we default under any of our debt obligations, we may be in default under the agreements governing other debt obligations of ours which have cross default provisions, including our credit agreement and our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements. In such case, our lenders may demand immediate payment of any outstanding indebtedness and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process.. We may fail to comply with the terms of our credit agreement and our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements, which could adversely affect our business and may prevent our making distributions to our shareholders.. Our credit agreement and our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements include various conditions, covenants and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including for reasons beyond our control. For example, our credit agreement and our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements require us to maintain certain debt service ratios. Our ability to comply with such covenants will depend upon the net rental income we receive from our properties. If the occupancy at our properties declines or if our rents decline, we may be unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility. Complying with these covenants may limit our ability to take actions that may be beneficial to us and our securityholders.. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we may be unable to meet our obligations or grow our business by acquiring additional properties. If we default under our credit agreement, our lenders may demand immediate payment and may elect not to fund future borrowings. During the continuance of any event of default under our credit agreement, we may be limited or in some cases prohibited from making distributions to our shareholders. Any default under our credit agreement that results in acceleration of our obligations to repay outstanding indebtedness or in our no longer being permitted to borrow under our revolving credit facility would likely have serious adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the value of our securities to decline.. In the future, we may obtain additional debt financing, and the covenants and conditions which apply to any such additional debt may be more restrictive than the covenants and conditions that are contained in our credit agreement or our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements.. Amounts recoverable under our leases for increased operating costs may be less than the actual increased costs.. Under most of our leases, the tenant's obligation to pay us adjusted rent for increased operating costs (e.g., the costs of cleaning services, supplies, materials, maintenance, trash removal, landscaping, snow removal, water, sewer charges, heating, electricity and certain administrative expenses) is increased annually based on a cost of living index rather than the actual amount of our costs. Accordingly, the amount of any rent adjustment may not fully offset any increased costs we may incur in. 32. Table of Contents. providing these services, including any increased costs which result from climate change laws designed to reduce carbon emissions or otherwise.. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us.. Since the most recent U.S. recession, the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, or the U.S. Federal Reserve, has taken actions that have resulted in low interest rates for a long period of time. Since December 2016, the U.S. Federal Reserve has raised its benchmark interest rate by one percentage point, and there are some market expectations that market interest rates will rise further in the near to intermediate term. Market interest rates may continue to increase, and those increases may materially and negatively affect us in several ways, including:. • Investors may consider whether to buy or sell our common shares based upon the distribution rate on our common shares relative to the then prevailing market interest rates. If market interest rates go up, investors may expect a higher distribution rate than we are able to pay, which may increase our cost of capital, or they may sell our common shares and seek alternative investments that offer higher distribution rates. Sales of our common shares may cause a decline in the value of our common shares.. • Amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility and term loans require interest to be paid at variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, our interest costs will increase, which could adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost of refinancing our fixed rate debts when they become due and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.. • Property values are often determined, in part, based upon a capitalization of rental income formula. When market interest rates increase, property investors often demand higher capitalization rates and that causes property values to decline. Increases in interest rates could lower the value of our properties and cause the value of our securities to decline.. Ownership of real estate is subject to environmental risks.. Ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Various federal and state laws impose liabilities upon property owners, including us, for environmental damages arising at, or migrating from, owned properties, and we may be liable for the costs of environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, our properties. As an owner or previous owner of properties, we also may be liable to pay damages to government agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at, or migrating from, such properties. The costs and damages that may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project and may be substantial.. In addition, we believe some of our properties may contain asbestos. We believe any asbestos on our properties is contained in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and we have no current plans to remove it. If we removed the asbestos or demolished the affected properties, certain environmental regulations govern the manner in which the asbestos must be handled and removed, and we could incur substantial costs complying with such regulations.. Environmental liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition and result in losses.. Our leases with non-government tenants generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with applicable law and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from their activities on our properties; however, applicable law may subject us to strict liability by virtue of our property ownership interests. The U.S. Government is not required to indemnify us for environmental hazards they create at our properties and therefore could hold us liable for environmental hazards they create at our properties and we could have no recourse to them.. We do not have any insurance to limit losses that we may incur as a result of known or unknown environmental conditions. However, environmental exposures are difficult to assess and estimate for numerous reasons, including uncertainty about the extent of contamination, alternative treatment methods that may be applied, the location of the property which subjects it to differing local laws and regulations and their interpretations, as well as the time it may take to remediate contamination.. 33. Table of Contents. Ownership of real estate is subject to climate change and adverse weather risks.. Some observers believe severe weather in different parts of the world over the last few years is evidence of global climate change. Severe weather may have an adverse effect on certain properties we own. Flooding caused by rising sea levels and severe weather events, including hurricanes, tornadoes and widespread fires, may have an adverse effect on properties we own and result in significant losses to us and interruption of our business. Also, the political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations that are intended to limit carbon emissions. These or future laws may cause operating costs at our properties to increase. Laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or require us to make material investments in our properties which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and cause the value of our securities to decline.. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities.. In addition to the risks discussed above, our business is subject to other risks associated with real estate ownership, including:. • the illiquid nature of real estate markets, which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions;. • the subjectivity of real estate valuations and changes in such valuations over time;. • current and future adverse national real estate trends, including increasing vacancy rates, declining rental rates and. general deterioration of market conditions;. • costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in government regulations; and. • liabilities and litigations arising from injuries on our properties or otherwise incidental to the ownership of our properties.. RMR LLC relies on information technology and systems in its operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology or those systems could materially and adversely affect us.. RMR LLC relies on information technology and systems, including the Internet and commercially available software, to process, transmit, store and safeguard information and to manage or support a variety of its business processes (including managing our building systems), including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personal identifying information of employees and tenants and lease data. If RMR LLC experiences material security or other failures, inadequacies or interruptions of its information technology, it could incur material costs and losses and our operations could be disrupted as a result. Further, third party vendors could experience similar events with respect to their information technology and systems that impact the products and services they provide to RMR LLC or us. RMR LLC relies on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as its internal procedures and personnel, to provide security for processing, transmitting, storing and safeguarding confidential tenant, customer and vendor information, such as personally identifiable information related to its employees and others and information regarding its and our financial accounts. RMR LLC takes various actions, and incurs significant costs, to maintain and protect the operation and security of its information technology and systems, including the data maintained in those systems. However, it is possible that these measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or a compromise in security, such as in the event of a cyberattack or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information.. Security breaches, computer viruses, attacks by hackers, online fraud schemes and similar breaches can create significant system disruptions, shutdowns, fraudulent transfer of assets or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. For example, in June 2017, RMR LLC became aware that it had been a victim of criminal fraud in which a person pretending to be a representative of a seller in a property acquisition transaction provided fraudulent money wire instructions that caused money to be wire transferred to an account that was believed to be, but was not, the seller's account. We were not involved in that transaction and we did not incur any loss from that transaction; however, there may be a risk that similar fraudulent activities could be attempted against us, RMR LLC or others with respect to our assets. The cybersecurity risks to RMR LLC, us and third party vendors are heightened by, among other things, the evolving nature of the threats faced, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography and new and increasingly sophisticated methods used to perpetuate illegal or fraudulent activities against RMR LLC, including cyberattacks, email or wire fraud and other attacks. 34. Table of Contents. exploiting security vulnerabilities in RMR LLC's or other third parties' information technology networks and systems or operations. Any failure to maintain the security, proper function and availability of RMR LLC's information technology and systems, or certain third party vendors' failure to similarly protect their information technology and systems that are relevant to RMR LLC's or our operations, or to safeguard RMR LLC's or our business processes, assets and information could result in financial losses, interrupt RMR LLC's operations, damage RMR LLC's reputation, cause RMR LLC to be in default of material contracts and subject RMR LLC to liability claims or regulatory penalties. Any or all of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business and the value of our securities.. Current government policies regarding interest rates and trade policies may cause a recession.. The U.S. Federal Reserve policy regarding the timing and amount of future increases in interest rates and changing U.S. and other countries' trade policies may hinder the growth of the U.S. economy. It is unclear whether the U.S. economy will be able to withstand these challenges and continue sustained growth. Economic weakness in the U.S. economy generally or a new U.S. recession would likely adversely affect our financial condition and that of our tenants, could adversely impact the ability of our tenants to renew our leases or pay rent to us, and may cause the values of our properties and of our securities to decline.. Some of our tenants do not have credit ratings.. As a result of the FPO Transaction, a greater number of our tenants are non-government tenants and are not rated by any nationally recognized credit rating organization. It is more difficult to assess the ability of a tenant that is not rated to meet its obligations than that of a rated tenant. Moreover, tenants may be rated when we enter leases with them but their ratings may be later lowered or terminated during the term of the leases. Because we now have a greater number of unrated tenants, we may experience a higher percentage of tenant defaults than we would have had prior to the FPO Transaction or than landlords who have a higher percentage of highly rated tenants.. Our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments.. As part of the FPO Transaction, we acquired two properties (three buildings) which are owned by joint ventures with unrelated third parties, and we may in the future acquire, develop or recapitalize properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities. Our participation in these joint ventures is subject to risks, including the following:. • we may share approval rights over major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property owned by the joint venture;. • we may be required to contribute additional capital if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions;. • our joint venture partners may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and that could affect our ability to lease or release the property, operate the property or maintain our qualification as a REIT;. • our joint venture partners may be subject to different laws or regulations than us, or may be structured differently than us for tax purposes, which could create conflicts of interest and/or affect our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT;. • our ability to sell the interest on advantageous terms when we so desire may be limited or restricted under the terms of the applicable joint venture agreements; and. • disagreements with our joint venture partners could result in litigation or arbitration that could be expensive and distracting to management and could delay important decisions.. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Insurance may not adequately cover our losses.. We are generally responsible for the costs of insurance coverage for our properties, including for casualty, liability, fire and extended coverage. Losses of a catastrophic nature, such as those caused by hurricanes, flooding, volcanic eruptions and. 35. Table of Contents. earthquakes, among other things, may be covered by insurance policies with limitations such as large deductibles or co-payments that we may not be able to pay. Insurance proceeds may not be adequate to restore an affected property to its condition prior to a loss or to compensate us for our losses, including the loss of future revenues from an affected property.. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws.. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act and certain similar state statutes, many commercial properties must meet specified requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures at our properties to comply with these laws. In addition, non-compliance could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages and costs to private litigants. These expenditures may have an adverse impact on our financial results and the value of our securities.. Changes in lease accounting standards may materially and adversely affect us.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, adopted new accounting rules to be effective for fiscal years ending after December 2018, which will require companies to capitalize substantially all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing a lessee's rights and obligations. When the final rules are effective, many companies that account for certain leases on an \"off balance sheet\" basis will be required to account for such leases \"on balance sheet.\" This change will remove many of the differences in the way companies account for owned property and leased property and could have a material effect on various aspects of our tenants' businesses, including the appearance of their credit quality and other factors they consider in deciding whether to own or lease properties. When the rules are effective, or as the effective date approaches, these rules could cause companies that lease properties to prefer shorter lease terms in an effort to reduce the leasing liability required to be recorded on their balance sheets or some companies may decide to prefer property ownership to leasing. Such decisions by our current or prospective tenants may adversely impact our business and the value of our securities.. Our business could be adversely impacted if there are deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting.. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot guarantee that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weaknesses, in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could result in misstatements of our results of operations or our financial statements or could otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. Risks Related to Our Relationships with RMR Inc., RMR LLC and SIR.. We are dependent upon RMR LLC to manage our business and implement our growth strategy.. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us by RMR LLC pursuant to our management agreements with RMR LLC. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR LLC and its ability to manage our properties, identify and complete our acquisitions and dispositions and to execute our growth strategy. Accordingly, our business is dependent upon RMR LLC's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR LLC or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming internally managed or by hiring another manager. In the event RMR LLC is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the fees we pay RMR LLC under our management agreements, and as a result our expenses may increase.. Our management structure and agreements and relationships with RMR LLC and RMR LLC's and its controlling shareholders' relationships with others may create conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts, and may restrict our investment activities.. Our manager, RMR LLC, is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has discretion in determining the properties that will be appropriate investments for us, as well as our individual operating and investment decisions. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our operating activities and investments but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR LLC on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR LLC.. 36. Table of Contents. RMR LLC is a subsidiary of RMR Inc. Our Managing Trustee, Adam Portnoy, as the current sole trustee of ABP Trust is the controlling shareholder of RMR Inc. and as the current sole trustee of ABP Trust beneficially owns all the class A membership units of RMR LLC not owned by RMR Inc. Adam Portnoy, is the managing director, president and chief executive officer of RMR Inc. and an officer of RMR LLC. Barry Portnoy was our other Managing Trustee and a director and an officer of RMR Inc. until his death on February 25, 2018.  RMR LLC or its subsidiary also acts as the manager for five other Nasdaq listed REITs: HPT, which owns hotels and travel centers; ILPT, which primarily owns industrial and logistics properties; SNH, which primarily owns healthcare, senior living properties and medical office buildings; SIR, which primarily owns and invests in net leased, single tenant properties; and TRMT, which primarily originates and invests in first mortgage loans secured by middle market and transitional commercial real estate. RMR LLC also provides services to other publicly and privately owned companies, including: Five Star, which operates senior living communities; TA, which operates and franchises travel centers, convenience stores and restaurants; and Sonesta, which operates, manages and franchises hotels, resorts and cruise ships. An affiliate of RMR LLC is an investment adviser to the RMR Real Estate Income Fund, or RIF, a closed end investment company listed on the NYSE American, which primarily invests in securities of REITs that are not managed by RMR LLC.. Each of our executive officers is also an officer of RMR LLC, including our President and Chief Operating Officer, David Blackman, who is also the president and chief operating officer of SIR and the chief executive officer of TRMT, and our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Mark Kleifges, who is also the chief financial officer and treasurer of HPT and of RIF. Because our executive officers have duties to RMR LLC, and David Blackman and Mark Kleifges have duties to SIR and TRMT and HPT and RIF, respectively, as well as to us, we do not have their undivided attention. They may have conflicts in allocating their time and resources between us and RMR LLC and other companies to which RMR LLC provides services. Our Independent Trustees also serve as independent directors or independent trustees of other companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiary provides management services, including one of our Independent Trustees also serving as an independent trustee of SIR.. In addition to his investment in RMR Inc. and RMR LLC, our Managing Trustee holds equity investments in other companies to which RMR LLC provides management services and some of these companies, including us, have significant cross ownership interests, including, for example: as of February 23, 2018, our Managing Trustee and Barry Portnoy, our former Managing Trustee, owned, directly or indirectly, in aggregate 1.8% of our outstanding common shares, 36.4% of Five Star's outstanding common stock, 1.5% of HPT's outstanding common shares, 1.3% of SNH's outstanding common shares, 1.9% of SIR's outstanding common shares and 9.1% of RIF's outstanding common shares; we own 27.8% of SIR's outstanding common shares; SIR owns 69.2% of ILPT's outstanding common shares; HPT owns 8.6% of TA's outstanding common shares; SNH owns 8.4% of Five Star's outstanding common stock; and Tremont Realty Advisors LLC, a subsidiary of RMR LLC, owns 19.2% of TRMT's outstanding common shares. Our executive officers may also own equity investments in other companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiary provides management services. These multiple responsibilities, relationships and cross ownerships could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR LLC, Adam Portnoy and other RMR LLC personnel, including our executive officers, and give rise to conflicts of interest or the appearance of such conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR Inc., RMR LLC, our Managing Trustee, the other companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiary provides management services and their related parties. Conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business and the market price of our common shares and other securities and we may be subject to increased risk of litigation as a result.. In our management agreements with RMR LLC, we acknowledge that RMR LLC may engage in other activities or businesses and act as the manager to any other person or entity (including other REITs) even though such person or entity has investment policies and objectives similar to our policies and objectives and we are not entitled to preferential treatment in receiving information, recommendations and other services from RMR LLC. Accordingly, we may lose investment opportunities to, and may compete for tenants with, other businesses managed by RMR LLC or its subsidiary. We cannot be sure that our Code of Conduct or our Governance Guidelines, or other procedural protections we adopt will be sufficient to enable us to identify, adequately address or mitigate actual or alleged conflicts of interest or ensure that our transactions with related persons are made on terms that are at least as favorable to us as those that would have been obtained with an unrelated person.. Our management agreements were not negotiated on an arm's length basis and their fee structure may not create proper incentives for RMR LLC, which may increase the risk of an investment in our common shares.. As a result of our relationships with RMR LLC, our management agreements were not negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties, and therefore the terms, including the fees payable to RMR LLC, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if they were negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties. Our property management fees are calculated based on rents we receive and construction supervision fees for construction at our properties. 37. Table of Contents. overseen and managed by RMR LLC, and our base business management fee is calculated based upon the lower of the historical costs of our real estate investments and our market capitalization. These fee arrangements could incentivize RMR LLC to pursue acquisitions, capital transactions, tenancies and construction projects or to avoid disposing of our assets in order to increase or maintain its management fees. If we do not effectively manage our investment, disposition and capital transactions and leasing, construction and other property management activities, we may pay increased management fees without proportional benefits to us. In addition, we pay RMR LLC substantial base management fees regardless of our financial results. RMR LLC's entitlement to a base management fee might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking investments that provide attractive returns for us.. The termination of our management agreements may require us to pay a substantial termination fee, including in the case of a termination for unsatisfactory performance, which may limit our ability to end our relationship with RMR LLC.. The terms of our management agreements with RMR LLC automatically extend on December 31st of each year so that such terms thereafter end on the 20th anniversary of the date of the extension. We have the right to terminate these agreements: (1) at any time on 60 days' written notice for convenience, (2) immediately upon written notice for cause, as defined in the agreements, (3) on written notice given within 60 days after the end of any applicable calendar year for a performance reason, as defined in the agreements, and (4) by written notice during the 12 months following a manager change of control, as defined in the agreements. However, if we terminate a management agreement for convenience, or if RMR LLC terminates a management agreement with us for good reason, as defined in such agreement, we are obligated to pay RMR LLC a termination fee in an amount equal to the sum of the present values of the monthly future fees, as defined in the agreement, payable to RMR LLC for the then remaining term, which depending on the time of termination would be between 19 and 20 years. Additionally, if we terminate a management agreement for a performance reason, as defined in the agreement, we are obligated to pay RMR LLC the termination fee calculated as described above, but assuming a remaining term of 10 years. These provisions substantially increase the cost to us of terminating the management agreements without cause, which may limit our ability to end our relationship with RMR LLC as our manager. The payment of the termination fee could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, including our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.. Our management arrangements with RMR LLC may discourage a change of control of us.. Our management agreements with RMR LLC have continuing 20 year terms that renew annually. As noted in the preceding risk factor, if we terminate either of these management agreements other than for cause or upon a change of control of our manager, we are obligated to pay RMR LLC a substantial termination fee. For these reasons, our management agreements with RMR LLC may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for our common shares.. We may not realize the expected benefits of our acquisition of an interest in RMR Inc.. On June 5, 2015, we participated in a transaction with RMR Inc., RMR LLC, ABP Trust, SIR and two other REITs to which RMR LLC provides management services in which, among other things, we acquired 1,541,201 shares of RMR Inc.'s class A common stock, ABP Trust acquired 700,000 of our common shares and we amended our management agreements with RMR LLC and extended them for continuing 20 year terms, or the Up-C Transaction. In December 2015, we distributed 768,032 of the shares of RMR Inc.'s class A common stock that we received in the Up-C Transaction pro rata to our shareholders. SIR also distributed shares of RMR Inc.'s class A common stock pro rata to its shareholders from which we received 441,056 shares of RMR Inc.'s class A common stock as a shareholder of SIR. We believe the Up-C Transaction provided several benefits to us, including an attractive investment in the equity securities of RMR Inc., the further alignment of the interests of RMR LLC and Adam Portnoy with our interests and greater transparency for us and our shareholders into the compensation practices and financial and operating results of RMR LLC. However, our investment in RMR Inc. is subject to various risks, including the highly competitive nature of RMR LLC's business and the limited public market for RMR Inc.'s securities, among others, which may result in us losing some or all of our investment in RMR Inc. or otherwise not realizing the benefits we expect from the Up-C Transaction. For further information on the Up-C Transaction, see Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The Up-C Transaction and the agreements entered into as part of the Up-C Transaction are among related persons, which increases the risk of allegations of conflicts of interest, and such allegations may impair our ability to realize the benefits we expect from the Up-C Transaction.. Because of the various relationships among us, RMR Inc., RMR LLC and the other REITs to which RMR LLC provides management services, the Up-C Transaction and the agreements entered into as part of the Up-C Transaction, including the amendment and extension of our management agreements for continuing 20 year terms, are among related. 38. Table of Contents. persons. The Up-C Transaction and the terms thereof were negotiated and reviewed by a Joint Special Committee comprised solely of our Independent Trustees and the independent trustees of the other REITs to which RMR LLC then provided management services, or the Joint Special Committee, and were separately approved and adopted by our Independent Trustee who did not serve as an independent trustee of any of the other REITs, by a Special Committee of our Board of Trustees, comprised solely of our Independent Trustees, or our Special Committee, and by our Board of Trustees. Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC acted as financial advisor to the Joint Special Committee and Reynolds Advisory Partners, LLC acted as financial advisor to our Special Committee. Nonetheless, because of these various relationships, the Up-C Transaction was not negotiated on an arm's length basis among unrelated third parties, and therefore may not be on terms as favorable to us or the other applicable REITs to which RMR LLC provides management services as it would have been if it was negotiated on an arm's length basis among unrelated parties. As a result of these relationships, we may be subject to increased risk that our shareholders or the shareholders of the other REITs to which RMR LLC provides management services may challenge the Up-C Transaction and the agreements entered into as part of the Up-C Transaction. Any such challenge could result in substantial costs and be a diversion to our management's attention, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and growth and could adversely affect our ability to realize the benefits we expect from the Up-C Transaction, whether or not the allegations have merit or are substantiated.. We may be at an increased risk for dissident shareholder activities due to perceived conflicts of interest arising from our management structure.. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident shareholder trustee nominations and dissident shareholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with RMR Inc., RMR LLC, SIR, AIC, the other businesses and entities to which RMR LLC or its subsidiaries provide management services, Adam Portnoy and other related persons of RMR LLC may precipitate such activities. Certain proxy advisory firms which have significant influence over the voting by shareholders of public companies have, in the past, recommended, and in the future may recommend, that shareholders withhold votes for the election of our incumbent Trustees and vote against our say on pay vote or other management proposals. These recommendations may affect the outcome of our Board elections and impact our governance, which may increase shareholder activism and litigation. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs, and a diversion of our management's attention, and could have a material adverse impact on our reputation and business.. We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC.. We, ABP Trust, SIR and four other companies to which RMR LLC provides management services each own 14.3% of AIC, and we have invested $6.0 million in AIC. We and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined property insurance program arranged and reinsured in part by AIC and we periodically consider the possibilities for expanding our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. While we believe we have in the past benefitted from these arrangements, these beneficial financial results may not occur in the future, and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may not operate profitably.  Accordingly, financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may not be achieved in the future, and we may experience losses from these dealings.. Risks Related to Our Ownership Interest in SIR. The market price of our ownership in SIR may decline.. We own 24,918,421 SIR common shares.  As of December 31, 2017, the carrying value of our SIR common shares was $467.5 million, and the market price of those common shares was $626.2 million based on the closing price of SIR's common shares on Nasdaq on that day.  The market price for SIR's common shares will vary. If it appears that the market price of our SIR common shares is persistently below the carrying value of our SIR common shares, we may be required to record an impairment charge with regard to our ownership of the SIR common shares, and the amount of this charge may be material.. We may be unable to realize the market price or the carrying value of our SIR common shares at the time of sale.. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we own 27.8% of SIR's total outstanding common shares. Because we own such a large number of SIR common shares which represents such a large percentage of SIR's outstanding common shares, any effort we make to sell our SIR common shares may depress the market price of SIR's common shares and. 39. Table of Contents. we may be unable to realize an otherwise market price for our SIR common shares. Speculation by the press, stock analysts, our shareholders or others regarding our intention with respect to our investment in SIR could adversely affect the market price of SIR's common shares. Also, we may be unable to sell our SIR common shares for an amount equal to their carrying value because of the significance of our SIR holdings, a reduced market price of SIR common shares or otherwise; we may realize a loss on our investment in SIR common shares.. SIR's cash distributions may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that SIR will declare cash distributions in any particular amounts or at all. A reduction in SIR's cash distributions would have a negative effect on us.. SIR's board of trustees may lower the amount of distributions that SIR pays to its shareholders, including us, which would reduce the cash flow we realize by owning our SIR common shares and could adversely impact our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and future distributions on our common shares.. The ability of SIR to pay regular cash distributions is out of our control and made at the discretion of SIR's board of trustees. The declaration of any distribution will depend upon various factors that SIR's board of trustees deems relevant, including its results of operations, its financial condition, the debt and equity capital available to it, the expectation of its capital requirements, the funds from operations attributed to SIR, the normalized funds from operations attributed to SIR, the restrictive covenants in its financial or other contractual arrangements (including those contained in its credit agreement), tax law requirements to maintain its qualification for taxation as a REIT, restrictions under Maryland law and its expected needs for and availability of cash to pay its obligations.. SIR's board of trustees may also amend or revise SIR's operational, financing and investment policies, including its policies with respect to its intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or to approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, SIR's shareholders.. Although we own a large percentage of SIR's outstanding common shares, we do not control SIR's day to day activities, some of which may adversely impact us.. Although we own a large percentage of SIR's outstanding common shares and may have significant influence over SIR's board of trustees and the outcome of shareholder actions, we do not control SIR's day to day activities. Certain activities by SIR could adversely impact us or the market price of our investment in SIR. For example:. • SIR may incur substantial amounts of indebtedness, which may adversely impact the market price of SIR's common shares, including our SIR common shares;. • SIR may determine to issue significant amounts of equity capital, which would dilute our ownership interest in SIR;. • SIR may issue additional common shares at a per share price below the per share carrying value of our SIR common shares, which may require us to reduce our cost basis for our SIR common shares and recognize losses on our SIR investment;. • SIR may incur losses if it is unable to maintain the occupancy or rents it now receives from its properties or its operating expenses increase or otherwise, and any such losses may reduce the market price of our SIR common shares;. • SIR's board of trustees may change or revise SIR's business plans and policies from time to time without shareholder approval, and any such changes could adversely affect SIR's financial condition, results of operations, the market price of SIR's common shares and SIR's ability to make distributions to its shareholders; and. • our relationship with SIR may create conflicts of interest or the perception of such conflicts.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Ownership limitations and certain provisions in our declaration of trust and bylaws, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals.. 40. Table of Contents. Our declaration of trust prohibits any shareholder other than RMR LLC and its affiliates (as defined under Maryland law) and certain persons who have been exempted by our Board of Trustees from owning, directly and by attribution, more than 9.8% of the number or value of shares (whichever is more restrictive) of any class or series of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest, including our common shares. This provision of our declaration of trust is intended to, among other purposes, assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise promote our orderly governance. However, this provision may also inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in control of us or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may consider favorable. Additionally, provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws or under Maryland law may have a similar impact, including, for example, provisions relating to:. • the division of our Trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change of control of us;. • limitations on shareholder voting rights with respect to certain actions that are not approved by our Board of Trustees;. • the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on our Board of Trustees;. • shareholder voting standards which require a supermajority for approval of certain actions;. • the fact that only our Board of Trustees, or if there are no Trustees, our officers, may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting;. • required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Trustee and a requirement that certain of our Trustees be \"Managing Trustees\" and other Trustees be \"Independent Trustees\", as defined in our governing documents;. • limitations on the ability of our shareholders to propose nominees for election as Trustees and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of our shareholders;. • limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove our Trustees; and. • the authority of our Board of Trustees to create and issue new classes or series of shares (including shares with voting rights and other rights and privileges that may deter a change in control) and issue additional common shares.. In addition, our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC provides that AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control.. Our ownership interest in AIC may prevent shareholders from accumulating a large share stake in us, from nominating or serving as Trustees, or from taking actions to otherwise control our business.. As an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any shareholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Trustees or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Trustees may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators. These pre-approval procedures may discourage or prevent investors from purchasing our securities, from nominating persons to serve as our Trustees or from taking other actions.. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Trustees and officers are limited.. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from:. • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or. • active and deliberate dishonesty by the Trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated.. 41. Table of Contents. Our declaration of trust authorizes us, and our bylaws and indemnification agreements require us, to indemnify any present or former Trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in those and certain other capacities. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and indemnification agreements or that might exist with other companies, which could limit our shareholders' recourse in the event of actions not in their best interest.. Disputes with RMR LLC and shareholder litigation against us or our Trustees and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings.. Our contracts with RMR LLC provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our bylaws provide that certain actions by our shareholders against us or against our Trustees and officers, other than disputes, or any portion thereof, regarding the meaning, interpretation or validity of any provision of our declaration of trust or bylaws, may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation in courts against RMR LLC or our Trustees and officers for disputes referred to arbitration in accordance with our bylaws. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding.. Our bylaws designate the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland as the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our Trustees, officers, manager, agents or employees.. Our bylaws currently provide that, unless the dispute has been referred to binding arbitration, the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland will be the sole and exclusive forum for: (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (2) any action asserting a claim for breach of a duty owed by any Trustee, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours to us or our shareholders; (3) any action asserting a claim against us or any Trustee, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours arising pursuant to Maryland law, our declaration of trust or bylaws brought by or on behalf of a shareholder; or (4) any action asserting a claim against us or any Trustee, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Our bylaws currently also provide that the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland will be the sole and exclusive forum for any dispute, or portion thereof, regarding the meaning, interpretation or validity of any provision of our declaration of trust or bylaws. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring or holding any interest in our shares of beneficial interest shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to these provisions of our bylaws, as they may be amended from time to time. These choice of forum provisions may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder believes is favorable for disputes with us or our Trustees, officers, manager, agents or employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our Trustees, officers, manager or agents.. We may change our operational, financing and investment policies without shareholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations.. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational, financing and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Further, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. Our Board of Trustees may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing at any time without shareholder approval. If this policy changes, we could become more highly leveraged, which could result in an increase in our debt service costs. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. In addition, a change in our investment policies, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, real estate market fluctuations and liquidity risk.. 42. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Taxation. Our failure to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC could have significant adverse consequences.. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal or most state income taxes as long as we distribute all of our REIT taxable income and meet other qualifications set forth in the IRC. However, actual qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC depends on our satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that qualified and will continue to qualify us to be taxed as a REIT under the IRC. However, we cannot be sure that the IRS, upon review or audit, will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that the federal government, or any state or other taxation authority, will continue to afford favorable income tax treatment to REITs and their shareholders.. Maintaining our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC will require us to continue to satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forgo attractive investments.. If we cease to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under our credit agreement, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the market price of our common shares could decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying for taxation as a REIT for the next four taxable years.. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates applicable to \"qualified dividends.\". Dividends payable by U.S. corporations to noncorporate shareholders, such as individuals, trusts and estates, are generally eligible for reduced federal income tax rates applicable to \"qualified dividends.\" Distributions paid by REITs generally are not treated as \"qualified dividends\" under the IRC and the reduced rates applicable to such dividends do not generally apply. However, for tax years beginning after 2017 and before 2026, REIT dividends paid to noncorporate shareholders are generally taxed at an effective tax rate lower than applicable ordinary income tax rates due to the availability of a deduction under the IRC for specified forms of income from passthrough entities. More favorable rates will nevertheless continue to apply to regular corporate \"qualified\" dividends, which may cause some investors to perceive that an investment in a REIT is less attractive than an investment in a non-REIT entity that pays dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our common shares.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, subject to specified adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, federal corporate income tax will not apply to the earnings that we distribute, but if we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, then we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the IRC. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws.. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, among other things, we may borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions in order to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our shareholders' equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could cause the market price of our common shares to decline.. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, we may be subject to federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, excise taxes, state or local income, property and transfer taxes, and other taxes. Also, some jurisdictions may in the future limit or eliminate favorable income tax deductions, including the dividends paid deduction, which could increase our income tax expense. In addition, in order to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the IRC, prevent the recognition of particular types of non-cash. 43. Table of Contents. income, or avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to specified gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold or dispose of some of our assets and conduct some of our operations through our TRSs or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. In addition, while we intend that our transactions with our TRSs will be conducted on arm's length bases, we may be subject to a 100% excise tax on a transaction that the IRS or a court determines was not conducted at arm's length. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. We may incur adverse tax consequences if FPO failed to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC prior to the FPO Transaction.. We received an opinion from FPO's counsel that FPO was organized and operated in conformity with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the IRC prior to the FPO Transaction. If, contrary to that opinion, FPO failed to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, then we may inherit significant tax liabilities as a result of the FPO Transaction because, as the successor by merger to FPO, we would generally inherit any corporate income tax liabilities of FPO, including penalties and interest.. It is unclear whether the IRC provisions that are generally available to remediate REIT compliance failures will be available to us as a successor in respect of any determination that FPO failed to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC. If and to the extent the remedial provisions are available to us to address FPO's qualification and taxation as a REIT under the IRC for the applicable period prior to or including the FPO Transaction, we may have to expend significant resources in connection with the remediation, including, among other things, (a) required distribution payments to shareholders and associated interest payments to the IRS, and (b) tax and interest payments to the IRS and state and local tax authorities.. FPO's failure to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC for the applicable period prior to or including the FPO Transaction and our efforts to remedy any such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could materially and adversely affect us and our shareholders.. The rules dealing with U.S. federal, state, and local taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and other taxation authorities. Changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect us and our shareholders. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect us or our shareholders. New legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify for taxation as a REIT or the tax consequences of such qualification.. In addition, December 2017 legislation has made substantial changes to the IRC. Among those changes are a significant permanent reduction in the generally applicable corporate income tax rate, changes in the taxation of individuals and other noncorporate taxpayers that generally reduce their taxes on a temporary basis subject to \"sunset\" provisions, the elimination or modification of various deductions (including substantial limitation of the deduction for personal state and local taxes imposed on individuals), and preferential taxation of income derived by individuals from passthrough entities in comparison to earnings received directly by individuals.  This legislation also imposes additional limitations on the deduction of net operating losses, which may in the future cause us to make additional distributions that will be taxable to our shareholders to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements.  The effect of these and other changes made in this legislation is highly uncertain, both in terms of their direct effect on the taxation of an investment in our common shares and their indirect effect on the value of properties owned by us.  Furthermore, many of the provisions of the new law will require guidance through the issuance of Treasury regulations in order to assess their effect. There may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us or our shareholders.  It is also possible that there will be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the new law, the effect of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us or our shareholders.. Risks Related to our Securities. Our distributions to our shareholders may decline.. We intend to continue to make regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However:. • our ability to make or sustain the rate of distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K occur;. 44. Table of Contents. • our making of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our credit agreement and may be subject to restrictions in future debt obligations we may incur; and. • the timing and amount of any distributions will be determined at the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend on various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our financial condition, our results of operations, our liquidity, our capital requirements, our FFO, our Normalized FFO, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements, general economic conditions in the United States, requirements of the IRC to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT and restrictions under the laws of Maryland.. For these reasons, among others, our distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions to our shareholders.. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the value of our securities.. As with other publicly traded equity securities and REIT securities, the value of our common shares and other securities depends on various market conditions that are subject to change from time to time, including:. • the extent of investor interest in our securities;. • the general reputation of REITs and externally managed companies and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate based companies or by other issuers less sensitive to rises in interest rates;. • our underlying asset value;. • investor confidence in the stock and bond markets, generally;. • market interest rates;. • national economic conditions;. • changes in tax laws;. • changes in our credit ratings; and. • general market conditions.. We believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell equity securities of a REIT is the distribution rate, considered as a percentage of the price of the equity securities, relative to market interest rates. Interest rates have been at historically low levels for an extended period of time. There is a general market perception that REIT shares outperform in low interest rate environments and underperform in rising interest rate environments when compared to the broader market. Since December 2016, the U.S. Federal Reserve has raised its benchmark interest rate by one percentage point, and there are some market expectations that market interest rates will rise further in the near to intermediate term. If market interest rates continue to increase, or if there continues to be market expectation of such increases, prospective purchasers of REIT equity securities may want to achieve a higher distribution rate. Thus, higher market interest rates, or the expectation of higher interest rates, could cause the value of our securities to decline.. Further issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to current shareholders.. The interests of our existing shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities to finance future acquisitions or to repay indebtedness. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, which may include secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, which may include common and preferred shares.. The Notes are structurally subordinated to the payment of all indebtedness and other liabilities and any preferred equity of our subsidiaries.. We are the sole obligor on our outstanding senior unsecured notes, and our outstanding senior unsecured notes and any notes or other debt securities we may issue in the future, or, together with our outstanding senior unsecured notes, the Notes, and such Notes are not, and any Notes we may issue in the future may not be guaranteed by any of our subsidiaries. Our. 45. Table of Contents. subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due on the Notes, or to make any funds available therefor, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments. The rights of holders of Notes to benefit from any of the assets of our subsidiaries are subject to the prior satisfaction of claims of our subsidiaries' creditors and any preferred equity holders. As a result, the Notes are, and, except to the extent that future Notes are guaranteed by our subsidiaries, will be, structurally subordinated to all of the debt and other liabilities and obligations of our subsidiaries, including guarantees of other indebtedness of ours, payment obligations under lease agreements, trade payables and preferred equity. As of December 31, 2017, our subsidiaries had total indebtedness and other liabilities (excluding security and other deposits and guaranties) of $238.5 million.. The Notes are unsecured and effectively subordinated to all of our existing and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness.. The outstanding Notes are not secured and any Notes we may issue in the future may not be secured. Upon any distribution to our creditors in a bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or similar proceeding relating to us or our property, the holders of our secured debt will be entitled to exercise the remedies available to a secured lender under applicable law and pursuant to the instruments governing such debt and to be paid in full from the assets securing that secured debt before any payment may be made with respect to Notes that are not secured by those assets. In that event, because such Notes will not be secured by any of our assets, it is possible that there will be no assets from which claims of holders of such Notes can be satisfied or, if any assets remain, that the remaining assets will be insufficient to satisfy those claims in full. If the value of such remaining assets is less than the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Notes and accrued interest and all future debt ranking equally with such Notes, we will be unable to fully satisfy our obligations under such Notes. In addition, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our secured debt, the holders of that secured debt would be entitled to foreclose on our assets securing that secured debt and liquidate those assets. Accordingly, we may not have sufficient funds to pay amounts due on such Notes. As a result, noteholders may lose a portion or the entire value of their investment in such Notes. Further, the terms of the outstanding Notes permit, and the terms of any Notes we may issue in the future may permit us to incur additional secured indebtedness subject to compliance with certain debt ratios. The Notes that are not secured will be effectively subordinated to any such additional secured indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had $183.1 million in secured mortgage debt.. There may be no public market for certain of the Notes, and one may not develop, be maintained or be liquid.. We have not applied for listing of certain of the Notes on any securities exchange or for quotation on any automatic dealer quotation system, and we may not do so for Notes issued in the future. We can give no assurances concerning the liquidity of any market that may develop for such Notes, the ability of any holder to sell such Notes or the price at which holders would be able to sell such Notes. If a market for such Notes does not develop, holders may be unable to resell such Notes for an extended period of time, if at all. If a market for such Notes does develop, it may not continue or it may not be sufficiently liquid to allow holders to resell such Notes. Consequently, holders of such Notes may not be able to liquidate their investment readily, and lenders may not readily accept such Notes as collateral for loans.. The Notes may trade at a discount from their initial issue price or principal amount, depending upon many factors, including prevailing interest rates, the ratings assigned by rating agencies, the market for similar securities and other factors, including general economic conditions and our financial condition, performance and prospects. Any decline in market prices, regardless of cause, may adversely affect the liquidity and trading markets for the Notes.. 46. Table of Contents. A downgrade in credit ratings could materially adversely affect the market price of the Notes and may increase our cost of capital.. The outstanding Notes are rated by two rating agencies and any Notes we may issue in the future may be rated by one or more rating agencies. These credit ratings are continually reviewed by rating agencies and may change at any time based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. In June 2017, both Moody's Investors Service, or Moody's, and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, or S&P, published reviews of our credit ratings and assigned negative outlooks to our ratings. These negative outlooks imply that our credit ratings may be downgraded to below \"investment grade.\" If our credit ratings are downgraded, we may have difficulty accessing debt capital markets to meet our obligations and the costs of any debt we do obtain may be increased. For example, the interest rates we are required to pay on our revolving credit facility and our other floating rate debt obligations will increase if our credit ratings are downgraded. We intend to sell some assets, to pay certain debt, to otherwise adjust our capital structure and to take other actions which we believe may avoid any credit ratings downgrade; however, we can provide no assurance that these efforts will be successful to avoid our credit ratings being downgraded. Negative changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities could have an adverse effect on the market price of the Notes and our costs and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.. Redemption may adversely affect noteholders' return on the Notes.. We have the right to redeem some or all of the outstanding Notes prior to maturity and may have such a right with respect to any Notes we issue in the future. We may redeem such Notes at times when prevailing interest rates may be relatively low compared to the interest rate of such Notes. Accordingly, noteholders may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as that of the Notes."
