[1] "Item 1A:  Risk Factors. The following are some of the factors that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical results and from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements made by us.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may also harm our business.  Most of these risks are generally beyond our control.  If any of the risks or uncertainties described below, or any such additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Changing economic conditions in the United States, the United Kingdom and the other countries in which we conduct our operations could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our revenues and profitability are related to general levels of economic activity and employment primarily in the United States and the United Kingdom.  As a result, economic recession in both of those countries could harm our business and financial condition. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from Fortune 500 companies and their global equivalents, which historically have decreased expenditures for external training during economic downturns.  If the economies in which these companies operate are weakened in any future period, these companies may reduce their expenditures on external training, and other products and services supplied by us, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  As we expand our business globally, we might be subject to additional risks associated with economic conditions in the countries into which we enter or in which we expand our operations.. Our revenue and financial condition could be adversely affected by the loss of business from significant customers, including financial services institutions and automotive manufacturers.. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, revenue from our customers in the financial services & insurance sector accounted for approximately 20%, 21% and 21%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue. In addition, we have a concentration of revenue from a single financial services customer, which accounted for approximately 14% and 15% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, billed and unbilled accounts receivable from this customer totaled $26.1 million, or 16%, of our consolidated accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts balances. A default in payment from this client or a decline in the volume of business from this client and other major financial services customers could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. 8. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, revenue from our customers in the automotive industry accounted for approximately 22%, 22% and 19%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue. In addition, we have a concentration of revenue from a single automotive customer, which accounted for approximately 13% of our consolidated revenue for both of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. As of December 31, 2017 accounts receivable from a single automotive customer totaled $18.3 million, or 15% of our consolidated accounts receivable balance. Historically, U.S. auto manufacturers have been negatively impacted during times of economic downturns and recession, resulting in significant reductions in vehicle sales requiring the auto manufacturers to cut costs. A decline in the volume of business from automotive customers could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Substantially all of our contracts are subject to termination on written notice and, therefore, our operations are dependent upon our customers' continued satisfaction with our services and their continued inability or unwillingness to perform those services themselves or to engage other third-parties to deliver such services.. Our successful performance of learning services under our Global Master Agreement with HSBC is subject to many risks.. On July 2, 2013, we entered into an agreement (the \"Global Master Agreement\") with HSBC Holdings plc (\"HSBC\") to provide global learning services. The Global Master Agreement, as originally written and as amended and restated in 2017, establishes a contractual framework pursuant to which we and certain of our wholly owned subsidiaries have entered into local services agreements with certain members of HSBC's group of companies in respect of countries in which the learning services are to be provided by us.  The initial term of the Global Master Agreement was three years. In January 2016, we announced that HSBC exercised its option to extend the Global Master Agreement for two additional years, which extended the contract to July 2018. Effective February 23, 2018, the Global Master Agreement was extended to July 2019.. The Global Master Agreement requires us and our subsidiaries that are parties to local services agreements to identify over $10 million in total global savings on HSBC's learning expenses over the initial three year term and $6.7 million over the two year extension period. This obligation is applicable only if we and our subsidiaries receive, globally, revenue of at least $30 million per year for each of the first three contract years and $35 million per year over the two year extension period. We are required to pay HSBC the shortfall, if any, for any calendar year, between the savings realized and the savings guaranteed for that year. We identified savings in excess of the amounts guaranteed.. The Global Master Agreement includes certain minimum service level requirements that we must meet or exceed. If we fail to meet a given performance standard, HSBC will, in certain circumstances, receive a credit against the charges otherwise due.. Additionally, HSBC has the right to periodically engage a third party to perform benchmark studies to determine whether our services, the level and quality to which our services are being provided and the applicable charges under the Global Master Agreement are within the top quartile for best-value-for-money for comparable services provided by our competitors. If the benchmark report states that any benchmarked service is not within the top quartile for best-value-for-money for services comparable to our benchmarked services etc., then we must implement changes as soon as reasonably practicable.. HSBC has the right to terminate the Global Master Agreement and the relevant HSBC contracting party has the right to terminate any local services agreement to which it is a party, in whole or in part, for, among other things, convenience on three months' written notice.. Our successful performance of the Global Master Agreement and the associated local services agreements, is subject to many risks, including the effect(s) that fixed prices for four years, the guaranteed savings provision, the key milestone penalties and service level credits and the benchmarking requirements may have on our ability to perform services in a profitable manner; additional currency exchange rate exposure; local tax requirements and our need to concurrently establish and maintain reliable payroll, accounting, purchasing, tax management, employment practices, project management, asset management and information technology infrastructure in many countries where we did not have those capabilities.. The price of our common stock is highly volatile and could decline regardless of our operating performance.. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate in response to, among other things:. • changes in economic and general market conditions;. • changes in the outlook and financial condition of certain of our significant customers and industries in which we have a concentration of business;. 9. • changes in financial estimates, treatment of our tax assets or liabilities or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • sales of common stock by our directors, officers and significant stockholders;. • factors affecting securities of companies included in the Russell 2000R Index, in which our common stock is included;. • our failure to achieve operating results consistent with securities analysts' projections; and. • the operating and stock price performance of competitors.. These factors might adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price at which you purchased it.  In addition, in recent periods, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations.  This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including ours and others in our industry.  These changes can occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies.  As a result, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price.. A substantial portion of our assets consists of goodwill and intangible assets, which are subject to impairment. We could incur material asset impairment charges in future periods.. As of December 31, 2017, we had goodwill of $144.8 million and other intangible assets of $8.4 million in connection with acquisitions. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment unless circumstances or events indicate that an impairment test should be performed sooner to determine if there has been any impairment to value.  The review for impairment is based on several factors requiring judgment. A decrease in expected cash flows or change in market conditions, among other things, may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. We tested our goodwill at the reporting unit level as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 and there was no indication of impairment.. Our acquisitions in recent years have not involved the acquisition of significant tangible assets and, as a result, a significant portion of the purchase price in each case was allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets. We will continue to test for impairment on an annual basis or on an interim basis if events and circumstances indicate a possible impairment. However, we may incur material goodwill or other intangible asset impairment charges in the future related to past acquisitions.. Our financial results are subject to quarterly fluctuations, which may result in volatility or declines in our stock price.. We experience, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Consequently, you should not deem our results for any particular quarter to be necessarily indicative of future results.  Factors that may affect quarterly operating results in the future include:. • the overall level of services and products sold;. • the volume of publications shipped by our Sandy Training & Marketing segment each quarter, because revenue and cost of publications contracts are recognized in the quarter during which the publications ship;. • fluctuations in project profitability;. • the gain or loss of material clients;. • the timing, structure and magnitude of acquisitions;. • participant training volume and general levels of outsourcing demand from clients in the industries that we serve;. • the budget and purchasing cycles of our clients, especially of the governments and government agencies that we serve;. • the commencement or completion of client engagements or services and products in a particular quarter;. • currency fluctuations; and. • the general level of economic activity.. Accordingly, it is difficult for us to forecast our growth and results of operations on a quarterly basis.  If we fail to meet expectations of investors or analysts, our stock price may fall rapidly and without notice.  Furthermore, the fluctuation of quarterly operating results may render less meaningful period-to-period comparisons of our operating results.. Sagard Capital Partners, L.P. (\"Sagard\") may exert influence over us and could delay or deter a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take actions with which other stockholders may disagree.. As of December 31, 2017, Sagard beneficially owned 3,639,367 shares or 21.7% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, until Sagard owns less than certain specified amounts of common stock or certain other conditions have been met, Sagard is entitled. 10. to designate an individual to serve on our board of directors. As a result, Sagard may exert influence over our decision to enter into any corporate transaction or with respect to any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders, regardless of whether other stockholders believe that the transaction is in their own best interests. This could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders.. We are vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the markets we serve.. The demand for our services and products is dependent upon training and marketing budgets and the existence of projects with training, engineering, procurement, construction or management needs.  Although downturns can impact our entire business, the automotive, financial and insurance, manufacturing, electronics and semiconductors, construction, alternative fuels and energy industries are examples of sectors that are cyclical in nature and have been affected from time to time by fluctuations in either national or worldwide demand for our services.  Industries such as these and many of the others we serve have historically been and might continue to be vulnerable to general downturns and are and might continue to be cyclical in nature.  During economic downturns, our clients might demand better terms.  In addition, many of our training contracts are subject to modification in the event of certain material changes in the business or demand for our services.  Our government clients also might face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding proposed and existing projects.  As a result, our past results have varied considerably and could continue to vary depending upon the demand for future projects in the industries that we serve.. We may continue making acquisitions as part of our growth strategy, which subjects us to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As part of our growth strategy, we may continue to pursue selective acquisitions of businesses that broaden our service and product offerings, deepen our capabilities and allow us to enter attractive new domestic and international markets.  Pursuit of acquisitions exposes us to many risks, including that:. • acquisitions may require significant capital resources and divert management's attention from our existing business;. • acquisitions may not provide the benefits anticipated;. • acquisitions could subject us to contingent or other liabilities, including liabilities arising from events or conduct predating the acquisition of a business that were not known to us at the time of the acquisition;. • we may incur significantly greater expenditures in integrating an acquired business than had been initially anticipated;. • acquisitions may create unanticipated tax and accounting problems; and. • acquisitions may result in a material weakness in our internal controls if we are not able to successfully establish and implement proper controls and procedures for the acquired business.. Our failure to successfully accomplish future acquisitions or to manage and integrate completed or future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  We can provide no assurances that we:. • will identify suitable acquisition candidates;. • can consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms;. • can successfully compete for acquisition candidates against larger companies with significantly greater resources;. • can successfully integrate any acquired business into our operations or successfully manage the operations of any acquired business; or. • will be able to retain an acquired company's significant client relationships, goodwill and key personnel or otherwise realize the intended benefits of any acquisition.. In addition, acquisitions might involve our entry into new businesses that might not be as profitable as we expect.  We can provide no assurances that our expectations regarding the profitability of future acquisitions will prove to be accurate. Acquisitions might also increase our exposure to the risks inherent in certain markets or industries.. As a result of completed and possible future acquisitions, our past performance is not indicative of future performance, and investors should not base their expectations as to our future performance on our historical results.. Future acquisitions may require that we incur debt or issue dilutive equity.. Future acquisitions may require us to incur additional debt, under our existing credit facility or otherwise, or issue equity, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership.. 11. Difficulties in integrating acquired businesses could result in reduced revenues and income.. We might not be able to integrate successfully any business we have acquired or could acquire in the future.  The integration of the businesses could be complex and time consuming and will place a significant strain on our management, administrative services personnel and information systems.  This strain could disrupt our business.  Furthermore, we could be adversely impacted by liabilities of acquired businesses.  We could encounter substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in integrating common accounting, information and communication systems, operating procedures, internal controls and human resources practices, including incompatibility of business cultures and the loss of key employees and customers.  Also, depending on the type of acquisition, a key element of our strategy may include retaining management and key personnel of the acquired business to operate the acquired business for us.  Our inability to retain these individuals could materially impair the value of an acquired business. In addition, small businesses acquired by us may have greater difficulty competing for new work as a result of being part of our larger entity. These difficulties could reduce our ability to gain customers or retain existing customers, and could increase operating expenses, resulting in reduced revenues and income and a failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions.. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by government limitations on contractor profitability.. A significant portion of our revenue and profit is derived from contracts with the U.S. Government and subcontracts with prime contractors of the U.S. Government.  The U.S. Government places limitations on contractor profitability; therefore, government-related contracts might have lower profit margins than the contracts we enter into with commercial customers.. A negative audit or other actions by the U.S. Government could adversely affect our future operating performance.. As a U.S. Government contractor, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to U.S. Government contracts and are subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which companies with solely commercial customers are not subject.  We are subject to audit and investigation by the DCAA and other government agencies with respect to our compliance with federal laws, regulations and standards.  These audits may occur several years after the period to which the audit relates.  The DCAA, in particular, also reviews the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies, including our purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems.  Any payments received by us from the U.S. Government for allowable direct and indirect costs are subject to adjustment after audit by government auditors and repayment to the government if the payments exceed allowable costs as defined in the government contracts, which could result in a material adjustment of the payments received by us under such contracts.  In addition, any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed.  If we are found to be in violation of the law, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including contract termination, the assessment of penalties and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. Government agencies.  For example, many of the contracts we perform for the U.S. Government are subject to the Service Contract Act, which requires hourly employees to be paid certain specified wages and benefits.  If the Department of Labor determines that we violated the Service Contract Act or its implementing regulations, we could be suspended for a period of time from winning new government contracts or renewals of existing contracts, which could materially and adversely affect our future operating performance.. Furthermore, our reputation could suffer serious harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. If we are suspended or prohibited from contracting with the U.S. Government, or any significant U.S. Government agency, if our reputation or relationship with U.S. Government agencies becomes impaired or if the U.S. Government otherwise ceases doing business with us or significantly decreases the amount of business it does with us, it could materially and adversely affect our operating performance and could result in additional expenses and a loss of revenue.. We are a party to fixed price contracts and may enter into similar contracts in the future, which could result in reduced profits or losses if we are not able to accurately estimate or control costs or meet specific service levels.. A significant portion of our revenue is attributable to contracts entered into on a fixed price basis, which allows us to benefit from cost savings, but we carry the burden of cost overruns.  If our initial estimates are incorrect, or if unanticipated circumstances arise, we could experience cost overruns which would result in reduced profits or even result in losses on these contracts.  Our financial condition is dependent upon our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts.  Lower earnings or losses caused by cost overruns could have a negative impact on our financial results.. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses.  Under cost-reimbursable contracts, which are subject to a contract ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which. 12. may be fixed or performance based.  However, if costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs.. Our inability to successfully estimate and manage costs on each of these contract types may materially and adversely affect our financial condition. Cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards.. Also, many of our contracts include clauses that tie our compensation to the achievement of agreed-upon performance standards. If we fail to satisfy these measures, it could significantly reduce or eliminate our fees under the contracts. Clients also often have the right to terminate a contract and pursue damage claims under the contract for serious or repeated failure to meet these service commitments. These provisions could increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on those contracts.. Our revenues may be adversely affected if we fail to win competitively awarded contracts or to receive renewal or follow-on contracts.. We obtain many of our significant contracts through a competitive bidding process. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including, without limitation:. • the need to compete against companies or teams of companies that may have more financial and marketing resources and more experience in bidding on and performing major contracts than we have;. • the need to compete against companies or teams of companies that may be long-term, entrenched incumbents for a particular contract for which we are competing;. • the need to compete to retain existing contracts that have in the past been awarded to us;. • the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge new contract awards;. • the need to submit proposals for scopes of work in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen cost overruns;. • the substantial cost and managerial time and effort, including design, development and marketing activities necessary to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that we may not win;. • the need to develop, introduce and implement new and enhanced solutions to our customers' needs;. • the need to locate and contract with teaming partners and subcontractors; and. • the need to accurately estimate the resources and costs that will be required to perform over the term of the contract and any extension periods any fixed price or fixed rate contract that we win.. There are no assurances that we will continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to receive renewal or follow-on contracts. Renewal and follow-on contracts are important because our contracts are for fixed terms. These terms vary from shorter than one year to over five years, particularly for contracts with extension options. The loss of revenues from our failure to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain renewal or follow-on contracts may be significant because competitively awarded contracts account for a substantial portion of our sales.. Our backlog is subject to reduction and cancellation, which could negatively impact our future revenues or earnings.. Our backlog for services under executed contracts (including subcontracts and purchase orders) was approximately $268.6 million, $284.6 million and $239.1 million as of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  There can be no assurance that the revenues projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits.  Further, contract terminations or reductions in the original scope of contracts reflected in our backlog might occur at any time as discussed below in more detail.. Our backlog consists of projects for which we have signed contracts from customers.  The rate at which services are performed under contracts, and thus the rate at which backlog will be recognized, may be at the discretion of the client.  We cannot predict with certainty when or if backlog will be performed.  In addition, even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that customers could default or otherwise fail to pay amounts owed to us.  Material delays, terminations or payment defaults under contracts included in our backlog could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, most of our contracts are subject to termination by the client upon written notice.  Reductions in our backlog due to termination by a customer or for other reasons could materially and adversely affect the revenues and earnings we actually receive from contracts included in our backlog.  If we experience terminations of significant contracts or significant scope adjustments to contracts reflected in our backlog, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow could be materially and adversely impacted.. 13. We rely on third parties, including subcontractors, suppliers, teaming partners, software vendors and others to deliver the services we must provide to our customers and to operate our business, and disputes with or the failure to perform satisfactorily of such a third party could materially and adversely affect our performance, our ability to obtain future work, and our ability to manage our business effectively.. Many of our contracts involve subcontracts or agreements with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services or products we must provide to our customers. We also rely on third parties to provide us services and products we use for other functions in the operation of our business. There is a risk that we may have disputes with these third parties, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of services or work provided by the third party.  A failure by one or more of third parties on whom we rely to satisfactorily provide, on a timely basis, the agreed upon services or products may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations to our customer or effectively operate our business. Third party performance deficiencies could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Also, from time to time we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other similar arrangements which involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to the joint venture, teaming and other similar arrangements.. We maintain a workforce based upon anticipated staffing needs.  If we do not receive future contract awards or if these awards are delayed or reduced in scope or funding, we could incur significant costs.. Our estimates of future staffing requirements depend in part on the timing of new contract awards.  We make our estimates in good faith, but our estimates could be inaccurate or change based upon new information.  In the case of larger projects, it is particularly difficult to predict whether we will receive a contract award and when the award will be announced.  In some cases the contracts that are awarded require staffing levels that are different, sometimes lower, than the levels anticipated when the work was proposed.  The uncertainty of contract award timing and changes in scope or funding can present difficulties in matching our workforce size with our contract needs.  If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, or if a contract is awarded for a smaller scope of work than proposed, we could incur significant costs associated with making or failing to make reductions in staff.. Failure to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business.. Our principal resource is our personnel.  A significant portion of our revenue is derived from services and products that are delivered by instructors, engineers, technical personnel and consultants.  Our consulting, technical training and engineering services require the employment of individuals with specific skills, training, licensure and backgrounds.  An inability to hire or maintain employees with the required skills, training, licensure or backgrounds could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide quality services, to expand the scope of our service offerings or to attract or retain customers or to accept contracts, which could negatively impact our business and financial condition.  In order to initiate and develop client relationships and execute our growth strategy, we must continue to hire and maintain qualified salespeople.  We must also continue to attract and develop capable management personnel to guide our business and supervise the use of our resources.. Similarly, our U.S. Government contracts require employment of individuals with specified skills, work experience, licensures, security clearances and backgrounds.  An inability to hire or maintain employees with the required skills, work experience, licensure, security clearances or backgrounds could have a material adverse effect on our ability to win new contracts or satisfy existing contractual obligations, and could result in additional expenses or possible loss of revenue.. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense.  We cannot assure you that qualified personnel will continue to be available to us or will be available to us when our needs arise or on terms favorable to us.  Any failure to attract or retain qualified instructors, engineers, technical personnel, consultants, salespeople and managers in sufficient numbers could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. The loss of our key personnel, including our executive management team, could harm our business.. Our success is largely dependent upon the experience and continued services of our executive management team and our other key personnel.  The loss of one or more of our key personnel and a failure to attract, develop or promote suitable replacements for them could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operation or financial condition. In 2017, our President indicated an intention to leave in 2019 and in November we promoted one of our senior vice presidents to be our new President. We also removed an Executive Vice President who had led one of our business segments for many years, hired a new Chief Sales Officer, replaced our Chief Financial Officer and reorganized our business from four into two segments effective January 1, 2018.. 14. Competition could materially and adversely affect our performance.. The training industry is highly fragmented and competitive, with low barriers to entry and no single competitor accounting for a significant market share.  Our competitors include divisions of several large publicly traded and privately held companies, vocational and technical training schools, degree-granting colleges and universities, continuing education programs and thousands of small privately held training providers and individuals.  In addition, many of our clients maintain internal training departments, which have the resources and ability to provide the same or similar services in-house.  Some of our competitors offer similar services and products at lower prices, and some competitors have significantly greater financial, managerial, technical, marketing and other resources.  Moreover, we expect to face additional competition from new entrants into the training and performance improvement market due, in part, to the evolving nature of the market and the relatively low barriers to entry.. The engineering and construction markets in which we compete are also highly competitive.  Many of our competitors are niche engineering and construction companies.  In some instances, it is necessary for us to partner with those competitors who meet the small business administration's criteria for a small business in order to win contract awards.  This competition places downward pressure on our contract prices and profit margins.  Intense competition is expected to continue in our training, engineering and technical services markets, presenting us with significant challenges in our ability to maintain strong growth rates and acceptable profit margins.  If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share to our competitors and experience an overall reduction in our profits.. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the industries or markets in which we compete, and the failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to keep pace with technology and changing market needs could harm our business.. Our future success will depend upon our ability to adapt to changing client needs, to gain expertise in technological advances rapidly and to respond quickly to evolving industry trends and market needs.  Many of our clients are demanding that our services be available across the U.S. and worldwide.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our operations into all geographic areas into which our multinational clients seek to use our services or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to provide our services in all such geographic areas.  We also cannot assure you that we will be successful in adapting to advances in technology or marketing our services and products in advanced formats.  In addition, services and products delivered in the newer formats might not provide comparable training results. Furthermore, subsequent technological advances might render moot any successful expansion of the methods of delivering our services and products.  If we are unable to develop new means of delivering our services and products due to capital, personnel, technological or other constraints, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We have only a limited ability to protect the intellectual property rights that are important to our success, and we face the risk that our services or products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others.. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and other intellectual property, including our EtaPRO\231 software.  Existing laws of some countries in which we provide or license or intend to provide or license our services or products may offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights.  We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements and copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights.  The steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property, and we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights.  Protecting our intellectual property rights might also consume significant management time and resources.. We cannot be sure that our services and products, or the products of others that we offer to our clients, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we might have infringement claims asserted against us or against our clients.  These claims might harm our reputation, result in financial liabilities and prevent us from offering some services or products.  We have generally agreed in our contracts to indemnify our clients against expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of the intellectual property rights of third parties.  In some instances, the amount of these indemnities could be greater than the revenues we receive from the client.  Any claims or litigation in this area, whether we ultimately win or lose, could be time-consuming and costly, injure our reputation or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements.  We might not be able to enter into these royalty or licensing arrangements on acceptable terms.  Any limitation on our ability to provide or license a service or product could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop new or modified solutions for future projects.. 15. Our information technology systems are subject to risks that we cannot control.. Our information technology systems, including technology systems provided by third parties, are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems, and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure that have experienced system failures and electrical outages in the past.  Our systems are susceptible to slow access and download times, outages from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, hacking, and similar events.  Our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, hacking, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems.  The occurrence of any of these events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit our internal operations, our ability to provide services to our customers, and the ability of our customers to access our information technology systems.  This could result in our loss of customers, loss of revenue or a reduction in demand for our services, or affect the ability to manage our business effectively.. We may experience difficulties implementing our new global enterprise resource planning system.. In the first quarter of 2017, we began the implementation of a new global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, which we expect to be operational in the second half of 2018, which is later than our originally planned date of January 1, 2018. We believe the new ERP system will provide greater depth and breadth of functionality than our current ERP system, allowing us to more effectively manage business and financial data, human resources functions, supply chain, and other business processes and information that is important to our management team. Implementation of the new ERP system will require significant investment of human and financial resources throughout the year, which may distract from other key initiatives. In implementing the new ERP system, we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A breach of our security measures (or security measures of third-parties we have engaged) could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our databases contain our confidential data and confidential data of our clients and our clients' customers, employees and vendors, including sensitive personal data.  As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the national laws implementing the European Union Directive on Data Protection (and, after May 25, 2018, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation) and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and sometimes conflict among the various countries in which we operate. We have implemented security measures, both directly and with third-party subcontractors and service providers, with the intent of maintaining the security of any confidential information which has been entrusted to us against unauthorized access through our information systems or by other electronic transmission or through the misdirection, theft or loss of physical media. A party, including one of our employees, who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate such confidential information or interrupt our operations.  Many of our contracts require us to comply with specific data security requirements.  If we are unable to maintain our compliance with these data security requirements or any person, including any of our current or former employees, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive data, we could be subject to significant liabilities to our clients or other parties or subject to legal actions for breaching these data security requirements or other contractual confidentiality provisions.  These liabilities might not be subject to a contractual limit of liability or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages and could be significant. Furthermore, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential data of our clients or other parties, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, could also damage our reputation and cause us to lose existing and potential clients.  We may also be subject to civil actions, regulatory enforcement actions, and criminal prosecution for breaches related to such data or need to expend significant capital and other resources to continue to protect against security breaches or to address any problem they may cause. In addition, our liability insurance, which includes cyber insurance, might not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyberattacks and other related breaches.. Our international sales and operations expose us to various political and economic risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our revenue outside of the U.S. was approximately 31%, 31% and 30% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We conduct our business globally.  We established over a dozen new subsidiaries in select countries since 2013 to support new global outsourcing contracts. We may continue to expand our global operations into countries other than those in which we currently operate.  It could also involve expanding into less developed countries, which may have less political, social or economic stability and less developed infrastructure and legal systems. We may encounter challenges adapting to cultural differences compared to the U.S. International sales and operations might be subject to a variety of risks, including:. 16. • greater difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations;. • greater risk of uncollectible accounts;. • longer collection cycles;. • logistical and communications challenges;. • potential adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices, including export license requirements, trade barriers, tariffs and tax laws;. • changes in labor conditions, burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws;. • political and economic instability;. • increases in duties and taxation;. • exchange rate risks;. • greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property;. • general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets;. • acts of war or terrorism or natural disasters, and limits on the ability of governments to respond to such acts;. • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a particular country; or. • nationalization of foreign assets and other forms of governmental protectionism.. As we expand our business into new countries, we may increase our exposure to the risks discussed above. An adverse development relating to one or more of these risks could affect our relationships with our customers or could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Approximately 31% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017 was denominated in foreign currencies. British Pound Sterling-denominated revenue represented approximately 20% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017.  As a result, changes in the exchange rates of foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect our reported consolidated U.S. dollar revenue, cost of revenue and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted.. Business disruptions could adversely affect our future sales, financial condition, reputation or stock price or increase costs and expenses.. Our business, and that of our key suppliers and customers, may be impacted by disruptions including, but not limited to, threats to physical security, information technology attacks or failures, damaging weather or other acts of nature and pandemics or other public health crises.  Such disruptions could affect our internal operations or services provided to customers, adversely impacting our sales, financial condition, reputation or stock price or increase our costs and expenses.. We are subject to potential liabilities which are not covered by our insurance.. We engage in activities in which there are substantial risks of potential liability.  We provide services involving electric power distribution and generation, nuclear power, chemical weapons destruction, petrochemical process training, pipeline operations, volatile fuels such as hydrogen and liquefied natural gas (\"LNG\"), environmental remediation, engineering design and construction management.  We maintain a global insurance program (including general liability coverage) covering the businesses we currently own.  Claims by or against any covered insured could reduce the amount of available insurance coverage for the other insureds and for other claims. In addition, certain liabilities might not be covered at all, such as deductibles, self-insured retentions, amounts in excess of applicable insurance limits and claims that fall outside the coverage of our policies.. Although we believe that we currently have appropriate insurance coverage, we do not have coverage for all of the risks to which we are subject and we may not be able to obtain appropriate coverage on a cost-effective basis in the future.. Our policies exclude coverage for incidents involving nuclear liability, and we may not be covered by U.S. laws or industry programs providing liability protection for licensees of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (typically utilities) for damages caused by nuclear incidents; we are not a licensee and few of our contracts with clients have contained provisions waiving or limiting our liability.  Therefore, we could be materially and adversely affected by a nuclear incident.  In addition, certain environmental risks, such as liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended, (\"Superfund\"), also might not be covered by our insurance.. 17. Some of our policies, such as our professional liability insurance policy, provide coverage on a \"claims-made\" basis covering only claims actually made during the policy period then in effect.  To the extent that a risk is not insured within our then-available coverage limits, insured under a low-deductible policy, indemnified against by a third party or limited by an enforceable waiver or limitation of liability, claims could be material and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws.. We provide environmental engineering services, including the development and management of site environmental remediation plans.  Although we subcontract most remediation construction activities, and in all cases subcontract the removal and off-site disposal and treatment of hazardous substances, we could be subject to liability relating to the environmental services we perform directly or through subcontracts. For example, if we were deemed under federal or state laws, including Superfund, to be an \"operator\" of sites to which we provide environmental engineering and support services, we could be subject to liability for cleanup costs or violations of applicable environmental laws and regulations at such sites.  Any incurrence of any substantial Superfund or other environmental liability could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition by reducing profits, causing us to incur losses related to the cost of resolving such liability or otherwise.. In addition, our environmental engineering services involve professional judgments about the nature of physical and environmental conditions, including the extent to which hazardous substances are present, and about the probable effect of procedures to mitigate or otherwise affect those conditions.  If the judgments and the recommendations based upon those judgments are incorrect, we may be liable for resulting damages incurred by our clients.. Our authorized preferred stock and certain provisions in our amended and restated by-laws could make a third party acquisition of us difficult.. Our restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, (\"restated certificate\"), allows us to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights, preferences, qualifications, limitations and restrictions of which may be fixed by the Board of Directors without any further vote or action by the stockholders.  In addition, our amended and restated bylaws provide, among other things, that stockholders seeking to bring business before or to nominate candidates for election as directors at an annual meeting of stockholders must provide us with timely advance written notice of their proposal in a prescribed form.  Our amended and restated bylaws also provide that stockholders desiring to call a special meeting for any purpose, must submit to us a request in writing of stockholders representing at least 50% of the combined voting power of all issued and outstanding classes of capital stock and stating the purpose of such meeting.  The ability to issue preferred stock and such provisions in our bylaws might have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a change in control that might otherwise be beneficial to stockholders and might materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In addition, some provisions of Delaware law, particularly the \"business combination\" statute in Section 203 of Delaware General Corporation Law, might also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us.  As a result of these provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law, the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock might be limited.. Our restated certificate allows us to redeem or otherwise dispose shares of our common stock owned by a foreign stockholder if certain U.S. Government agencies threaten termination of any of our contracts as a result of such an ownership interest.. The United States Departments of Energy and Defense have policies regarding foreign ownership, control or influence over government contractors who have access to classified information, and might conduct an inquiry as to whether any foreign interest has beneficial ownership of 5% or more of a contractor's or subcontractor's voting securities.  If either Department determines that an undue risk to the defense and security of the United States exists as a result of foreign ownership, control or influence over a government contractor (including as a result of a potential acquisition), it might, among other things, terminate the contractor's or subcontractor's existing contracts.  Our restated certificate allows us to redeem or require the prompt disposition of all or any portion of the shares of our common stock owned by a foreign stockholder beneficially owning 5% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock if either Department threatens termination of any of our contracts as a result of such an ownership interest.  These provisions may have the additional effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a change in control and might materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In connection with the sale of shares of common stock to Sagard in December 2009, we agreed to render these provisions, as well as other anti-takeover measures, inapplicable to Sagard.. 18"
