[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves significant risks. You should carefully read all of the information included in this report and carefully consider, among other matters, the following risk factors, as well as any discussed under Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations.\"  If any of the conditions or events described in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or growth prospects could be affected materially and adversely.  In that case, the market price of our securities could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment.. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, individually or in the aggregate, may also impair our business operations.. RISKS RELATING TO US. A downturn in global economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business.. A global, regional or localized economic downturn may reduce customer demand or inhibit our ability to produce our products, negatively impacting our operating results. Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be sensitive to economic downturns (including credit market tightness which can impact our liquidity as well as that of our customers, suppliers and other business partners), declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, volatile exchange rates and other challenges that can affect the economy. Our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages and difficulty obtaining financing, leading them to delay or cancel plans to purchase products, and they may not be able to fulfill their obligations in a timely fashion. Further, suppliers and other business partners may experience similar conditions, which could impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. Also, it could be difficult to find replacements for business partners without incurring significant delays or cost increases). Such events and other economic matters would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations.. As more fully described under \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" we are currently facing a challenging environment for our products, particularly our Industrial Materials products, as a result of global economic conditions.. 14. Table of Contents. The International Monetary Fund reported GDP growth figures for 2016 at approximately 3.1 percent. We believe that worldwide the graphite electrode industry manufacturing capacity utilization rate excluding China was approximately 68% for 2015 and 76% for 2016 and including China capacity utilization was approximately 64% in 2015 and 63% in 2016.. These lower capacity utilization rates may continue to be driven by a challenging environment for our customers which would negatively impact demand for our Industrial Materials products and may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations for 2017.. We are dependent on the global steel industry.. We sell our Industrial Materials products, which accounted for 100% of our total net sales within continuing operations in 2016, primarily to the EAF steel production industry. Our customers, including major steel producers, are experiencing and may continue to experience downturns or financial distress that could adversely impact our ability to collect our accounts receivable or to collect them on a timely basis.. The steel industry has historically been highly cyclical and is affected significantly by general economic conditions. Significant customers for the steel industry include companies in the automotive, construction, appliance, machinery, equipment and transportation industries, all of which continue to be affected by the general economic downturn and the deterioration in financial markets, including severely restricted liquidity and credit availability.. We sell products used in the transportation, semiconductor, solar, petrochemical, electronics, and other industries which are susceptible to global and regional economic downturns. Many of our other products are sold primarily to the electronics, transportation, alternative energy, and oil and gas exploration industries. These are global basic industries, and they are experiencing various degrees of contraction, growth and consolidation. Customers in these industries are located in every major geographic region. As a result, our customers are affected by changes in global and regional economic conditions. This, in turn, affects overall demand and prices for our products sold to these industries. As a result of changes in economic conditions, demand and pricing for our products sold to these industries has fluctuated and in some cases declined significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Demand for our products sold to these industries may be adversely affected by improvements in our products as well as in the manufacturing operations of customers, which reduce the rate of consumption or use of our products.. Sales volumes and prices of our products sold to these industries are impacted by the supply/demand balance as well as overall changes in demand, excess capacity and growth of and consolidation within, the end markets for our products. In addition to the factors mentioned above, the supply/demand balance is affected by factors such as business cycles, rationalization, and increases in capacity and productivity initiatives within our industry and the end markets for our products, and certain of such factors are affected by decisions by us. Changes in the supply/demand balance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. In addition, a continuation of the current difficult economic conditions may lead current or potential customers of our Engineered Solutions business to delay or reduce technology purchases or slow their adoption of new technologies. This may result in a continued reduction, or slower rate of recovery, of sales of our Engineered Solutions products and increased price competition, which could materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. Our indebtedness could limit our financial and operating activities, and adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs.. As of December 31, 2016, we had approximately $365.4 million of total indebtedness principal outstanding, This includes $274.1 million of Senior Notes ($300.0 million due upon maturity).   The Company also has access to a $225 million Revolving Facility (subject to a $25 million minimum liquidity requirement).   As of December 31, 2016, the Company had $61.2 million of borrowings and $12.3 million of letters of credit, for a total of $73.5 million drawn against the Revolving Facility.. .  This substantial amount of indebtedness could:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities;. 15. Table of Contents. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Senior Notes, including our repurchase obligations;. • limit our ability to borrow additional money if needed for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes, on satisfactory terms or at all;. • limit our ability to adjust to changing economic, business and competitive conditions;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who may have less indebtedness or greater access to financing;. • make us more vulnerable to an increase in interests rates, a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in general economic conditions; and. • make us more susceptible to changes in credit ratings, which could impact our ability to obtain financing in the future and increase the cost of such financing.. If compliance with our debt obligations under the Revolving Facility materially limits our financial or operating activities, or hinders our ability to adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may be negatively affected.. The Credit Agreement governing the Revolving Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes includes covenants that could restrict or limit our financial and business operations.. The Credit Agreement and the Indenture contain a number of restrictive covenants that, subject to certain exceptions and qualifications, restrict or limit GTI's ability and the ability of GTI's subsidiaries to, among other things:. • incur, repay or refinance indebtedness;. • create liens on or sell our assets;. • engage in certain fundamental corporate changes or changes to our business activities;. • make investments or engage in mergers or acquisitions;. • engage in sale-leaseback transactions;. • pay dividends or repurchase stock;. • engage in certain affiliate transactions;. • enter into agreements or otherwise restrict GTI's subsidiaries from making distributions or paying dividends to the borrowers under the Revolving Facility; and. • repay intercompany indebtedness owed to GTI or make distributions or pay dividends to GTI.. The Credit Agreement also contains certain affirmative covenants and requires us to comply with financial coverage ratios regarding both our cash interest expense and our senior secured debt relative to our EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement).. These covenants and restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business, and may limit our ability to react to market conditions or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise.  Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including general economic and credit conditions and industry downturns.. If we fail to comply with the covenants in the Credit Agreement and are unable to obtain a waiver, or amendment, an event of default would result, and the lenders could, among other things, declare outstanding amounts due and payable, refuse to lend additional amounts to us, require deposit of cash collateral in respect of outstanding letters of credit, or refuse to waive any restrictive covenants in the Credit Agreement, including the restriction which prohibits dividends and distributions from GTI's subsidiaries to GTI to fund payment of indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, during a default or event of default.  If we were unable to repay or pay the amounts due, the lenders could, among. 16. Table of Contents. other things, proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness, which includes substantially all of the assets of GTI and its U.S. subsidiaries and certain assets of certain of GTI's foreign subsidiaries.. Our cash flows may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness, and if we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, we may be required to seek other financing alternatives, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make timely payments of principal and interest on our debt obligations, including the Senior Notes and our obligations under the Revolving Facility, depends on our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations, which is subject to general economic conditions, competitive pressures and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control.  If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to make these payments, we may be required to seek additional financing sources, reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations or refinance our indebtedness.  These actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.  In addition, we may not be able to take any of these actions, and, even if successful, these actions may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.  Our ability to restructure or refinance the debt under the Revolving Facility will depend on, among other things, the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and the outstanding principal and interest on our debt could be declared to be due and payable, in which case we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation or required to substantially restructure or alter our business operations or debt obligations.. Borrowings under the Revolving Facility bear interest at a variable rate, which subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. All of our borrowings under the Revolving Facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk.  If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on this variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same.. We may not be able to raise the funds necessary to finance a change of control repurchase under the Indenture governing the Senior Notes.. Upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event under the Indenture, holders of Senior Notes may require us to purchase their Senior Notes.  However, it is possible that we would not have sufficient funds at that time to make the required purchase of Senior Notes.  We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the repurchase price in cash with respect to any Senior Notes tendered by holders for repurchase upon a change of control.  Our failure to repurchase the Senior Notes when required would result in an event of default under the Indenture which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness, if any.. The Credit Agreement governing the Revolving Facility includes covenants that could restrict or limit our ability to repurchase the Senior Notes in a change of control repurchase event.. Upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event under the indenture governing the Senior Notes, holders of Senior Notes may require us to purchase their Senior Notes.  The Credit Agreement contains a restrictive covenant on the repurchase or retirement of indebtedness, which could limit or restrict our ability to make the required repurchase of Senior Notes.  If the repurchase of Senior Notes does violate covenants in the Credit Agreement and if we are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would occur if we repurchased the Senior Notes, and the lenders under the Credit Agreement could, among other things, declare outstanding amounts thereunder due and payable, refuse to lend additional amounts to us, and require a deposit of cash collateral in respect of outstanding letters of credit.  If we were unable to repay or pay the amounts due, the lenders could, among things, proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness, which includes substantially all of the assets of GTI and GTI's U.S. subsidiaries and certain assets of certain of GTI's foreign subsidiaries.. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.. Any rating assigned to our debt could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant.  Any future lowering of our ratings likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing.  In January 2016, Moody's downgraded our Senior Notes from B1 to Caa1.. 17. Table of Contents. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, which may continue indefinitely or intensify, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers.. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed to conduct or expand our businesses or conduct acquisitions or make other discretionary investments, as well as our ability to effectively hedge our currency or interest rate risks and exposures. Such disruptions may also adversely impact the capital needs of our customers and suppliers, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We are subject to risks associated with operations in multiple countries.. A substantial majority of our net sales are derived from sales outside the U.S., and a majority of our operations and our total property, plant and equipment and other long- lived assets are located outside the U.S. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with operating in multiple countries, including:. • currency devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, including impacts of transactions in various currencies, impact on translation of various currencies into dollars for U.S. reporting and financial covenant compliance purposes, and impacts on results of operations due to the fact that costs of our foreign subsidiaries are primarily incurred in local currencies while their products are primarily sold in dollars and euros;. • imposition of or increases in customs duties and other tariffs;. • imposition of or increases in currency exchange controls, including imposition of or increases in limitations on conversion of various currencies into dollars, euros, or other currencies, making of intercompany loans by subsidiaries or remittance of dividends, interest or principal payments or other payments by subsidiaries;. • imposition of or increases in revenue, income or earnings taxes and withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;. • imposition of or increases in investment or trade restrictions by the U.S. or by non-U.S. governments or trade sanctions adopted by the U.S.;. •  inability to definitively determine or satisfy legal requirements, inability to effectively enforce contract or legal rights and inability to obtain complete financial or other information under local legal, judicial, regulatory, disclosure and other systems; and. • nationalization or expropriation of assets, and other risks which could result from a change in government or government policy, or from other political, social or economic instability.. We cannot assure you that such risks will not have a material adverse effect on us or that we would be able to mitigate such material adverse effects in the future.. In addition to the factors noted above, our results of operations and financial condition are affected by inflation, deflation and stagflation in each country in which we have a manufacturing facility. We cannot assure you that future increases in our costs will not exceed the rate of inflation or the amounts, if any, by which we may be able to increase prices for our products.. Our ability to grow and compete effectively depends on protecting our intellectual property. Failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect us.. We believe that our intellectual property, consisting primarily of patents and proprietary know-how and information, is important to our growth. Failure to protect our intellectual property may result in the loss of the exclusive right to use our technologies. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and confidentiality and restricted use agreements to protect our intellectual property. Some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application or any such agreement.. Patents are subject to complex factual and legal considerations. Accordingly, there can be uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of any particular patent. Therefore, we cannot assure you that:. 18. Table of Contents. • any of the U.S. or foreign patents now or hereafter owned by us, or that third parties have licensed to us or may in the future license to us, will not be circumvented, challenged or invalidated;. • any of the U.S. or foreign patents that third parties have non-exclusively licensed to us, or may non-exclusively license to us in the future, will not be licensed to others; or. • any of the patents for which we have applied or may in the future apply will be issued at all or with the breadth of claim coverage sought by us.. Moreover, patents, even if valid, only provide protection for a specified limited duration.. We cannot assure you that agreements designed to protect our proprietary know-how and information will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our strategic alliance suppliers and customers, consultants, employees or others will not assert rights against us with respect to intellectual property arising out of our relationships with them.. In addition, effective patent, trademark and trade secret protection may be limited, unavailable or not applied for in the U.S. or in any of the foreign countries in which we operate.. Further, we cannot assure you that the use of our patented technology or proprietary know-how or information does not infringe the intellectual property rights of others.. Intellectual property protection does not protect against technological obsolescence due to developments by others or changes in customer needs.. The protection of our intellectual property rights may be achieved, in part, by prosecuting claims against others whom we believe have misappropriated our technology or have infringed upon our intellectual property rights, as well as by defending against misappropriation or infringement claims brought by others against us. Our involvement in litigation to protect or defend our rights in these areas could result in a significant expense to us, adversely affect the development of sales of the related products, and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of the outcome of such litigation.. If necessary, we may seek licenses to intellectual property of others. However, we can give no assurance to you that we will be able to obtain such licenses or that the terms of any such licenses will be acceptable to us. Our failure to obtain a license from a third party for its intellectual property that is necessary for us to make or sell any of our products could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or use of processes requiring the use of such intellectual property.. Our current and former manufacturing operations are subject to increasingly stringent health, safety and environmental requirements.. We use and generate hazardous substances in our manufacturing operations. In addition, both the properties on which we currently operate and those on which we have ceased operations are and have been used for industrial purposes. Further, our manufacturing operations involve risks of personal injury or death. We are subject to increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to our current and former properties, neighboring properties, and our current raw materials, products, and operations. These laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations and sometimes require evaluation and registration or the installation of costly pollution control or safety equipment or costly changes in operations to limit pollution or decrease the likelihood of injuries. It is also possible that the impact of such regulations on our suppliers could affect the availability and cost of our raw materials. In addition, we may become subject to potential material liabilities for the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, for claims alleging personal injury or property damage resulting from exposure to or releases of hazardous substances, or for personal injury as a result of an unsafe workplace. Further, alleged noncompliance with or stricter enforcement of, or changes in interpretations of, existing laws and regulations, adoption of more stringent new laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown contamination or imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could be material.. We may face risks related to greenhouse gas emission limitations and climate change.. There is growing scientific, political and public concern that emissions of greenhouse gases (\"GHG\") are altering the atmosphere in ways that are affecting, and are expected to continue to affect, the global climate. Legislators,. 19. Table of Contents. regulators and others, as well as many companies, are considering ways to reduce GHG emissions. GHG emissions are regulated in the European Union via an Emissions Trading Scheme (\"ETS\"), otherwise known as a \"Cap and Trade\" program. In the United States, environmental regulations issued in 2009 and 2010 require reporting of GHG emissions by defined industries, activities and suppliers, and regulate GHG as a pollutant covered under the New Source Review, Prevention of Significant Deterioration (\"PSD\") and Title V Operating Permit programs of the Clean Air Act Amendments. It is possible that some form of regulation of GHG emissions will also be forthcoming in other countries in which we operate or market our products. Regulation of GHG emissions could impose additional costs, both direct and indirect, on our business, and on the businesses of our customers and suppliers, such as increased energy and insurance rates, higher taxes, new environmental compliance program expenses, including capital improvements, environmental monitoring, and the purchase of emission credits, and other administrative costs necessary to comply with current requirements and potential future requirements or limitations that may be imposed, as well as other unforeseen or unknown costs. To the extent that similar requirements and limitations are not imposed globally, such regulation may impact our ability to compete with companies located in countries that do not have such requirements or do not impose such limitations. The company may also realize a change in competitive position relative to industry peers, changes in prices received for products sold, and changes to profit or loss arising from increased or decreased demand for products produced by the company. The impact of any future GHG regulatory requirements on our global business will be dependent upon the design of the regulatory schemes that are ultimately adopted and, as a result, we are unable to predict their significance to our operations at this point in time.. The potential physical impacts of climate change on the Company's operations are uncertain and will likely be particular to the geographic circumstances. These physical impacts may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns, shortages of water or other natural resources, changing sea levels, and changing global average temperatures. For instance, our Seadrift facility in Texas and our Calais facility in France, are located in geographic areas less than 50 feet above sea level. As a result, any future rising sea levels could have an adverse impact on their operations and on their suppliers. Due to these uncertainties, any future physical effects of climate change may or may not adversely affect the operations at each of our production facilities, the availability of raw materials, the transportation of our products, the overall costs of conducting our business, and our financial performance.. We face certain litigation and legal proceedings risks that could harm our business.. We are involved in various product liability, occupational, environmental, and other legal claims, demands, lawsuits and other proceedings arising out of or incidental to the conduct of our business. The results of these proceedings are difficult to predict. Moreover, many of these proceedings do not specify the relief or amount of damages sought. Therefore, as to a number of the proceedings, we are unable to estimate the possible range of liability that might be incurred should these proceedings be resolved against us. Certain of these matters involve types of claims that, if resolved against us, could give rise to substantial liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations.. We are dependent on supplies of raw materials and energy. Our results of operations could deteriorate if that supply increases in cost or is substantially disrupted for an extended period.. We purchase raw materials and energy from a variety of sources. In many cases, we purchase them under short term contracts or on the spot market, in each case at fluctuating prices. The availability and price of raw materials and energy may be subject to curtailment or change due to:. • limitations which may be imposed under new legislation or regulation;. • supplier's allocations to meet demand of other purchasers during periods of shortage (or, in the case of energy suppliers, extended cold weather);. • interruptions or cessations in production by suppliers, and. • market and other events and conditions.. Petroleum and coal products, including decant oil, petroleum coke and pitch, our principal raw materials, and energy, particularly natural gas, have been subject to significant price fluctuations.. We have in the past entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, derivative contracts and short duration fixed rate purchase contracts to effectively fix a portion of our exposure to certain products.. 20. Table of Contents. A substantial increase in raw material or energy prices which cannot be mitigated or passed on to customers or a continued interruption in supply, particularly in the supply of decant oil, petroleum coke or energy, would have a material adverse effect on us.. Seadrift could be impacted by a reduction in the availability of low sulfur decant oil or an increase in the pricing of petroleum needle coke feedstocks.. Seadrift uses low sulfur decant oil in the manufacture of petroleum needle coke. There is no assurance that Seadrift will always be able to obtain an adequate quantity of suitable feedstocks or that capital would be available to install equipment to allow for utilization of higher sulfur decant oil, which is more readily available in the United States, in the event that suppliers of lower sulfur decant oil were to become more limited in the future. Seadrift purchases approximately 1.5 million barrels of low sulfur decant oil annually. The prices paid by Seadrift for such feedstocks are governed by the market for heavy fuel oils, which prices can fluctuate widely for various reasons including, among other things, worldwide oil shortages and cold winter weather. Seadrift's petroleum needle coke is used in the manufacture of graphite electrodes, the price of which is subject to rigorous industry competition thus restricting Seadrift's ability to pass through raw material price increases.. We may divest or acquire businesses.. We may divest or acquire businesses to rationalize or expand our businesses and enhance our cash flows. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in any of such activities or as to the impact thereof on us financial or otherwise.. We have significant goodwill on our balance sheet that is sensitive to changes in the market, which could result in impairment charges.. Our annual impairment test of goodwill was performed in the fourth quarter. The estimated fair values of our reporting units were based on discounted cash flow models derived from internal earnings forecasts and assumptions. The assumptions and estimates used in these valuations incorporated the current and expected economic environment.   Our graphite electrode reporting unit's fair value exceeds its carrying value (see Note 5 \"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets\" to the Financial Statements). A further deterioration in the global economic environment or in any of the input assumptions in our calculation could adversely affect the fair value of our reporting units and result in further impairment of some or all of the goodwill on the balance sheet.  See Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies\" for further information regarding goodwill.. Our results of operations could deteriorate if our manufacturing operations were substantially disrupted for an extended period.. Our manufacturing operations are subject to disruption due to extreme weather conditions, floods, hurricanes and tropical storms and similar events, major industrial accidents, cybersecurity attacks, strikes and lockouts, adoption of new laws or regulations, changes in interpretations of existing laws or regulations or changes in governmental enforcement policies, civil disruption, riots, terrorist attacks, war, and other events. We cannot assure you that no such events will occur. If such an event occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on us.. We have non-dollar-denominated intercompany loans and have had in the past, and may in the future have, foreign currency financial instruments and interest rate swaps and caps. The related gains and losses have in the past been, and may in the future be, significant.. As part of our cash management, we have non-dollar denominated intercompany loans between our subsidiaries. These loans are deemed to be temporary and, as a result, remeasurement gains and losses on these loans are recorded as currency gains / losses in other income (expense), net, on the Consolidated Statements of Income.. Additionally, we have in the past entered into, and may in the future enter into, interest rate swaps and caps to attempt to manage interest rate expense. We have also in the past entered into, and may in the future enter into, foreign currency financial instruments to attempt to hedge global currency exposures. We may purchase or sell these financial instruments, and open and close hedges or other positions, at any time. Changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates have in the past resulted, and may in the future result, in significant gains or losses with respect thereto. These instruments are marked-to-market monthly and gains and losses thereon are recorded in Other Comprehensive Income in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.. 21. Table of Contents. There may be volatility in our results of operations between quarters.. Sales of our products fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to such factors as changes in economic conditions, changes in competitive conditions, scheduled plant shutdowns by customers, national vacation practices, changes in customer production schedules in response to seasonal changes in energy costs, weather conditions, strikes and work stoppages at customer plants and changes in customer order patterns including those in response to the announcement of price increases or price adjustments. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, volatility with respect to demand for and prices of our industrial material products, specifically graphite electrodes, both globally and regionally. We have also experienced volatility with respect to prices of raw materials and energy, and we expect to experience volatility in such prices in the future. Accordingly, results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for a full year.. The graphite and carbon industry is highly competitive. Our market share, net sales or net income could decline due to vigorous price and other competition.. Competition in the graphite and carbon products industry (other than, generally, with respect to new products) is based primarily on price, product differentiation and quality, delivery reliability, and customer service. Electrodes, in particular, are subject to rigorous price competition. In such a competitive market, changes in market conditions, including customer demand and technological development, could adversely affect our competitiveness, sales and/or profitability.. Competition with respect to new products is, and is expected to be, generally based primarily on product innovation, price, performance and cost effectiveness as well as customer service.. Competition could prevent implementation of price increases, require price reductions or require increased spending on research and development, marketing and sales that could adversely affect us.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SECURITIES. GTI is a holding company and all of its operations are conducted through its subsidiaries.. GTI is a holding company and derives substantially all of its cash flow from its subsidiaries.  Since GTI's operations are conducted through its subsidiaries, its cash flow and its consequent ability to service its indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, is dependent upon the earnings of its subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to GTI or upon the payments of funds by those subsidiaries to GTI or the repayment of intercompany indebtedness owed to GTI.  GTI's subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities with trade payables and other liabilities.  In addition to any statutory restrictions, the payment of dividends and the making of distributions and the making of loans and advances to GTI by its subsidiaries are subject to contractual restrictions provided in the Revolving Facility.  In addition, any right GTI may have to receive assets of any of its subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization (and the consequent right of the holders of the Senior Notes to participate in those assets) is effectively subordinated to the claims of such subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors.. The Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to all of the existing and future liabilities, including trade payables, of GTI's subsidiaries that are not, or do not become, guarantors of the Senior Notes.. The Senior Notes are not guaranteed by all of GTI's subsidiaries or any of GTI's foreign subsidiaries.  The Senior Notes are therefore structurally subordinated to all of the existing and future liabilities, including trade payables, of any non-guarantor subsidiary such that, in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of any such subsidiary, all of such subsidiary's creditors (including trade creditors and preferred stockholders, if any) would be entitled to payment in full out of such subsidiary's assets before the holders of the Senior Notes would be entitled to any payment.. As of December 31, 2016, GTI's subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the Senior Notes had total liabilities, including trade payables (but excluding intercompany liabilities), of approximately $137.5 million or 24% of our total liabilities, and total assets (excluding intercompany receivables) of approximately $719.7 million, or 65% of our total assets.  In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2016, our subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the Senior Notes generated approximately $350.9 million, or 80%, of our consolidated revenues and approximately $77.5 million of our consolidated operating loss of $92.1 million.. 22. Table of Contents. Under certain circumstances, subsidiary guarantees may be released.. Those subsidiaries that provide guarantees of the Senior Notes will be released from such guarantees upon the occurrence of certain events, including the following:. • the unconditional release or discharge of any guarantee or indebtedness that resulted in the creation of the guarantee of the Senior Notes by such subsidiary guarantor;. • the sale or other disposition, including by way of merger or consolidation or the sale of its capital stock following which such subsidiary guarantor is no longer a subsidiary of the Company; or. • GTI's exercise of its legal defeasance option or its covenant defeasance option as described in the indenture applicable to the Senior Notes.. If any such subsidiary guarantee is released, no holder of the Senior Notes will have a claim as a creditor against any such subsidiary and the indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables and preferred stock, if any, of such subsidiary will be effectively senior to the claim or any holders of the Senior Notes.. We may incur substantially more debt ranking senior or equal in right of payment with the Senior Notes, including secured debt, which would increase the risks described herein.. The agreements relating to our debt, including the Credit Agreement, limit but do not prohibit our ability to incur additional debt, and the amount of debt that we could incur could be substantial.  Accordingly, we could incur significant additional debt in the future, including additional debt under the Revolving Facility.  Much of this additional debt could constitute secured debt, to which the Senior Notes would be effectively subordinated to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such debt (the collateral securing the Revolving Facility consists of substantially all of the assets of GTI and its U.S. subsidiaries and certain assets of certain of GTI's foreign subsidiaries).  In addition, if we form or acquire any subsidiaries in the future, those subsidiaries also could incur debt, which debt would be effectively senior to the Senior Notes if those subsidiaries are not required to guarantee the Senior Notes.  If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. In addition, certain types of liabilities are not considered \"Indebtedness\" under the Credit Agreement, and the Credit Agreement does not impose any limitation on the amount of liabilities incurred by the subsidiaries, if any, that might be designated as \"unrestricted subsidiaries.\". The ability of holders of Senior Notes to require us to repurchase Senior Notes as a result of a disposition of \"substantially all\" of our assets may be uncertain.. The definition of change of control in the indenture governing the Senior Notes includes a phrase relating to the sale of \"all or substantially all\" of our assets. Although there is a limited body of case law interpreting the phrase \"substantially all,\" there is no precise established definition of such phrase under applicable law. Accordingly, the ability of a holder of Senior Notes to require us to repurchase its Senior Notes as a result of a sale or other disposition of less than all of our assets to another person or group may be uncertain.. If we default on our obligations to pay our other indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on the Senior Notes.. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under the Revolving Facility, that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness, could prevent us from paying principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Senior Notes and substantially decrease the market value of the Senior Notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including covenants in the Credit Agreement and the indenture that governs the Senior Notes), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness, including the Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the Senior Notes. In the event of such default:. • the holders of such indebtedness may be able to cause all of our available cash flow to be used to pay such indebtedness and, in any event, could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest;. 23. Table of Contents. • the lenders under the Revolving Facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets; and. • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Upon any such bankruptcy filing, we would be stayed from making any ongoing payments on the Senior Notes, and the holders of the Senior Notes would not be entitled to receive post-petition interest or applicable fees, costs or charges, or any \"adequate protection\" under Title 11 of the United States Code (the \"Bankruptcy Code\"). Furthermore, if a bankruptcy case were to be commenced under the Bankruptcy Code, we could be subject to claims, with respect to any payments made within 90 days prior to commencement of such a case, that we were insolvent at the time any such payments were made and that all or a portion of such payments, which could include repayments of amounts due under the Senior Notes, might be deemed to constitute a preference, under the Bankruptcy Code, and that such payments should be voided by the bankruptcy court and recovered from the recipients for the benefit of the entire bankruptcy estate. Also, in the event that we were to become a debtor in a bankruptcy case seeking reorganization or other relief under the Bankruptcy Code, a delay and/or substantial reduction in payment under the Senior Notes may otherwise occur. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under the Revolving Facility to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under the Credit Agreement and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under the Revolving Facility, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Federal and state statutes could allow a court to void the Senior Notes or any of our subsidiaries' guarantees of the Senior Notes under fraudulent transfer laws and require noteholders to return payments received by us or the subsidiary guarantors to us or the subsidiary guarantors or to fund for the benefit of their respective creditors or subordinate the Senior Notes or the guarantees to other claims of us or the subsidiary guarantors.. Under the federal bankruptcy laws and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, the Senior Notes or any of the guarantees thereof could be voided, or claims with respect to the Senior Notes or any of the guarantees could be subordinated to all other debts of GTI or the subsidiary guarantors. In addition, a bankruptcy court could void (i.e., cancel) any payments by GTI or the subsidiary guarantors pursuant to their guarantees and require those payments to be returned to GTI or the subsidiary guarantors or to a fund for the benefit of us or their respective creditors, or subordinate the Senior Notes or the guarantees to other claims of GTI or the subsidiary guarantors. The bankruptcy court might take these actions if it found, among other things, that GTI or the applicable subsidiary guarantor:. • received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the issuance of the Senior Notes or the incurrence of its guarantee; and. • was (or was rendered) insolvent by such issuance or such incurrence;. • was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which its assets constituted unreasonably small capital to carry on its business;. • intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, obligations beyond its ability to pay as the obligations matured; or. • was a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against it and, in either case, after final judgment, the judgment was unsatisfied.. A court would likely find that GTI or a subsidiary guarantor received less than fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for the Senior Notes or its guarantee to the extent that it did not receive direct or indirect substantial benefit from the issuance of the Senior Notes or the incurrence of the guarantee. A court could also void the Senior Notes or any guarantee if it found that GTI or the subsidiary guarantor issued the Senior Notes or incurred the guarantee with actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any present or future creditors. Although courts in different jurisdictions measure solvency differently, in general, an entity would be deemed insolvent if the sum of its debts, including contingent and unliquidated debts, exceeds the fair value of its assets or if the present fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount that would be required to pay the expected liability on its debts, including contingent and unliquidated debts, as they become due. We cannot predict what standard a court would apply in order to determine whether any of the Issuer or a subsidiary guarantor was insolvent as of the relevant date or whether, regardless of the method of valuation, a court would determine that the subsidiary guarantor was insolvent on that date, or whether a court would determine that the payments thereunder constituted fraudulent transfers or conveyances on other grounds. If the. 24. Table of Contents. issuance of the Senior Notes or the incurrence of the guarantee is deemed to be a fraudulent transfer, it could be voided altogether, or it could be subordinated to all other debts of GTI or the subsidiary guarantor, as applicable. In such case, any payment by GTI or the applicable subsidiary guarantor pursuant to the Senior Notes or its guarantee could be required to be returned to us or the applicable subsidiary guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or their respective creditors. Moreover, in such a case a court could subordinate the Senior Notes or guarantees to other claims of us or the subsidiary guarantor. If a guarantee is voided or held unenforceable for any other reason, holders of the Senior Notes would cease to have a claim against the subsidiary guarantor based on the guarantee and would be creditors only of GTI and any subsidiary guarantor whose guarantee was not similarly voided or otherwise held unenforceable.. Each guarantee will contain a provision intended to limit the subsidiary guarantor's liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without rendering the incurrence of obligations under its guarantee a fraudulent transfer. This provision may not be effective to protect the guarantees from being voided or subordinated under fraudulent transfer or conveyance law.. Forward Looking Statements. Forward Looking Statements and Risks. This Report contains forward looking statements. In addition, we or our representatives have made or may make forward looking statements on telephone or conference calls, by webcasts or emails, in person, in presentations or written materials, or otherwise. These include statements about such matters as future, targeted or expected (or the impact of current, future, expected or targeted): outlook for 2017 or beyond; operational and financial performance; growth prospects and rates; future or targeted profitability, cash flow, liquidity and capital resources, production rates, inventory levels and EBITDA; the impact of rationalization, product line change, cost and liquidity initiatives; changes in the operating rates or efficiency in our operations or our competitors' or customers' operations; product quality; diversification, new products, and product improvements and their impact on our business; the integration or impact of acquired businesses; divestitures, asset sales, investments and acquisitions that we may make in the future; possible debt or equity financing or refinancing (including factoring and supply chain financing) activities; the impact of customer bankruptcies; conditions and changes in the global financial and credit markets; possible changes in control of the Company and the impacts thereof; the impact of accounting changes; and currency exchange and interest rates and changes therein; .changes in production capacity in our operations and our competitors' or customers' operations and the utilization rates of that capacity; growth rates for, prices and sales of, and demand for, our products and our customers' products; costs of materials and production, including increases or decreases therein, our ability to pass on any such increases in our product prices or impose surcharges thereon, or customer or market demand to reduce our prices due to such decreases; changes in customer order patterns due to changes in economic conditions; productivity, business process and operational initiatives; the markets we serve and our position in those markets; financing and refinancing activities; investments and acquisitions and the performance of the businesses underlying such acquisitions and investments; employment and contributions of key personnel; employee relations and collective bargaining agreements covering many of our operations; tax rates and the effects of jurisdictional mix; capital expenditures and changes therein; nature and timing of restructuring and rationalization charges and payments; inventory and supply chain management; customer and supplier contractual  provisions and related opportunities and issues; competitive activities; strategic plans, initiatives and business projects; regional and global economic and industry market conditions, the timing and magnitude of changes in such conditions; interest rate management activities; currency rate management activities; deleveraging activities; rationalization, restructuring, realignment, strategic alliance, raw material and supply chain, technology development and collaboration, investment, acquisition, venture, operational, tax, financial and capital projects; legal proceedings, investigations, contingencies, and environmental compliance including any regulatory initiatives with respect to greenhouse gas emissions; consulting projects; and costs, working capital, revenues, business opportunities, debt levels, cash flows, cost savings and reductions, margins, earnings and growth.  The words \"will,\" \"may,\" \"plan,\" \"estimate,\" \"project,\" \"believe,\" \"anticipate,\" \"expect,\" \"intend,\" \"should,\" \"would,\" \"could,\" \"target,\" \"goal,\" \"continue to,\" \"positioned to\" and similar expressions, or the negatives thereof, identify some of these statements.. Our expectations and targets are not predictors of actual performance and historically our performance has deviated, often significantly, from our expectations and targets. Actual future events and circumstances (including future results and trends) could differ materially, positively or negatively, from those set forth in these statements due to various factors. These factors include:. 25. Table of Contents. • the possibility that additions to capacity for producing EAF steel, increases in overall EAF steel production capacity, and increases or other changes in steel production may not occur or may not occur at the rates that we anticipate or may not be as geographically disbursed as we anticipate;. • the possibility that increases or decreases in graphite electrode manufacturing capacity (including growth by producers in developing countries), competitive pressures (including changes in, and the mix, distribution, and pricing of, competitive products), reduction in specific consumption rates, increases or decreases in customer inventory levels, or other changes in the graphite electrode markets may occur, which may impact demand for, prices or unit and dollar volume sales of graphite electrodes and growth or profitability of our graphite electrodes business;. • the possible failure of changes in EAF steel production or graphite electrode production to result in stable or increased, or offset decreases in, graphite electrode demand, prices, or sales volume;. • the possibility that a determination that we have failed to comply with one or more export controls or trade sanctions to which we are subject with respect to products or technology exported from the United States or other jurisdictions could result in civil or criminal penalties, denial of export privileges and loss of revenues from certain customers;. • the possibility that, for all of our product lines, capital improvement and expansion in our customers' operations or increases in demand for their products may not occur or may not occur at the rates that we anticipate or the demand for their products may decline, which may affect their demand for the products we sell to them, which could affect our profitability and cash flows as well as the recoverability of our assets;. • the possibility that assumptions related to future expectations of financial performance materially change and impact our goodwill and long-lived asset carrying values;. • the possibility that our financial assumptions and expectations materially change as a result of government or state-owned government subsidies, incentives and trade barriers;. • the possibility that current economic disruptions or other conditions may result in idling or permanent closing of blast furnace capacity or delay of blast furnace capacity additions or replacements which may affect demand and prices for our refractory products;. • the possibility that continued global consolidation of the world's largest steel producers could impact our business or industry;. • the possibility that average graphite electrode revenue per metric ton in the future may be different than current spot or market prices due to changes in product mix, changes in currency exchange rates, changes in competitive market conditions or other factors;. • the possibility that price increases, adjustments or surcharges may not be realized or that price decreases may occur;. • the possibility that current challenging economic conditions and economic demand reduction may continue to impact our revenues and costs;. • the possibility that U.S., European, Chinese, or other governmental monetary or fiscal policy may adversely affect global economic activity and demand for our products;. • the possibility that potential future cuts in defense spending by the United States government as a part of efforts to reduce federal budget deficits could reduce demand for certain of our products and associated revenue;. • the possibility that decreases in prices for energy and raw materials may lead to downward pressure on prices for our products and delays in customer orders for our products as customers anticipate possible future lower prices;. • the possibility that customers may delay or cancel orders;. • the possibility that we may not be able to reduce production costs or delay or cancel raw material purchase commitments;. 26. Table of Contents. • the possibility that economic, political and other risks associated with operating globally, including national and international conflicts, terrorist acts, political and economic instability, civil unrest, community activism and natural or nuclear calamities might interfere with our supply chains, customers or activities in a particular location;. • the possibility that reductions in customers' production, increases in competitors' capacity, competitive pressures, or other changes in other markets we serve may occur, which may impact demand for, prices of or unit and dollar volume sales of, our other products, or growth or profitability of our other product lines, or change our position in such markets;. • the possibility that we will not be able to hire and retain key personnel, maintain appropriate relations with unions, associations and employees or to renew or extend our collective bargaining or similar agreements on reasonable terms as they expire or do so without a work stoppage or strike;. • the possibility that an adverse determination in litigation pending in Brazil involving disputes related to the proper interpretation of certain collectively bargained wage increase provisions applicable to both us and other employers in the Bahia region might result in the filing of claims against our Brazilian subsidiary;. • the possibility that a Brazilian graphite electrode antitrust investigation could result in material fines or penalties;. • the possibility that we will fail to retain or develop new customers or applications for our Engineered Solutions products or such new product applications will not be adopted by the market place;. • the possibility that our manufacturing capabilities may not be sufficient or that we may experience delays in expanding or fail to expand our manufacturing capacity to meet demand for existing, new or improved products;. • the possibility that we may propose acquisitions or divestitures in the future, that we may not complete the acquisitions or divestitures, and that investments and acquisitions that we may make in the future may not be successfully integrated into our business or provide the performance or returns expected or that divestitures may not generate the proceeds anticipated;. • the possibility that challenging conditions or changes in the capital markets will limit our ability to undertake refinancing activities or obtain financing for growth and other initiatives, on acceptable terms or at all;. • the possibility that conditions or changes in the global equity markets may have a material impact on our future pension funding obligations and liabilities on our balance sheet;. • the possibility that the amount or timing of our anticipated capital expenditures may be limited by our financial resources or financing arrangements or that our ability to complete capital projects may not occur timely enough to adapt to changes in market conditions or changes in regulatory requirements;. • the possibility that the actual outcome of uncertainties associated with assumptions and estimates using judgment when applying critical accounting policies and preparing financial statements may have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position;. • the possibility that we may be unable to protect our intellectual property or may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, resulting in damages, limitations on our ability to produce or sell products or limitations on our ability to prevent others from using that intellectual property to produce or sell products;. • the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances or changing interpretations and enforcement agendas relating to legal proceedings or compliance programs;. • the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances or changing interpretations and enforcement agendas relating to health, safety or environmental compliance or remediation obligations or liabilities to third parties or relating to labor relations;. • the possibility that new or expanded regulatory initiatives with respect to greenhouse gas emissions could  increase the capital intensive nature of our business and add to our costs of production;. • the possibility that our provision for income taxes and effective income tax rate or cash tax rate may fluctuate significantly due to (i) changes in applicable tax rates or laws, (ii) changes in the sources of our income, (iii) changes in tax planning, (iv) new or changing interpretations of applicable regulations, (v) changes in profitability,. 27. Table of Contents. (vi) changes in our estimate of our future ability to use foreign tax credits or other tax attributes, and (vii) other factors;. • the possibility of changes in interest or currency exchange rates or in inflation or deflation;. • the possibility that our outlook could be significantly impacted by, among other things, developments in North Africa, the Middle East, North Korea, and other areas of concern, the occurrence of further terrorist acts and developments resulting from the war on terrorism;. • the possibility that interruption in our major raw material, energy or utility supplies due to, among other things, natural or nuclear disasters, process interruptions, actions by producers and capacity limitations, may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our products or result in higher costs;. • the possibility that the magnitude of changes in the cost of major raw materials, energy or utility suppliers by reason of shortages, changes in market pricing, pricing terms in applicable supply contracts, or other events may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our products or result in higher costs;. • the possibility of interruptions in production at our facilities due to, among other things, critical equipment failure, which may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our products or result in higher costs;. • the possibility that we may not achieve the earnings or other financial or operational metrics that we provide as guidance from time to time;. • the possibility that the anticipated benefits from rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives may be delayed or may not occur, may vary in cost or may result in unanticipated disruptions;. • the possibility of security breaches affecting our information technology systems;. • the possibility that our disclosure or internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or personnel or that those controls may not operate effectively and may not prevent or detect misstatements or errors;. • the possibility that severe economic conditions may adversely affect our business, liquidity or capital resources;. • the possibility that delays may occur in the financial statement closing process;. • the possibility of changes in performance that may affect financial covenant compliance or funds available for borrowing; and. • other risks and uncertainties, including those described elsewhere in this Report or our other SEC filings, as well as future decisions by us.. Occurrence of any of the events or circumstance described above could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or the market price of our common stock.. No assurance can be given that any future transaction about which forward looking statements may be made will be completed or as to the timing or terms of any such transaction.. All subsequent written and oral forward looking statements by or attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these factors. Except as otherwise required to be disclosed in periodic reports required to be filed by public companies with the SEC pursuant to the SEC's rules, we have no duty to update these statements."
