[1] "Item 1A.       Risk Factors. Our business and operations are subject to numerous risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  If any of the events described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K occur, our business and results of operations could be harmed.  Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or which we currently deem to be immaterial, could also harm our business and results of operations.. Risks related to our business. The markets we serve include the petroleum refining and petrochemical industries. These industries are both highly cyclical in nature and dependent on the prices of crude oil and natural gas as well as on the differential between the two prices.  As a result, volatility in the prices of oil and natural gas may negatively impact our operating results.. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from the sale of our products to companies in the chemical, petrochemical, petroleum refining and power generating industries, or to firms that design and construct facilities for these industries.  These industries are highly cyclical and have historically experienced severe downturns.  We have been in such a downturn, which was sudden when it started and has begun to show signs of an initial recovery.  The prices of crude oil and natural gas have historically been very volatile, as evidenced by the extreme volatility in oil prices over the past few years.  This volatility caused a steep decline in orders from the energy markets during the three-year period ending September 2017.  The increased supply and reduction in price of natural gas in North America has also caused a significant change in the global energy markets in the past few years.  During times of significant volatility in the market for crude oil or natural gas, our customers often refrain from placing orders until the market stabilizes and future demand projections are clearer. If our customers refrain from placing orders with us, our revenue would decline and there could be a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.  Despite the near-term recent volatility, we believe that over the long-term, demand for our products will expand in the petrochemical, petroleum refining and power generating industries, however, the current volatility in oil prices confirms that cyclical downturns will occur periodically.  A sustained deterioration in any of the industries we serve would materially harm our business and operating results because our customers would not likely have the resources necessary to purchase our products, nor would they likely have the need to build additional facilities or improve existing facilities.  As we have seen in the past few years, a cyclical downturn can occur suddenly and result in extremely different financial performance sequentially from quarter to quarter or on an annual comparative basis due to an inability to rapidly adjust costs.. The relative costs of oil, natural gas, nuclear power, hydropower and numerous forms of alternative energy production may have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results.. Global and regional energy supply comes from many sources, including oil, natural gas, coal, hydro, nuclear, solar, wind, geothermal and biomass, among others.  A cost or supply shift among these sources could negatively impact our business opportunities going forward and the profitability of those opportunities.  A demand shift, where technological advances favor the utilization of one or a few sources of energy may also impact the demand for our products.  If demand shifts in a manner that increases energy utilization outside of our traditional customer base or expertise, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.  In addition, governmental policy can affect the relative importance of various forms of energy sources.  For example, non-fossil based sources may require and often receive government tax incentives to foster investment.  If these incentives become more prominent, our business and results of operations could suffer.. Our business is highly competitive.  If we are unable to successfully implement our business strategy and compete against entities with greater resources than us or against competitors who have a relative cost advantage, we risk losing market share to current and future competitors.. We encounter intense competition in all of our markets.  Some of our present and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing, technical or manufacturing resources.  Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new technologies or processes and changes in customer demands and they may be able to devote greater resources towards the development, promotion and sale of their products.  Certain of our competitors may also have a cost advantage compared to us due to their geography or changes in relative currency values and may compete against us based on price.  This may affect our ability to secure new business and maintain our level of profitability.  In addition, our current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that increase their ability to address the needs of our customers.  Moreover, customer buying patterns can change if customers become more price sensitive and accepting of. 8. lower cost suppliers.  If we cannot compete successfully against current or future competitors, our business will be materially adversely affected.. A change in our end use customers, our markets, or a change in the engineering procurement and construction companies serving our markets could harm our business and negatively impact our financial results.. Although we have long-term relationships with many of our end use customers and with many engineering, procurement and construction companies, the project management requirements, pricing levels and costs to support each customer and customer type are often different.  Our customers have historically focused on the quality of the engineering and product solutions which we have provided to them.  As our markets continue to grow, and new market opportunities expand, we could see a shift in pricing as a result of facing competitors with lower production costs, which may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial results.  In certain developing geographies, the relative importance of cost versus quality may lead to decisions which look at short-term costs instead of total long-term cost of operations.. A change in the structure of our markets; the relationships between engineering and procurement companies, original equipment suppliers, others in the supply chain and any of their relationships with the end users could harm our business and negatively impact our financial results.. There are strong and long-standing relationships throughout the supply chain between the many parties involved in serving the end user of our products.  A change in the landscape between engineering and procurement companies, original equipment suppliers, others in the supply chain and/or with the end users could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.  These changes might occur through acquisitions or other business partnership and could have a material impact on our business and negatively impact our financial results.. The loss of, or significant reduction or delay in, purchases by our largest customers could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our results of operations.. A small number of customers has accounted for a substantial portion of our historical net sales. For example, sales to our top ten customers, who can vary each year, accounted for 41%, 38% and 30% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2018, fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, respectively. We expect that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a substantial portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. The loss of any of our major customers, a decrease or delay in orders or anticipated spending by such customers or a delay in the production of existing orders could materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. We may experience customer concentration risk related to strategic growth for U.S. Navy projects. We believe our strategy to increase the penetration of U.S. Navy related opportunities will lead to U.S. Navy related projects consistently being greater than 10% of our total revenue.  While these projects are spread across multiple contractors for the U.S. Navy, the end customer for these projects is the same.  This concentration of business could add additional risk to Graham should there be a disruption, short or long term, in the funding for these projects or our participation in the U.S. Navy Nuclear Propulsion program.. A large percentage of our sales occur outside of the U.S. As a result, we are subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations.. For fiscal 2018, 33% of our revenue was from customers located outside of the U.S.  Moreover, we maintain a subsidiary and a sales office in China.  We believe that revenue from the sale of our products outside the U.S. will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future.  We intend to continue to expand our international operations to the extent that suitable opportunities become available.  Our foreign operations and sales could be adversely affected as a result of:. •  nationalization of private enterprises and assets;. •  political or economic instability in certain countries and regions, such as the ongoing instability throughout the Middle East and/or portions of the former Soviet Union;. •  political relationships between the U.S. and certain countries and regions;. •  differences in foreign laws, including difficulties in protecting intellectual property and uncertainty in enforcement of contract rights;. 9. •  the possibility that foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that could directly or indirectly harm our business and growth strategy;. •  credit risks;. •  currency fluctuations;. •  tariff and tax increases;. •  export and import restrictions and restrictive regulations of foreign governments;. •  shipping products during times of crisis or wars;. •  our failure to comply with U.S. laws regarding doing business in foreign jurisdictions, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; or. •  other factors inherent in maintaining foreign operations.. The impact of potential changes in customs and trade policies in the United States and the potential corresponding actions by other countries in which we do business could adversely affect our financial performance.. The U.S. government has made proposals that are intended to address trade imbalances, which include encouraging increased production in the United States. These proposals could result in increased customs duties and the renegotiation of some U.S. trade agreements. We engage in sales outside of the United States. If custom duties are implemented or increased, it also may cause the trading partners of the United States to take actions with respect to U.S. imports in their respective countries. Any potential changes in trade policies in the United States and the potential corresponding actions by other countries in which we do business could adversely affect our financial performance.. The effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our business have not yet been fully analyzed and could have an adverse affect on our results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, U.S. President Donald Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act. The Tax Act made broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited to reducing the Federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, requiring a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and creating new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. The one-time transition tax is based on the total post-1986 earnings and profits of our foreign subsidiary that was previously deferred from U.S. income taxes. We continue to analyze the impact the Tax Act may have on our business including the impact of the total post-1986 foreign earnings and profits for our foreign subsidiary. Notwithstanding the reduction in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, guidance is still forthcoming, and no assurance can be made that future guidance will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results.. Global demand growth could be led by emerging markets, which could result in lower profit margins and increased competition.. The increase in global demand could be led by emerging markets.  If this is the case, we may face increased competition from lower cost suppliers, which in turn could lead to lower profit margins on our products. Customers in emerging markets may also place less emphasis on our high quality and brand name than do customers in the U.S. and certain other industrialized countries where we compete. If we are forced to compete for business with customers that place less emphasis on quality and brand recognition than our current customers, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Climate change and greenhouse gas regulations may affect our customers' investment decisions.. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  These restrictions may affect our customers' abilities and willingness to invest in new facilities or to re-invest in current operations.  These requirements could impact the cost of our customers' products, lengthen project implementation times, and reduce demand for hydrocarbons, as well as shift hydrocarbon demand toward lower-carbon sources.  Any of the foregoing could adversely impact the demand for our products, which in turn could have an adverse affect on our business and results of operations.. 10. The operations of our Chinese subsidiary may be adversely affected by China's evolving economic, political and social conditions.. We conduct our business in China primarily through our wholly-owned Chinese subsidiary.  The results of operations and future prospects of our Chinese subsidiary may be adversely affected by, among other things, changes in China's political, economic and social conditions, changes in the relationship between China and its western trade partners, changes in policies of the Chinese government, changes in laws and regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, changes in foreign exchange regulations, measures that may be introduced to control inflation, such as interest rate increases, and changes in the rates or methods of taxation.  In addition, changes in demand could result from increased competition from local Chinese manufacturers who have cost advantages or who may be preferred suppliers for Chinese end users.  Also, Chinese commercial laws, regulations and interpretations applicable to non-Chinese owned market participants, such as us, are continually changing. These laws, regulations and interpretations could impose restrictions on our ownership or operations of our interests in China and have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.. Intellectual property rights are difficult to enforce in China, which could harm our business.. Chinese commercial law is relatively undeveloped compared with the commercial law in many of our other major markets and limited protection of intellectual property is available in China as a practical matter.  Although we take precautions in the operations of our Chinese subsidiary to protect our intellectual property, any local design or manufacture of products that we undertake in China could subject us to an increased risk that unauthorized parties will be able to copy or otherwise obtain or use our intellectual property, which could harm our business.  We may also have limited legal recourse in the event we encounter patent or trademark infringers, which could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system may adversely affect the operations of our Chinese subsidiary.. Our Chinese subsidiary is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China.  There are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of laws, rules and policies in China.  The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions have limited precedential value.  Because many laws and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform.  Moreover, the relative inexperience of China's judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation, and the interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political agendas.  Finally, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic.  For the preceding reasons, it may be difficult for us to obtain timely or equitable enforcement of laws ostensibly designed to protect companies like ours, which could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.. Changes in U.S. and foreign energy policy regulations could adversely affect our business.. Energy policy in the U.S. and in the other countries where we sell our products is evolving rapidly and we anticipate that energy policy will continue to be an important legislative priority in the jurisdictions where we sell our products. It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the changes in energy policy that could occur, as they may be related to changes in political administration, public policy or other factors. The elimination of, or a change in, any of the current rules and regulations in any of our markets could create a regulatory environment that makes our end users less likely to purchase our products, which could have a material adverse affect on our business.  Government subsidies or taxes, which favor or disfavor certain energy sources compared with others, could have a material adverse affect on our business and operating results.. Efforts to reduce large U.S. federal budget deficits could result in government cutbacks or shifts in focus in defense spending or in reduced incentives to pursue alternative energy projects, resulting in reduced demand for our products, which could harm our business and results of operations.. Our business strategy calls for us to continue to pursue defense-related projects as well as projects for end users in the alternative energy markets in the U.S.  In recent years, the U.S. federal government has incurred large budget deficits. In the event that U.S. federal government defense spending is reduced or alternative energy related incentives are reduced or eliminated in an effort to reduce federal budget deficits, projects related to defense or alternative energy may become less plentiful. The impact of such reductions could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations, as well as our growth opportunities.. U.S. Navy orders are subject to annual government funding.  A disruption in funding could adversely impact our business.. One of our growth strategies is to increase our penetration of U.S. Navy-related opportunities.  Projects for the U.S. Navy and its contractors generally have a much longer order-to-shipment time period than our commercial orders.  The time between the awarding of an order to complete shipment can take three to seven years.  Annual government funding is required to continue the production of this equipment.  Disruption of government funding, short or long term, could impact the ability for us to continue our. 11. production activity on these orders.  Since this business is expected to increase as a percentage of our overall business, such a disruption, should it occur, could adversely impact the sales and profitability of our business.. Changes in the competitive environment for U.S. Navy procurement could adversely impact our ability to grow this portion of our business.. Over the past few years, we have expanded our business and the opportunities where we bid related to U.S. Navy projects.  This has increased our market share and caused an adverse share position for some of our competitors for these products.  Competitor response to our market penetration is possible.  Our customers may also raise concerns about their supplier concentration issues and the risk exposure related to this concentration.  As the U.S. Navy is looking to expand its fleet, there is also a risk that their facilities, their supply chain or our supply chain for raw materials, may not be able to support this expansion.  This could adversely impact our ability to grow this portion of our business.. Contract liabilities for large U.S. Navy contracts may be beyond our normal insurance coverage and a claim could have an adverse impact on our financial results.. We are diligent at managing ongoing risks related to projects and the requirements of our customers.  Our history at managing risk provides significant evidence that our exposure and risk is minimal.  In addition, we secure business insurance coverage to minimize the impact of a major failure or liability related to our customers.  Due to certain U.S. government procurement policies, we may take on the risk of a liability for large U.S. Navy projects in excess of our insurance coverage and at a level which is higher than our commercial projects.  A claim related to one of these projects could have an adverse impact on our financial results.. New technology used by the ships for the U.S. Navy may delay projects and may impact our ability to grow this portion of our business.. Certain U.S. Navy vessels are implementing new technologies, unrelated to any of the equipment that we provide.  If there is a complication or delay to any ship caused by this new technology, it may delay the procurement and fabrication of future vessels, which could have a negative impact on our business.. Political and regulatory developments could continue to make the utilization and growth of nuclear power as an energy source less desirable in the geographic markets we serve, which would harm our business and results of operations.. A global event, such as a major earthquake or terrorist activity, may impact the desirability of operating existing nuclear power plants or building new or replacement nuclear plants facilities. Should public opinion or political pressure result in the continued closing of existing nuclear facilities or otherwise result in the continued erosion of the nuclear power industry, especially within the U.S., the business, results of operations and growth prospects in the nuclear market could be materially adversely impacted.. In addition, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or NRC, performs operational and safety reviews of nuclear facilities in the U.S.  It is possible that the NRC could take actions or impose regulations that adversely affect the demand for our products and services, or otherwise delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear power generation facilities, even temporarily. If any such event were to occur, our business or operations could be materially adversely impacted.. Near-term income statement impact from competitive contracts could adversely affect our operating results.. During weaker market periods, we may choose to be more aggressive in pricing certain competitive projects to protect or gain market share or to increase the utilization of our facilities.  In these situations, it is possible that an incrementally profitable order, while increasing contribution, may be unprofitable from an accounting perspective when including fixed manufacturing costs.  In these situations, we are required to recognize the financial loss at the time of order acceptance, or as soon as our cost estimates are updated, whichever occurs first.  It is possible we may accumulate losses either on a large project or more than one project such that, in a short time period, for example, a reporting quarter, these losses may have a meaningful impact on the earnings of the period.. Our operating results could be adversely affected by customer contract cancellations and delays.. The value of our backlog as of March 31, 2018 was $117,946.  Our backlog can be significantly affected by the timing of large orders.  The amount of our backlog at March 31, 2018 is not necessarily indicative of future backlog levels or the rate at which our backlog will be recognized as sales. Although historically the amount of modifications and terminations of our orders has not been material compared with our total contract volume, customers can, and sometimes do, terminate or modify their orders.  This generally occurs more often in times of end market or capital market turmoil.  As evidence of this, we had orders totaling $24,361 cancelled during the downturn between fiscal 2015 through fiscal 2017, but have had no cancellations in fiscal 2018.  We cannot predict whether cancellations will occur or accelerate in the future. Although certain of our contracts in backlog may contain provisions allowing for us to assess cancellation charges to our customers to compensate us for costs incurred on cancelled contracts,. 12. cancellations of purchase orders or modifications made to existing contracts could substantially and materially reduce our backlog and, consequently, our future sales and results of operations. Moreover, delay of contract execution by our customers can result in volatility in our operating results.. Our current backlog contains a number of large orders from the U.S. Navy.  In addition, we are continuing to pursue business in these end markets which offer large multi-year projects which have an added risk profile beyond that of our historic customer base.  A delay, long-term extension or cancellation of any of these projects could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.. An extended downturn could adversely impact the financial stability of our customers and increase the risk of uncollectable accounts receivables.. Our customers participate in cyclical markets, such as petroleum refining, petrochemical and nuclear energy.  The financial strength of our customers can be impacted by a severe or lengthy downturn in these markets.  This could lead to additional risk in our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivables.  We attempt to mitigate this risk with the utilization of progress payments for many projects, but certain industries, end markets and geographies are not as willing to make progress payments.  Certain projects require a small portion of the total payments to be held until the customer's facility is fully operational, which can be in excess of one year beyond our delivery of equipment to them.  This additional time may add risk to our ability to collect on the outstanding accounts receivables.. Our exposure to fixed-price contracts and the timely completion of such contracts could negatively impact our results of operations.. A substantial portion of our sales is derived from fixed-price contracts, which may involve long-term fixed price commitments by us to our customers. While we believe our contract management processes are strong, we nevertheless could experience difficulties in executing large contracts, including but not limited to, estimating errors, cost overruns, supplier failures and customer disputes. To the extent that any of our fixed-price contracts are delayed, our subcontractors fail to perform, contract counterparties successfully assert claims against us, the original cost estimates in these or other contracts prove to be inaccurate or the contracts do not permit us to pass increased costs on to our customers, our profitability may decrease or losses may be incurred which, in turn, could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.  For our U.S. Navy projects, these fixed priced contracts have order to shipment periods which can exceed five years.  This additional time-based risk, which we believe is manageable, nevertheless increases the likelihood of cost fluctuation, which could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operation.. Given our size and specialization of our business, if we lose any member of our management team and we experience difficulty in finding a qualified replacement, our business could be harmed.. Competition for qualified management and key technical and sales personnel in our industry is intense.  Moreover, our technology is highly specialized, and it may be difficult to replace the loss of any of our key technical and sales personnel. Many of the companies with which we compete for management and key technical and sales personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do or are located in geographic areas which may be considered by some to be more desirable places to live.  If we are not able to retain any of our key management, technical or sales personnel, it could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.. During certain high demand periods, there can be a shortage of skilled production workers, especially those with high-end welding capabilities.  We could experience difficulty hiring or replacing those individuals, which could adversely affect our business.. Our fabrication processes require highly skilled production workers, especially welders.  Welding has not been an educational field that has been popular over the past few decades as manufacturing has moved overseas.  While we have an in-house weld training program, if we are unable to retain, hire or train an adequate number of individuals with high-end welding capability, this could adversely impact our ability to achieve our financial objectives.  In addition, if demand for highly skilled production workers were to significantly outstrip supply, wages for these skilled workers could dramatically increase in our and related industries and that could affect our financial performance.. Our acquisition strategy may not be successful or may increase business risk.. The success of our acquisition strategy will depend, in part, on our ability to identify suitable companies or businesses to purchase and then successfully negotiate and close acquisition transactions.  In addition, our success depends in part on our ability to integrate acquisitions and realize the anticipated benefits from combining the acquisition with our historical business, operations and management.  We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to complete any acquisitions and then successfully integrate the. 13. business and operations of those acquisitions without encountering difficulties, including unanticipated costs, issues or liabilities, difficulty in retaining customers and supplier or other relationships, failure to retain key employees, diversion of our management's attention, failure to integrate information and accounting systems or establish and maintain proper internal control over financial reporting.  Moreover, as part of the integration process, we must incorporate an acquisition's existing business culture and compensation structure with our existing business.  We also need to utilize key personnel who may be distracted from the core business.  If we are not able to efficiently integrate an acquisition's business and operations into our organization in a timely and efficient manner, or at all, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized, or it may take longer to realize these benefits than we currently expect, either of which could have a material adverse affect on our business or results of operations.. Should a portion of our current intangible assets or intangible assets that we might acquire through future M&A activity be impaired, results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our balance sheet currently includes intangible assets, including goodwill and other separately identifiable intangible assets, primarily as a result of our acquisition of Energy Steel which make up 4% of the assets of the company.  The value of our intangible assets may increase further, in the future, if we complete additional acquisitions as part of our overall business strategy. We are required to review our intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if certain indicators of permanent impairment arise.  Factors that could indicate that our intangible assets are impaired could include, among other things, a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, lower than projected operating results and cash flows, and slower than expected growth rates in our markets. If a portion of our intangible assets becomes impaired as a result of such a review, the impaired portion of such assets would have to be written-off during that period.  Such a write-off could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.. If we become subject to product liability, warranty or other claims, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The manufacture and sale of our products exposes us to potential product liability claims, including those that may arise from failure to meet product specifications, misuse or malfunction of our products, design flaws in our products, or use of our products with systems not manufactured or sold by us.  For example, our equipment is installed in facilities that operate dangerous processes and the misapplication, improper installation or failure of our equipment may result in exposure to potentially hazardous substances, personal injury or property damage.. Provisions contained in our contracts with customers that attempt to limit our damages may not be enforceable or may fail to protect us from liability for damages and we may not negotiate such contractual limitations of liability in certain circumstances.  Our insurance may not cover all liabilities and our historical experience may not reflect liabilities we may face in the future.  Our risk of liability may increase as we manufacture more complex or larger projects.  We also may not be able to continue to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, or at all.  Any material liability not covered by provisions in our contracts or by insurance could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition.. Furthermore, if a customer suffers damage as a result of an event related to one of our products, even if we are not at fault, they may reduce their business with us. We may also incur significant warranty claims, which are not covered by insurance. In the event a customer ceases doing business with us as a result of a product malfunction or defect, perceived or actual, or if we incur significant warranty costs in the future, there could be a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.. If third parties infringe upon our intellectual property or if we were to infringe upon the intellectual property of third parties, we may expend significant resources enforcing or defending our rights or suffer competitive injury.. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology.  We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and confidentiality provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights.  If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer.  We may also be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights.  Similarly, if we were found to have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of others, our competitive position could suffer.  Furthermore, other companies may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies, duplicate or reverse engineer our technologies or design around our proprietary technologies. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.. In some instances, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products infringe upon their intellectual property rights.  Any litigation or claims brought by or against us, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs to us and divert the attention of our management, which could materially harm our business and results of operations.  In addition, any intellectual property litigation or claims against us could result in the loss or compromise of our intellectual property and proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or selling certain. 14. products or require us to redesign certain products, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.. We are subject to foreign currency fluctuations which may adversely affect our operating results.. We are exposed to the risk of currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the countries in which we sell our products to the extent that such sales are not based on U.S. dollars.  Currency movements can affect sales in several ways, the foremost being our ability to compete for orders against foreign competitors that base their prices on relatively weaker currencies.  Strength of the U.S. dollar compared with the Euro or Asian currencies may put us in a less competitive position.  Business lost due to competition for orders against competitors using a relatively weaker currency cannot be quantified.  In addition, cash can be adversely impacted by the conversion of sales made by us in a foreign currency to U.S. dollars.  While we may enter into currency exchange rate hedges from time to time to mitigate these types of fluctuations, we cannot remove all fluctuations or hedge all exposures and our earnings are impacted by changes in currency exchange rates.  In addition, if the counter-parties to such exchange contracts do not fulfill their obligations to deliver the contractual foreign currencies, we could be at risk for fluctuations, if any, required to settle the obligation.  Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  At March 31, 2018, we held no forward foreign currency exchange contracts.. Security threats and other sophisticated computer intrusions could harm our information systems, which in turn could harm our business and financial results.. We utilize information systems and computer technology throughout our business.  We store sensitive data, proprietary information and perform engineering designs and calculations on these systems.  Threats to these systems, and the laws and regulations governing security of data, including personal data, on information systems and otherwise held by companies is evolving and adding layers of complexity in the form of new requirements and increasing costs of attempting to protect information systems and data and complying with new cybersecurity regulations. Information systems are subject to numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats and sophisticated computer crimes, which pose a risk to the stability and security of our information systems, computer technology, and business.  Global cybersecurity threats can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information systems and computer technology to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats. The techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time and we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures. A failure or breach in security could expose our company as well as our customers and suppliers to risks of misuse of information, compromising confidential information and technology, destruction of data, production disruptions and other business risks which could damage our reputation, competitive position and financial results of our operations.  In addition, defending ourselves against these threats may increase costs or slow operational efficiencies of our business.  If any of the foregoing were to occur, it could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.. We face potential liability from asbestos exposure and similar claims that could result in substantial costs to us as well as divert attention of our management, which could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.. We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits alleging illnesses from exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing products and seeking unspecified compensatory and punitive damages. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of these lawsuits or whether we could become subject to any similar, related or additional lawsuits in the future.  In addition, because some of our products are used in systems that handle toxic or hazardous substances, any failure or alleged failure of our products in the future could result in litigation against us.  For example, a claim could be made under various regulations for the adverse consequences of environmental contamination. Any litigation brought against us, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs to us as well as divert the attention of our management, which could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.. Many of our large international customers are nationalized or state-owned businesses.  Any failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could adversely impact our competitive position and subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences, which could harm our business and results of operations.. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  Many foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions.  Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in certain of the jurisdictions in which we may operate or sell our products.  While we strictly prohibit our employees and agents from engaging in such conduct and have established procedures, controls and training to prevent such conduct from occurring, it is possible that our employees or agents will engage in such conduct and that we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are alleged or are found to have engaged in such practices, we could incur significant costs and suffer severe penalties or other consequences that may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impair or delay stockholders' ability to change our management and could discourage takeover transactions that some stockholders might consider to be in their best interests.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede attempts by our stockholders to remove or replace our management and could discourage others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction, including a potential transaction at a premium over the market price of our common stock, that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests.  Such provisions include:. •  We could issue shares of preferred stock with terms adverse to our common stock.  Under our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of such shares without obtaining any further approval from the holders of our common stock.  We could issue shares of preferred stock with voting and conversion rights that adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock, or that have the affect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company.. •  Only a minority of our directors may be elected in a given year.  Our bylaws provide for a classified Board of Directors, with only approximately one-third of our Board elected each year.  This provision makes it more difficult to effect a change of control because at least two annual stockholder meetings are necessary to replace a majority of our directors.. •  Our bylaws contain advance notice requirements.  Our bylaws also provide that any stockholder who wishes to bring business before an annual meeting of our stockholders or to nominate candidates for election as directors at an annual meeting of our stockholders must deliver advance notice of their proposals to us before the meeting.  Such advance notice provisions may have the effect of making it more difficult to introduce business at stockholder meetings or nominate candidates for election as director.. •  Our certificate of incorporation requires supermajority voting to approve a change of control transaction.  Seventy-five percent of our outstanding shares entitled to vote are required to approve any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets and similar transactions if the other party to such transaction owns 5% or more of our shares entitled to vote.  In addition, a majority of the shares entitled to vote not owned by such 5% or greater stockholder are also required to approve any such transaction.. •  Amendments to our certificate of incorporation require supermajority voting.  Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that make its amendment require the affirmative vote of both 75% of our outstanding shares entitled to vote and a majority of the shares entitled to vote not owned by any person who may hold 50% or more of our shares unless the proposed amendment was previously recommended to our stockholders by an affirmative vote of 75% of our Board.  This provision makes it more difficult to implement a change to our certificate of incorporation that stockholders might otherwise consider to be in their best interests without approval of our Board.. •  Amendments to our bylaws require supermajority voting.  Although our Board of Directors is permitted to amend our bylaws at any time, our stockholders may only amend our bylaws upon the affirmative vote of both 75% of our outstanding shares entitled to vote and a majority of the shares entitled to vote not owned by any person who owns 50% or more of our shares.  This provision makes it more difficult for our stockholders to implement a change they may consider to be in their best interests without approval of our Board."
