[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, which could cause our stock price to decline.. Our quarterly and annual results of operations may fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow our Class A common stock, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results of operations might result from a number of factors, including, but not limited to:. • the timing and volume of purchases, use and reloads of our prepaid cards and other products and services;. • the timing and volume of tax refunds processed by us, including the impact of any general delays in tax refund disbursements from the U.S. and State Treasuries;. • the timing and success of new product or service introductions by us or our competitors;. • seasonality in the purchase or use of our products and services;. • changes in the level of interchange rates that can be charged;. • fluctuations in customer retention rates;. • changes in the mix of products and services that we sell;. • changes in the mix of retail distributors through which we sell our products and services;. • the timing of commencement, renegotiation or termination of relationships with significant retail distributors and network acceptance members;. • the timing of commencement of new product development and initiatives, the timing of costs of existing product roll-outs to new retail distributors and the length of time we must invest in those new products, channels or retail distributors before they generate material operating revenues;. • our ability to effectively sell our products through online and direct mail marketing initiatives;. • changes in our or our competitors' pricing policies or sales terms;. • significant changes in our risk policies and controls;. • the amount and timing of costs related to fraud losses;. • the amount and timing of commencement and termination of major advertising campaigns, including sponsorships;. • the amount and timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of complementary businesses;. • the amount and timing of costs of any major litigation to which we are a party;. • disruptions in the performance of our products and services, including interruptions in the services we provide to other businesses, and the associated financial impact thereof;. • the amount and timing of capital expenditures and operating costs related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure;. • accounting charges related to impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets;. • our ability to control costs, including third-party service provider costs and sales and marketing expenses in an increasingly competitive market;. • volatility in the trading price of our Class A common stock, which may lead to higher or lower stock-based compensation expenses; and. • changes in the political or regulatory environment affecting the banking or electronic payments industries generally or the industries for prepaid financial services and tax refund processing specifically.. 11. Table of Contents. The loss of operating revenues from Walmart or any of our largest retail distributors would adversely affect our business.. Most of our operating revenues are derived from prepaid financial services sold at our four largest retail distributors. As a percentage of total operating revenues, operating revenues derived from products and services sold at the store locations of Walmart was approximately 40% for the year ended December 31, 2017. We expect that Walmart will continue to have a significant impact on our operating revenues in future periods, particularly in our Account Services segment. It would be difficult to replace Walmart and the operating revenues derived from products and services sold at their stores. Accordingly, the loss of Walmart would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, any publicity associated with the loss of any of our large retail distributors could harm our reputation, making it more difficult to attract and retain consumers and other retail distributors, and could lessen our negotiating power with our remaining and prospective retail distributors.. The term of our Walmart Money Card agreement (which governs the MoneyCard program) expires on May 1, 2020, unless renewed under its automatic renewal provision which provide for a two-year extension. Our contracts with our three other largest retail distributors have terms that expire at various dates through 2021. Our contracts with Walmart and our three other largest retail distributors can in limited circumstances, such as our material breach or insolvency or, in the case of Walmart, our failure to meet agreed-upon service levels, certain changes in control, and our inability or unwillingness to agree to requested pricing changes, be terminated by these retail distributors on relatively short notice. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue our relationships with our largest retail distributors on the same or more favorable terms in future periods or that our relationships will continue beyond the terms of our existing contracts with them. Our operating revenues and results of operations could suffer if, among other things, any of our retail distributors renegotiates, terminates or fails to renew, or to renew on similar or favorable terms, its agreement with us or otherwise chooses to modify the level of support it provides for our products.. Our base of tax preparation partners is concentrated and the performance of our Processing and Settlement Services segment depends in part on our ability to retain existing partners.. If one or more of our major tax preparation partners were to substantially reduce or stop offering our services to their customers, our tax refund processing services business, a component of our Processing and Settlement Services segment, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. Substantially all the revenues we generate from our tax refund processing services business have come from sales through a relatively small number of tax preparation firms.  We do not have long-term contractual commitments from any of our current tax preparation partners and our tax preparation partners may elect to not renew their contracts with us with little or no advance notice. As a result, we cannot be assured that any of our current tax preparation partners will continue to partner with us past the terms in their current agreements. A termination of our relationships with certain tax preparation partners that provide commercial tax preparation software would result in lost revenue and the loss of the ability to secure future relationships with new or existing tax preparation firms that use such tax software.. Our future success depends upon the active and effective promotion of our products and services by retail distributors and tax preparation partners, but their interests and operational decisions might not always align with our interests.. Most of our operating revenues are derived from our products and services sold at the stores of our retail distributors. In addition, a large portion of our Processing and Settlement Services revenues are dependent on tax preparation partners as the revenues we generate from our tax refund processing services are largely derived from products and services sold through retail tax preparation businesses and income tax software providers. Revenues from our retail distributors and tax preparation partners depend on a number of factors outside our control and may vary from period to period. Because we compete with many other providers of products and services, including competing prepaid cards and tax refund processing services, for placement and promotion of products in the stores of our retail distributors or in conjunction with the delivery of tax preparation services by our tax preparation providers, our success depends on our retail distributors and tax preparation partners and their willingness to promote our products and services successfully. In general, our contracts with these third parties allow them to exercise significant discretion over the placement and promotion of our products and services; they could give higher priority to the products and services of other companies for a variety of reasons.  Accordingly, losing the support of our retail distributors and tax preparation partners might limit or reduce the sales of our products and services. Our operating revenues and operating expenses may also be negatively affected by operational decisions by our retail distributors and tax preparation partners. For example, if a retail distributor reduces shelf space for our products or implements changes in its systems that disrupt the integration between its systems and ours, our product sales could be reduced or decline and we may incur additional merchandising costs to ensure our products are appropriately stocked. Similarly, for a variety of reasons, many of our tax preparation partners that provide commercial income tax preparation software offer their customers several types for tax refund processing services, including those of our competitors. Even if our retail distributors and tax preparation. 12. Table of Contents. partners actively and effectively promote our products and services, there can be no assurance that their efforts will maintain or result in growth of our operating revenues.. We make significant investments in products and services that may not be successful.. Our prospects for growth depend on our ability to innovate by offering new, and adding value to our existing, product and service offerings and on our ability to effectively commercialize such innovations. We will continue to make investments in research, development, and marketing for new products and services, such as these or others. Investments in new products and services are speculative. Commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, price, the competitive environment and effective distribution and marketing. If customers do not perceive our new offerings as providing significant value, they may fail to accept our new products and services, which would negatively impact our operating revenues. We may not achieve significant operating revenues from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and services may not be as high as the margins we have experienced in the past.. Our operating revenues for a particular period are difficult to predict, and a shortfall in our operating revenues may harm our results of operations.. Our operating revenues for a particular period are difficult to predict. Our total operating revenues may decline or grow at a slower rate than in prior periods.  Our ability to meet financial expectations could be adversely affected by various factors, such as delays in implementing or realizing expected benefits from revenue growth activities and BaaS programs, increased competition within the store locations of many of our largest retail distributors and reputational damage and unreimbursed losses associated with disruption in the performance of our products and services.. Our ability to increase card usage and cardholder retention and to attract new long-term users of our products can also have a significant effect on our operating revenues. We may be unable to generate increases in card usage, cardholder retention or attract new long-term users of our products for a number of reasons, including our inability to maintain our existing distribution channels, the failure of our cardholder retention and usage incentives to influence cardholder behavior, our inability to predict accurately consumer preferences or industry changes and to modify our products and services on a timely basis in response thereto, and our inability to produce new features and services that appeal to existing and prospective customers. As a result, our results of operations could vary materially from period to period based on the degree to which we are successful in increasing card usage and cardholder retention and attracting long-term users of our products.. Either of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Seasonal fluctuations in the use of our products and services impact our results of operations and cash flows.. Our results of operations and cash flows vary from quarter to quarter, and periodically decline, due to the seasonal nature of the use of our products and services. For example, in recent years, our results of operations for the first half of each year have been favorably affected by large numbers of taxpayers electing to receive their tax refunds via direct deposit on our cards, which caused our operating revenues to be typically higher in the first halves of those years than they were in the corresponding second halves of those years. Our tax refund processing services business is also highly seasonal as it generates the substantial majority of its revenue in the first quarter, and substantially all of its revenue in the first half of each calendar year. Additionally, beginning in the first quarter of 2018, we expect our new business relationship with Intuit's TurboTax software to be an incremental driver of active cards and revenue for our Account Services segment, particularly during tax season. To the extent that seasonal fluctuations become more pronounced, or are not offset by other factors, our results of operations and cash flows from operating activities could fluctuate materially from period to period.. The industries in which we compete are highly competitive, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. The prepaid financial services and tax refund services industries are highly competitive and include a variety of financial and non-financial services vendors. We expect conditions in the markets in which we compete will remain highly competitive. For example, Walmart, CVS and other retail distributors have been selling competitive products at their store locations for the past several years. Competition is expected to negatively impact our operating revenues, and could cause us to compete on the basis of price or increase our sales and marketing expenses, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our current and potential competitors include:. 13. Table of Contents. • prepaid card program managers, such as American Express, First Data, Total Systems Services, and traditional banks, such as J.P. Morgan Chase;. • reload network providers, such as Visa, Western Union and MoneyGram;. • prepaid card distributors, such as InComm and Blackhawk Network; and. • providers of tax refund processing services, including tax preparation businesses with their own internally-developed products and services and independent providers, such as Republic Bank & Trust Company.. Some of these vendors compete with us in more than one of the vendor categories described above, while others are primarily focused in a single category. In addition, competitors in one category have worked or are working with competitors in other categories to compete with us. We also face actual and potential competition from retail distributors or from other companies that have decided or may in the future decide to compete, or compete more aggressively, in the prepaid financial services industry.  Similarly, some of our tax preparation partners have developed or may seek to develop their own products and services that compete with our tax refund processing services.. We also compete with businesses outside of the prepaid financial services industry, including traditional providers of financial services, such as banks that offer demand deposit accounts and card issuers that offer credit cards, private label retail cards and gift cards. In particular, our GoBank and secured card products are designed to compete directly with traditional service providers, such as banks and credit card companies, by providing products and services that they have traditionally provided. These and other competitors in the larger electronic payments industry are introducing innovative products and services that may compete with ours. We expect that this competition will continue as the prepaid financial services industry and the larger banking and electronic payments industry continues to evolve.  We also expect to compete with businesses outside the traditional tax refund processing services industry in the future as new entrants seek to develop software solutions that may replace the need for our tax refund processing services.. Many existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. In addition, many of our existing and potential competitors are substantially larger than we are, may already have or could develop substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer, develop or introduce a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies than we do to achieve broader brand recognition, customer awareness and retail penetration. We could also experience increased price competition. If this happens, we expect that the purchase and use of our products and services would decline. If price competition materially intensifies, we may have to increase the incentives that we offer to our retail distributors and our tax preparation partners and decrease the prices of our products and services, any of which would likely adversely affect our results of operations.. Our long-term success depends on our ability to compete effectively against existing and potential competitors that seek to provide prepaid cards or other electronic payment products and services or tax refund processing services. If we fail to compete effectively against these competitors, our revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business could be materially and adversely affected.. Acquisitions or investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition.. We have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the future, other businesses and technologies. The process of integrating an acquired business, product, service or technology can involve a number of special risks and challenges, including:. • increased regulatory and compliance requirements;. • implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company;. • diversion of management time and focus from operation of our then-existing business;. • integration and coordination of product, sales, marketing, program and systems management functions;. • transition of the acquired company's users and customers onto our systems;. • integration of the acquired company's accounting, information management, human resource and other administrative systems and operations generally with ours;. • integration of employees from the acquired company into our organization;. • loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees;. • liability for activities of the acquired company prior to the acquisition, including violations of law, commercial disputes, and tax and other known and unknown liabilities; and. 14. Table of Contents. • increased litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims brought by terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties.. If we are unable to successfully integrate an acquired business or technology or otherwise address these special risks and challenges or other problems encountered in connection with an acquisition, we might not realize the anticipated benefits of that acquisition, we might incur unanticipated liabilities or we might otherwise suffer harm to our business generally. Unanticipated costs, delays or other operational or financial problems related to integrating the acquired company and business with our company may result in the diversion of our management's attention from other business issues and opportunities. To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. We also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions.  Failures or difficulties in integrating the operations of the businesses that we acquire, including their personnel, technology, compliance programs, risk management systems, financial systems, distribution and general business operations and procedures, marketing, promotion and other relationships, may affect our ability to grow and may result in us incurring asset impairment or restructuring charges. Furthermore, acquisitions and investments are often speculative in nature and the actual benefits we derive from them could be lower or take longer to materialize than we expect.. To the extent we pay the consideration for any future acquisitions or investments in cash, it would reduce the amount of cash available to us for other purposes. Future acquisitions or investments could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, or goodwill impairment charges, any of which could harm our financial condition and negatively impact our stockholders.. Fraudulent and other illegal activity involving our products and services could lead to reputational damage to us, reduce the use and acceptance of our cards and reload network, reduce the use of our tax refund processing services, and may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities involving prepaid cards, reload products, checking accounts or customer information. Illegal activities involving our products and services often include malicious social engineering schemes, where people are asked to provide a prepaid card or reload product in order to obtain a loan or purchase goods or services. Illegal activities may also include fraudulent payment or refund schemes and identity theft. We rely upon third parties for transaction processing services, which subjects us and our customers to risks related to the vulnerabilities of those third parties. A single significant incident of fraud, or increases in the overall level of fraud, involving our cards and other products and services, have in the past and could in the future result in reputational damage to us. Such damage could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards and other products and services, cause retail distributors or network acceptance members to cease doing business with us or lead to greater regulation that would increase our compliance costs. Fraudulent activity could also result in the imposition of regulatory sanctions, including significant monetary fines, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, to address the challenges we face with respect to fraudulent activity, we have implemented risk control mechanisms that have made it more difficult for all customers, including legitimate customers, to obtain and use our products and services. We believe it is likely that our risk control mechanisms may continue to adversely affect our new card activations from legitimate customers for the foreseeable future and that our operating revenues will be negatively impacted as a result.. As a bank holding company, we are subject to extensive and potentially changing regulation and may be required to serve as a source of strength for Green Dot Bank, which may adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.. As a bank holding company, we are subject to comprehensive supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the State of Utah Department of Financial Institutions and must comply with applicable regulations and other commitments we have agreed to, including financial commitments in respect to minimum capital and leverage requirements. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, we may become subject to formal or informal enforcement actions, proceedings, or investigations, which could result in regulatory orders, restrictions on our business operations or requirements to take corrective actions, which may, individually or in the aggregate, affect our results of operations and restrict our ability to grow. If we fail to comply with the applicable capital and leverage requirements, or if our subsidiary bank fails to comply with its applicable capital and leverage commitments, the Federal Reserve Board may limit our ability to pay dividends or fund stock repurchases, or if we become less than adequately capitalized, require us to raise additional capital. In addition, as a bank holding company and a financial holding company, we are generally prohibited from engaging, directly or indirectly, in any activities other than those permissible for bank holding. 15. Table of Contents. companies and financial holding companies. This restriction might limit our ability to pursue future business opportunities which we might otherwise consider but which might fall outside the scope of permissible activities.. A substantial portion of Green Dot Bank's deposit liabilities are currently classified as brokered deposits, and the failure by Green Dot Bank to maintain its status as a \"well-capitalized\" institution could have a serious adverse effect on Green Dot Bank's ability to conduct key portions of its current deposit-taking activity.. On January 5, 2015, the FDIC published industry guidance in the form of Frequently Asked Questions (\"FAQs\") with respect to, among other things, the categorization of deposit liabilities as \"brokered\" deposits.  This guidance was later supplemented on November 13, 2015, and June 30, 2016. Based on this guidance, a vast majority of Green Dot Bank's deposits are currently classified as brokered. If Green Dot Bank ceases to be categorized as \"well capitalized\" under banking regulations, it could be prohibited from accepting, renewing or rolling over brokered deposits without the consent of the FDIC. In such a case, the FDIC's refusal to grant consent to our accepting, renewing or rolling over brokered deposits could materially adversely effect the financial condition and operations of Green Dot Bank and the Company and could effectively restrict the ability of Green Dot Bank to operate its business lines as presently conducted.. Changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject, or to which we may become subject, may increase our costs of operation, decrease our operating revenues and disrupt our business.. The provision of banking services, prepaid financial services and tax refund processing services is highly regulated and, from time to time, the laws and regulations affecting these industries, and the manner in which they are interpreted, are subject to change and legal action.  Accordingly, changes in laws and regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof may occur that could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business, require significant systems redevelopment, or render our products or services less profitable or obsolete, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, we could face more stringent anti-money laundering rules and regulations, as well as more stringent licensing rules and regulations, compliance with which could be expensive and time consuming. In addition, adverse rulings relating to the industries in which we participate could cause our products and services to be subject to additional laws and regulations, which could make our products and services less profitable.. If additional regulatory requirements were imposed on the sale of our products and services and our bank, the requirements could lead to a loss of retail distributors, tax preparation partners or other business partners, which, in turn, could materially and adversely impact our operations. Moreover, if our products are adversely impacted by the interpretation or enforcement of these regulations or we or any of our retail distributors or tax preparation partners were unwilling or unable to make any such operational changes to comply with the interpretation or enforcement thereof, we would no longer be able to sell our products and services through that noncompliant retail distributor or tax preparation partner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. State and federal legislators and regulatory authorities are increasingly focused on the banking and consumer financial services industries, and may propose and adopt new legislation that could result in significant adverse changes in the regulatory landscape for financial institutions and financial services companies.. If new regulations or laws result in changes in the way we are regulated, these regulations could expose us to increased regulatory oversight, more burdensome regulation of our business, and increased litigation risk, each of which could increase our costs and decrease our operating revenues. Furthermore, limitations placed on fees we charge or the disclosures that must be provided with respect to our products and services could increase our costs and decrease our operating revenues.. Changes in laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with existing laws and regulations, applicable to our tax refund-related services could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition.. We derive a significant portion of our total operating revenues and earnings from tax refund processing and settlement services. The tax preparation industry is regulated under a variety of statutes in addition to those regulations currently applicable to our prepaid products and services, all of which are subject to change and which may impose significant costs, limitations or prohibitions on the way we conduct or expand our tax refund processing and related services.  In recent years, state legislators, state attorneys general, and regulators have increased their focus on the tax preparation industry including tax refund processing services and the use thereof by tax preparation firms.  Laws making such services less profitable, or even unprofitable, could be passed in any state at any time or existing laws could expire or be amended, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. State regulators have broad discretionary power and may impose new requirements, interpret or enforce existing regulatory requirements in different ways or issue new administrative rules, even if not contained in state statutes, and state attorneys general could take actions, that affect the way we offer our. 16. Table of Contents. tax refund-related services and may force us to terminate, modify, or cease our operations in particular states. State or federal regulators could also impose rules that are generally adverse to our tax refund-related services. Any new requirements or rules, or new interpretations of existing requirements or rules, or failure to follow requirements or rules, or future lawsuits or rulings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition.. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and failure by us, the banks that issue our cards, the businesses that participate in our reload network, the banks that assist with our tax refund processing services, and our tax preparation partners to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and failure by us, the banks that issue our cards or the businesses that participate in our reload network or other business partners to comply with the laws and regulations to which we are subject could negatively impact our business. We are subject to state money transmission licensing requirements and a wide range of federal and other state laws and regulations. In particular, our products and services are subject to an increasingly strict set of legal and regulatory requirements intended to protect consumers and to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and other illicit activities.. Many of these laws and regulations are evolving, unclear and inconsistent across various jurisdictions, and ensuring compliance with them is difficult and costly. For example, with increasing frequency, federal and state regulators are holding businesses like ours to higher standards of training, monitoring and compliance, including monitoring for possible violations of laws by the businesses that participate in our reload network. Failure by us or those businesses to comply with the laws and regulations to which we are or may become subject could result in fines, penalties or limitations on our ability to conduct our business, or federal or state actions, any of which could significantly harm our reputation with consumers and other network participants, banks that issue our cards and regulators, and could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Changes in rules or standards set by the payment networks, such as Visa and MasterCard, or changes in debit network fees or products or interchange rates, could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.. We are subject to association rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks for acts or omissions by us or businesses that work with us, including card processors, such as MasterCard PTS. The termination of the card association registrations held by us or any changes in card association or other debit network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of existing rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide our products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, from time to time, card associations may increase the fees that they charge, which could increase our operating expenses, reduce our profit margin and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our operating revenues is derived from interchange fees. For the year ended  December 31, 2017, interchange revenues represented 29.0% of our total operating revenues, and we expect interchange revenues to continue to represent a significant percentage of our total operating revenues. The amount of interchange revenues that we earn is highly dependent on the interchange rates that the payment networks set and adjust from time to time.. The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act required the Federal Reserve Board to implement regulations that have substantially limited interchange fees for many issuers. While the interchange rates that may be earned by us and our subsidiary bank are exempt from the limitations imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act, there can be no assurance that future regulation or changes by the payment networks will not impact our interchange revenues substantially. If interchange rates decline, whether due to actions by the payment networks or future regulation, we would likely need to change our fee structure to offset the loss of interchange revenues. However, our ability to make these changes is limited by the terms of our contracts and other commercial factors, such as price competition. To the extent we increase the pricing of our products and services, we might find it more difficult to acquire consumers and to maintain or grow card usage and customer retention, and we could suffer reputational damage and become subject to greater regulatory scrutiny. We also might have to discontinue certain products or services. As a result, our total operating revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business could be materially and adversely affected.. 17. Table of Contents. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance.. From time to time, we issue guidance in our quarterly earnings conference calls, or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represents our management's estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which constitutes forward-looking statements, is based upon a number of management's assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. While we have stated and we intend to continue to state possible outcomes as high and low ranges that are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed, we can provide no assurances that actual results will not fall outside of the suggested ranges.. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any of these persons.. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying the guidance furnished by us will prove to be incorrect or will vary significantly from actual results. For example, on a number of occasions over the last several years we adjusted our revenue guidance when actual results varied from our assumptions. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our guidance and the variations may be material.. Any failure to implement our operating strategy successfully or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in this Item 1A could result in our actual operating results being different from our guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material.. We receive important services from third-party vendors. Replacing them would be difficult and disruptive to our business.. Some services relating to our business, including fraud management and other customer verification services, transaction processing and settlement, card production, and customer service, are outsourced to third-party vendors.  We also depend on third-party banks to assist with our tax refund processing services.  It would be difficult to replace some of our third-party vendors in a timely manner if they were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services during the term of their agreements with us and our business and operations could be adversely affected.  In particular, due to the seasonality in our business, any material service interruptions or service delays with key vendors during the tax season could result in losses that have an even greater adverse effect on that business than would be the case with our overall business.. Our business could suffer if there is a decline in the use of prepaid cards as a payment mechanism or there are adverse developments with respect to the prepaid financial services industry in general.. As the prepaid financial services industry evolves, consumers may find prepaid financial services to be less attractive than traditional or other financial services. Consumers might not use prepaid financial services for any number of reasons, including the general perception of our industry. If consumers do not continue or increase their usage of prepaid cards, including making changes in the way prepaid cards are loaded, our operating revenues may remain at current levels or decline. Any projected growth for the industry may not occur or may occur more slowly than estimated. If consumer acceptance of prepaid financial services does not continue to develop or develops more slowly than expected or if there is a shift in the mix of payment forms, such as cash, credit cards, traditional debit cards and prepaid cards, away from our products and services, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Our business is dependent on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of computer network systems and data centers.. Our ability to provide reliable service to customers and other network participants depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers as well as those of our retail distributors, network acceptance members and third-party processors. Our business involves movement of large sums of money, processing of large numbers of transactions and management of the data necessary to do both. Our success in our account programs, including our BaaS programs, as well as our processing and settlement services, depends upon the efficient and error-free handling of the money that is collected, remitted or deposited in connection with the provision of our products and services. We rely on the ability of our employees, systems and processes and those of the banks that issue our cards, our retail distributors, tax refund preparation partners, our network acceptance members, other business partners and third-party processors to process and facilitate these transactions in an efficient, uninterrupted and error-free manner. Their failure to do so could materially and adversely impact our operating revenues and results. 18. Table of Contents. of operations, particularly during the tax season, when we derive substantially all of operating revenues for our tax refund processing services and a significant portion of our other operating revenues.. Our systems are susceptible to outages and interruptions due to fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, software or hardware defects, terrorist attacks and similar events. Furthermore, we currently ultilize third-party data center hosting facilities located in the United States and other countries.  Interruptions in our service may result for a number of reasons. For example, the data center hosting facilities that we use could be closed without adequate notice or suffer unanticipated problems resulting in lengthy interruptions in our service.  Moreover, as we continue to add data centers and add capacity in our existing data centers, we could experience problems transferring customer accounts and data, impairing the delivery of our service. Any damage to, or failure of, our processes or systems generally, or those of our vendors (including as a result of disruptions at our third-party data center hosting facilities), or an improper action by our employees, agents or third-party vendors, could result in interruptions in our service, causing customers, retail distributors and other partners to become dissatisfied with our products and services or obligate us to issue credits or pay fines or other penalties to them. Sustained or repeated process or system failures could reduce the attractiveness of our products and services, including our BaaS platform, and result in contract terminations, thereby reducing operating revenue and harming our results of operations. Further, negative publicity arising from these types of disruptions could be damaging to our reputation and may adversely impact use of our products and services, including our BaaS platform, and adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and business partners.  Some of our contracts with retail distributors, including our contract with Walmart, contain service level standards pertaining to the operation of our systems, and provide the retail distributor with the right to collect damages and potentially to terminate its contract with us for system downtime exceeding stated limits. If we face system interruptions or failures, our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to cover the losses or damages that we incur.. A data security breach could expose us to liability and protracted and costly litigation, and could adversely affect our reputation and operating revenues.. We and our retail distributors, tax preparation partners, network acceptance members, third-party processors and the merchants that accept our cards receive, transmit and store confidential customer and other information in connection with the sale and use of our products and services. Our encryption software and the other technologies we use to provide security for storage, processing and transmission of confidential customer and other information may not be effective to protect against data security breaches by third parties. The risk of unauthorized circumvention of our security measures has been heightened by advances in computer capabilities and the increasing sophistication of hackers. Our retail distributors, tax preparation partners, network acceptance members, other business partners, third-party processors and the merchants that accept our cards also may experience similar security breaches involving the receipt, transmission and storage of our confidential customer and other information. Improper access to our or these third parties' systems or databases could result in the theft, publication, deletion or modification of confidential customer and other information.. A data security breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder or other customer or end-customer data and account information are stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving our products and services, reputational damage and claims or regulatory actions against us. If we are sued in connection with any data security breach, we could be involved in protracted and costly litigation. If unsuccessful in defending that litigation, we might be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenues and profitability. We would also likely have to pay (or indemnify the banks that issue our cards for) fines, penalties and/or other assessments imposed by Visa or MasterCard as a result of any data security breach. Further, a significant data security breach could lead to additional regulation, which could impose new and costly compliance obligations. In addition, a data security breach at one of the third-party banks that issue our cards or at our retail distributors, tax preparation partners, network acceptance members, other business partners, third-party processors or the merchants that accept our cards could result in significant reputational harm to us and cause the use and acceptance of our cards or other products and services to decline, either of which could have a significant adverse impact on our operating revenues and future growth prospects. Moreover, it may require substantial financial resources to address and remediate any such breach, including additional costs for replacement cards, manufacturing, distribution, re-stocking fees, fraud monitoring and other added security measures, amongst others, which could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results.. Litigation or investigations could result in significant settlements, fines or penalties.. We are subject to regulatory oversight in the normal course of our business, and have been and from time to time may be subject to securities class actions and other litigation or regulatory or judicial proceedings or investigations.  The outcome of litigation and regulatory or judicial proceedings or investigations is difficult to predict. Plaintiffs or regulatory agencies or authorities in these matters may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, seek. 19. Table of Contents. to have aspects of our business suspended or modified or seek to impose sanctions, including significant monetary fines. The monetary and other impact of these actions, litigations, proceedings or investigations may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend, settle or otherwise resolve these matters may be significant. Further, an unfavorable resolution of litigation, proceedings or investigations against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. In this regard, such costs could make it more difficult to maintain the capital, leverage and other financial commitments at levels we have agreed to with the Federal Reserve Board and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions.  If regulatory or judicial proceedings or investigations were to be initiated against us by private or governmental entities, adverse publicity that may be associated with these proceedings or investigations could negatively impact our relationships with retail distributors, tax preparation partners, network acceptance members, other business partners and card processors and decrease acceptance and use of, and loyalty to, our products and related services, and could impact the price of our Class A common stock. In addition, such proceedings or investigations could increase the risk that we will be involved in litigation. The outcome of any such litigation is difficult to predict and the cost to defend, settle or otherwise resolve these matters may be significant. For the foregoing reasons, if regulatory or judicial proceedings or investigations were to be initiated against us by private or governmental entities, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected or our stock price could decline.. We must adequately protect our brand and our intellectual property rights related to our products and services and avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others.. The Green Dot, GoBank, MoneyPak, TPG and other brands and marks are important to our business, and we utilize trademark registrations and other means to protect them. Our business would be harmed if we were unable to protect our brand against infringement and its value was to decrease as a result.. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements to protect the intellectual property rights related to our products and services. We currently have 11 issued patents and 14 patent applications pending. Although we generally seek patent protection for inventions and improvements that we anticipate will be incorporated into our products and services, there is always a chance that our patents or patent applications could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that an issued patent will not adequately cover the scope of our inventions or improvements incorporated into our products or services. Additionally, our patents could be circumvented by third-parties.. We may unknowingly violate the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others and, thus, may be subject to claims by third parties. These assertions may increase over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the mobile technology field, the secrecy of some pending patents, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its elements infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. Regardless of the merit of these claims, we may be required to devote significant time and resources to defending against these claims or to protecting and enforcing our own rights. We might also be required to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements and there can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all. Some of our intellectual property rights may not be protected by intellectual property laws, particularly in foreign jurisdictions. The loss of our intellectual property or the inability to secure or enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend successfully against an infringement action could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We are exposed to losses from customer accounts.. Fraudulent activity involving our products may lead to customer disputed transactions, for which we may be liable under banking regulations and payment network rules. Our fraud detection and risk control mechanisms may not prevent all fraudulent or illegal activity. To the extent we incur losses from disputed transactions, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Additionally, our cardholders can incur charges in excess of the funds available in their accounts, and we may become liable for these overdrafts. While we decline authorization attempts for amounts that exceed the available balance in a cardholder's account, the application of card association rules, the timing of the settlement of transactions and the assessment of the card's monthly maintenance fee, among other things, can result in overdrawn accounts.. Maintenance fee assessment overdrafts occur as a result of our charging a cardholder, pursuant to the card's terms and conditions, the monthly maintenance fee at a time when he or she does not have sufficient funds in his or her account. Our remaining overdraft exposure arises primarily from late-posting. A late-post occurs when a merchant posts a transaction within a payment network-permitted timeframe but subsequent to our release of the authorization for that transaction, as permitted by card association rules. Under card association rules, we may be liable for the. 20. Table of Contents. amount of the transaction even if the cardholder has made additional purchases in the intervening period and funds are no longer available on the card at the time the transaction is posted.. We consider overdrawn account balances to be our receivables due from cardholders. We maintain reserves to cover the risk that we may not recover these receivables due from our cardholders, but our exposure may increase above these reserves for a variety of reasons, including our failure to predict the actual recovery rate accurately. To the extent we incur losses from overdrafts above our reserves or we determine that it is necessary to increase our reserves substantially, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. An impairment charge of goodwill or other intangible assets could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Because we have grown in part through acquisitions, our net goodwill and intangible assets represent a significant portion of our consolidated assets. Our net goodwill and intangible assets were $582.4 million as of December 31, 2017. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP, we are required to test the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets at least annually or sooner if events occur that indicate impairment could exist. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including a significant sustained decline in a reporting unit's fair value, legal and regulatory factors, operating performance indicators, competition and other factors.. U.S. GAAP requires us to assign and then test goodwill at the reporting unit level.  If over a sustained period of time we experience a decrease in our stock price and market capitalization, which may serve as an estimate of the fair value of our reporting unit, this may be an indication of impairment.  If the fair value of our reporting unit is less than its net book value, we may be required to record goodwill impairment charges in the future.  In addition, if the revenue and cash flows generated from any of our other intangible assets is not sufficient to support its net book value, we may be required to record an impairment charge.  The amount of any impairment charge could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the charge is taken.. If we are unable to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in our industry and the larger electronic payments industry necessary to continue providing our network acceptance members and cardholders with new and innovative products and services, the use of our cards and other products and services could decline.. The electronic payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of, and access to, new technologies. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to our industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently utilize in our products and services. Additionally, we may make future investments in, or enter into strategic alliances to develop, new technologies and services or to implement infrastructure change to further our strategic objectives, strengthen our existing businesses and remain competitive. However, our ability to transition to new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a lack of industry-wide standards, by resistance from our retail distributors, network acceptance members, third-party processors or consumers to these changes, or by the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. These initiatives are inherently risky, and they may not be successful or may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face settlement risks from our distributors and banking partners, which may increase during an economic downturn.. The majority of our business is conducted through retail distributors that sell our products and services to consumers at their store locations. Our retail distributors collect funds from the consumers who purchase our products and services and then must remit these funds directly to accounts established for the benefit of these consumers at the banks that issue our cards. The remittance of these funds by the retail distributor takes on average two business days. If a retail distributor becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to remit proceeds to our card issuing bank from the sales of our products and services, we are liable for any amounts owed to our customers. As of December 31, 2017, we had assets subject to settlement risk of $209.4 million. Given the possibility of recurring volatility in global financial markets, the approaches we use to assess and monitor the creditworthiness of our retail distributors may be inadequate, and we may be unable to detect and take steps to mitigate an increased credit risk in a timely manner.. 21. Table of Contents. Economic downturns could result in settlement losses, whether or not directly related to our business. We are not insured against these risks. Significant settlement losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Economic, political and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending.. The electronic payments industry, including the prepaid financial services segment within that industry, depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer spending. If conditions in the United States become uncertain or deteriorate, we may experience a reduction in the number of our cards that are purchased or reloaded, the number of transactions involving our cards and the use of our reload network and related services. A sustained reduction in the use of our products and related services, either as a result of a general reduction in consumer spending or as a result of a disproportionate reduction in the use of card-based payment systems, would materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We must be able to operate and scale our technology effectively.. Our ability to continue to provide our products and services to network participants, as well as to enhance our existing products and services and offer new products and services, is dependent on our information technology systems. If we are unable to manage and scale the technology associated with our business effectively, we could experience increased costs, reductions in system availability and losses of our network participants. Any failure of our systems in scalability and functionality would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, integrate, retain and incentivize key personnel.. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, integrate, retain and recognize key personnel, namely our management team and experienced sales, marketing and program and technology development personnel. Replacing departing key personnel can involve organizational disruption and uncertainty. We experience transitions among our executive officers from time to time. If we fail to manage these transitions successfully, we could experience significant delays or difficulty in the achievement of our development and strategic objectives and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely harmed. We must retain and motivate existing personnel, and we must also attract, assimilate and motivate additional highly-qualified employees. We may experience difficulty in managing transitions and assimilating our newly-hired personnel, which may adversely affect our business. Additionally, continued activist shareholder activities involving our company could make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. Competition for qualified management, sales, marketing and program and technology development personnel can be intense. Competitors have in the past and may in the future attempt to recruit our top management and employees. If we fail to attract, integrate, retain and incentivize key personnel, our ability to manage and grow our business could be harmed.. We might require additional capital to support our business in the future, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all.. If our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents balances and any cash generated from operations are not sufficient to meet our future cash requirements, we will need to access additional capital to fund our operations. We may also need to raise additional capital to take advantage of new business or acquisition opportunities. We may seek to raise capital by, among other things:. • issuing additional shares of our Class A common stock or other equity securities;. • issuing convertible or other debt securities; and. • borrowing funds under a credit facility.. We may not be able to raise needed cash in a timely basis on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings, if available, may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders. The holders of new securities may also receive rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of our Class A common stock. In addition, if we were to raise cash through a debt financing, the terms of the financing might impose additional conditions or restrictions on our operations that could adversely affect our business. If we require new sources of financing but they are insufficient or unavailable, we would be required to modify our operating plans to take into account the limitations of available funding, which would harm our ability to maintain or grow our business.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of stockholders.. The actions of stockholders could adversely affect our business. Specifically, certain actions of certain types of stockholders, including without limitation public proposals, requests to pursue a strategic combination or other transaction or special demands or requests, could disrupt our operations, be costly and time-consuming or divert the. 22. Table of Contents. attention of our management and employees and increase the volatility of our stock. In addition, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction in relation to the actions of our stockholders may result in the loss of potential business opportunities or the perception that we are unstable and need to make changes, which may be exploited by our competitors and make it more difficult to attract and retain personnel as well as customers, service providers and partners. Actions by our stockholders may also cause fluctuations in our stock price based on speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business.. The occurrence of catastrophic events could damage our facilities or the facilities of third parties on which we depend, which could force us to curtail our operations.. We and some of the third-party service providers on which we depend for various support functions, such as customer service and card processing, are vulnerable to damage from catastrophic events, such as power loss, natural disasters, terrorism and similar unforeseen events beyond our control. Our principal offices, for example, are situated in southern California near known earthquake fault zones. If any catastrophic event were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. In addition, we might not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from catastrophic events or other significant business interruptions. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies, as well as the damage to, or interruption of, our infrastructure and processes, could seriously impair our business and financial condition.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired, which could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. GAAP. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we might be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and might suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violate NYSE listing standards. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. We have in the past and may in the future discover areas of our internal financial and accounting controls and procedures that need improvement. Our internal control over financial reporting will not prevent or detect all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company will be detected. If we are unable to maintain proper and effective internal controls, we may not be able to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and could result in regulatory action, and could require us to restate, our financial statements. Any such restatement could result in a loss of public confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and sanctions imposed on us by the SEC.. Changes in accounting standards or inaccurate estimates or assumptions in the application of accounting policies could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported value of our assets or liabilities and results of operations and are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. If those assumptions, estimates or judgments were incorrectly made, we could be required to correct and restate prior period financial statements. Accounting standard-setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and banking regulators) may also amend or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how various standards should be applied. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the need to revise and republish prior period financial statements.. Our debt agreements contain restrictive covenants and financial ratio tests that restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions. If we fail to comply with these covenants or tests, our indebtedness under these agreements could become accelerated, which could adversely affect us.. In October 2014 we entered into a $225.0 million term credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as an administrative agent, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, and other lenders. This agreement contains various covenants that may have the effect of limiting, among other things, our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to: merge with other entities, enter into a transaction resulting in a change in control, create new liens, incur additional. 23. Table of Contents. indebtedness, sell assets outside of the ordinary course of business, enter into transactions with affiliates (other than subsidiaries) or substantially change the general nature of our and our subsidiaries' business, taken as a whole, make certain investments, enter into restrictive agreements, or make certain dividends or other distributions. These restrictions could limit our ability to take advantage of financing, merger, acquisition or other opportunities, to fund our business operations or to fully implement our current and future operating strategies.. Under the agreement, we have agreed to maintain compliance with a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.75 and 1.25, respectively, at the end of any fiscal quarter.  Our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests will be dependent upon our future performance and may be affected by events beyond our control (including factors discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section). If we fail to satisfy these requirements, our indebtedness under these agreements could become accelerated and payable at a time when we are unable to pay them. This would adversely affect our ability to implement our operating strategies and would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock. The price of our Class A common stock may be volatile.. In the recent past, stocks generally, and financial services company stocks in particular, have experienced high levels of volatility. The trading price of our Class A common stock has been highly volatile since our initial public offering and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. The trading price of our Class A common stock depends on a number of factors, including those described in this \"Risk Factors\" section, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our Class A common stock include the following:. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • significant volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of financial services company stocks;. • actual or anticipated changes in our results of operations or fluctuations in our operating results;. • actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or the recommendations of any securities analysts who follow our Class A common stock;. • actual or anticipated developments in our business or our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally;. • the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC;. • business disruptions and costs related to shareholder activism;. • litigation and investigations or proceedings involving us, our industry or both or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors;. • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles;. • general economic conditions;. • changes to the indices in which our Class A common stock is included; and. • sales of shares of our Class A common stock by us or our stockholders.. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have become subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. Our charter documents, Delaware law and our status as bank holding company could discourage, delay or prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to nominate directors for election to our board of directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions, among other things:. • provide for non-cumulative voting in the election of directors;. • provide for a classified board of directors;. 24. Table of Contents. • authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with terms determined by our board of directors and to issue additional shares of our Class A common stock;. • limit the voting power of a holder, or group of affiliated holders, of more than 24.9% of our common stock to 14.9%;. • provide that only our board of directors may set the number of directors constituting our board of directors or fill vacant directorships;. • prohibit stockholder action by written consent and limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; and. • require advance notification of stockholder nominations for election to our board of directors and of stockholder proposals.. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions under Delaware law, could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock and result in the trading price of our Class A common stock being lower than it otherwise would be.. In addition to the foregoing, under the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act, and their respective implementing regulations, Federal Reserve Board approval is necessary prior to any person or company acquiring control of a bank or bank holding company, subject to certain exceptions. Control, among other considerations, exists if an individual or company acquires 25% or more of any class of voting securities, and may be presumed to exist if a person acquires 10% or more of any class of voting securities. These restrictions could affect the willingness or ability of a third party to acquire control of us for so long as we are a bank holding company.. If securities analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our Class A common stock, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline.. We expect that the trading price for our Class A common stock will be affected by any research or reports that securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who currently cover us or our business downgrade their evaluations of our Class A common stock, the price of our Class A common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market for our Class A common stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline.. 25. Table of Contents"
