[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business is subject to numerous risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of these risks could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition and our prospects. In addition, risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful.. We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry that may not develop as expected. Assessing our business and future prospects is challenging in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter. These risks and difficulties include our ability to:. •  accurately forecast our revenues and plan our operating expenses;. •  increase the number of and retain existing restaurants and diners using our platform;. •  successfully compete with the traditional telephone, pen-and-paper takeout ordering process, along with other companies that are currently in, or may in the future enter, the business of allowing diners to order takeout food online;. •  successfully expand our business in existing markets and enter new markets;. •  successfully provide restaurant delivery services in a cost-efficient manner;. •  adapt to rapidly evolving trends in the ways consumers and businesses interact with technology;. •  avoid interruptions or disruptions in our service;. •  develop a scalable, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently and reliably handle increased usage, as well as the deployment of new features and products;. •  hire, integrate and retain talented sales, customer care, technology and other personnel; and. •  effectively manage rapid growth in our personnel and operations.. If the demand for ordering food online and through mobile applications does not develop as we expect, or if we fail to address the needs of restaurants or diners, our business will be harmed. We may not be able to successfully address these risks and difficulties, which could harm our business and results of operations.. If we fail to retain our existing restaurants and diners or to acquire new restaurants and diners in a cost-effective manner, our revenue may decrease and our business may be harmed.. We believe that growth of our business and revenue is dependent upon our ability to continue to grow our takeout marketplace in existing geographic markets by retaining our existing restaurants and diners and adding new restaurants and diners. The increase in restaurants attracts more diners to our platform and the increase in diners attracts more restaurants. This takeout marketplace takes time to build and may grow more slowly than we expect or than it has grown in the past. In addition, as we have become larger through organic growth, the growth rates for Active Diners, Daily Average Grubs and Gross Food Sales have at times slowed, and may similarly slow in the future, even if we continue to add restaurants and diners on an absolute basis. Although we expect that our growth rates will continue to slow during certain periods as our business increases in size, if we fail to retain either our existing. 10. restaurants (especially our most popular restaurants) or diners, the value of our takeout marketplace will be diminished. In addition, although we believe that many of our new restaurants and diners originate from word-of-mouth and other non-paid referrals from existing restaurants and diners, we also expect to continue to spend to acquire additional restaurants and diners. We cannot assure you that the revenue from the restaurants and diners we acquire will ultimately exceed the cost of acquisition.. While a key part of our business strategy is to add restaurants and diners in our existing geographic markets, to a lesser degree, we may also expand our operations into new geographic markets. In doing so, we may incur losses or otherwise fail to enter new markets successfully. Our expansion into new markets may place us in unfamiliar competitive environments and involve various risks, including the need to invest significant resources and the possibility that returns on such investments will not be achieved for several years or at all.. Growth of our business will depend on a strong brand and any failure to maintain, protect and enhance our brand would hurt our ability to retain or expand our base of restaurants and diners and our ability to increase their level of engagement.. We believe that a strong brand is necessary to continue to attract and retain diners and, in turn, the restaurants in our network. We need to maintain, protect and enhance our brand in order to expand our base of diners and increase their engagement with our websites and mobile applications. This will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide differentiated products, and we may not be able to do so effectively. While we may choose to engage in a broader marketing campaign to further promote our brand, this effort may not be successful or cost effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance restaurant and diner awareness in a cost-effective manner, our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Furthermore, negative publicity about our Company, including delivery problems, issues with our technology and complaints about our personnel or customer service, could diminish confidence in, and the use of, our products, which could harm our results of operations and business.. We rely on restaurants in our network for many aspects of our business, and any failure by them to maintain their service levels could harm our business.. We rely upon restaurants in our network, principally small and local independent businesses, and, to a lesser degree, our independent contractor driver network, to provide quality food to our diners on a timely basis. If these restaurants or our independent contractor driver network experience difficulty servicing diner demand, producing quality food, providing timely delivery and good service or meeting our other requirements or standards, our reputation and brand could be damaged. In addition, if restaurants in our network were to cease operations, temporarily or permanently, face financial distress or other business disruption, or if our relationships with restaurants in our network deteriorate, we may not be able to provide diners with restaurant choices. This risk is more pronounced in markets where we have fewer restaurants. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in choosing or finding popular restaurants, if we fail to negotiate satisfactory pricing terms with them or if we ineffectively manage these relationships, it could harm our business and results of operations.. We experience significant seasonal fluctuations in our financial results, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate.. Our business is highly dependent on diner behavior patterns that we have observed over time. In our metropolitan markets, we generally experience a relative increase in diner activity from September to April and a relative decrease in diner activity from May to August. In addition, we benefit from increased order volume in our campus markets when school is in session and experience a decrease in order volume when school is not in session, during summer breaks and other vacation periods. Diner activity can also be impacted by colder or more inclement weather, which typically increases order volume, and warmer or sunny weather, which typically decreases order volume. Seasonality will likely cause fluctuations in our financial results on a quarterly basis. In addition, other seasonality trends may develop and the existing seasonality and diner behavior that we experience may change or become more extreme.. We may not continue to grow at historical rates or maintain profitability in the future.. While our revenue has grown in recent periods, this growth rate may not be sustainable and we may not realize sufficient revenue to maintain profitability. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including insufficient growth in the number of restaurants and diners on our platform, increasing competition, as well as other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown factors. We expect to continue to make investments in the development and expansion of our business, which may not result in increased revenue or growth. In addition, as a public company, we incur and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. As a result of these increased expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain increased revenue to maintain profitability. Accordingly, we may not be able to maintain profitability and we may incur significant losses in the future, and this could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our brand, results of operations and business could be harmed.. We have experienced rapid growth in our headcount and operations, both through organic growth and recent acquisitions. This growth places substantial demands on management and our operational infrastructure. Many of our employees have been with us for fewer than 18 months. We have and intend to continue to make substantial investments in our technology, customer care, sales and marketing infrastructure. As we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new. 11. employees, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our Company culture. We may not be able to manage growth effectively. If we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our brand, business and results of operations.. The impact of economic conditions, including the resulting effect on consumer spending, may harm our business and results of operations.. Our performance is subject to economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. Some of the factors having an impact on discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, unemployment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. Consumer purchases of discretionary items generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods in which disposable income is adversely affected. Small businesses that do not have substantial resources, like a substantial number of the restaurants in our network, tend to be more adversely affected by poor economic conditions than large businesses. Also, because spending for food purchases from restaurants is generally considered to be discretionary, any decline in consumer spending may have a disproportionate effect on our business relative to those businesses that sell products or services considered to be necessities. If spending at many of the restaurants in our network declines, or if a significant number of these restaurants go out of business, diners may be less likely to use our service, which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, significant adverse economic conditions could harm the businesses of our corporate customers, resulting in decreased use of our platform. Moreover, the majority of restaurants in our network are located in major metropolitan areas like New York City, Chicago and the San Francisco Bay Area. To the extent any one of these geographic areas experience any of the above-described conditions to a greater extent than other geographic areas, the harm to our business and results of operations could be exacerbated.. We make the restaurant and diner experience our highest priority. Our dedication to making decisions based primarily on the best interests of restaurants and diners may cause us to forego short-term opportunities, which could impact our profitability.. We base many of our decisions upon the best interests of the restaurants and diners who use our platform. We believe that this approach has been essential to our success in increasing our growth rate and the frequency with which restaurants and diners use our platform and has served our long-term interests and those of our stockholders. We believe that it is our responsibility to make our diners happy. In the past, we have foregone, and we may in the future forego, certain expansion or revenue opportunities that we do not believe are in the best interests of our restaurants and diners, even if such decisions negatively impact our business or results of operations in the short term. Our focus on making decisions based primarily on the interests of the restaurants and diners who use our platform may not result in the long-term benefits that we expect, and our business and results of operations may be harmed.. If use of the Internet via websites, mobile devices and other platforms, particularly with respect to online food ordering, does not continue to increase as rapidly as we anticipate, our business and growth prospects will be harmed.. Our business and growth prospects are substantially dependent upon the continued and increasing use of the Internet as an effective medium of transactions by diners. Internet use may not continue to develop at historical rates, and diners may not continue to use the Internet and other online services to order their food at current or increased growth rates or at all. In addition, the Internet and mobile applications may not continue to be accepted as a viable platform or resource for a number of reasons, including:. •  actual or perceived lack of security of information or privacy protection;. •  possible disruptions, computer viruses or other damage to Internet servers, users' computers or mobile applications;. •  excessive governmental regulation; and. •  unacceptable delays due to actual or perceived limitations of wireless networks.. 12. Grubhub is expanding its independent contractor driver network. The status of the drivers as independent contractors, rather than employees, has been and may continue to be challenged. A reclassification of the drivers as employees could harm our business or results of operations.. We are involved or may become involved in legal proceedings and investigations that claim that members of the delivery network who we treat as independent contractors for all purposes, including employment tax and employee benefits, should instead be treated as employees. In addition, there can be no assurance that legislative, judicial or regulatory (including tax) authorities will not introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations that would mandate that we change our classification of the drivers. In the event of a reclassification of members of our independent contractor driver network as employees, we could be exposed to various liabilities and additional costs. These liabilities and costs could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations and/or make it cost prohibitive for us to deliver orders using our driver network, particularly in geographic areas where we don't have a lot of volume. These liabilities and additional costs could include exposure (for prior and future periods) under federal, state and local tax laws, and workers' compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, and employment laws, as well as potential liability for penalties and interest.. We face potential liability, expenses for legal claims and harm to our business based on the nature of our business and the content on our platform.. We face potential liability, expenses for legal claims and harm to our business relating to the nature of the takeout food business, including potential claims related to food offerings, delivery and quality. For example, third parties could assert legal claims against us in connection with personal injuries related to food poisoning or tampering or accidents caused by the delivery drivers of restaurants in our network or drivers in our delivery network. Alternatively, we could be subject to legal claims relating to the delivery of alcoholic beverages sold by restaurants on our network to underage diners.. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as E. Coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering have severely injured the reputations of participants in the food business and could do so in the future as well. The potential for acts of terrorism on our nation's food supply also exists and, if such an event occurs, it could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, reports of food-borne illnesses or food tampering, even those occurring solely at restaurants that are not in our network, could, as a result of negative publicity about the restaurant industry, harm our business and results of operations.. In addition, we face potential liability and expense for claims relating to the information that we publish on our websites and mobile applications, including claims for trademark and copyright infringement, defamation, libel and negligence, among others. For example, we could be subject to claims related to the content published on allmenus.com and MenuPages.com, which contain approximately 650,000 menus, based on the fact that we do not obtain prior permission from restaurants to include their menus.. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur legal claims. Potentially, the frequency of such claims could increase in proportion to the number of restaurants and diners that use our platform and as we grow. These claims could divert management time and attention away from our business and result in significant costs to investigate and defend, regardless of the merits of the claims. In some instances, we may elect or be compelled to remove content or may be forced to pay substantial damages if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to defend against these claims. If we elect or are compelled to remove valuable content from our websites or mobile applications, our platform may become less useful to restaurants and diners and our traffic may decline, which could harm our business and results of operations.. We may not timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology and network infrastructure to ensure that our platform is accessible, which would harm our reputation, business and results of operations.. It is critical to our success that restaurants and diners within our geographic markets be able to access our platform at all times. We have previously experienced service disruptions and, in the future, we may experience service disruptions, outages or other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of diners accessing our platform simultaneously, and denial of service or fraud or security attacks. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the availability of our platform, especially during peak usage times and as our products become more complex and our diner traffic increases. If our platform is unavailable when diners attempt to access it or it does not load as quickly as they expect, diners may seek other services, and may not return to our platform as often in the future, or at all. This would harm our ability to attract restaurants and diners and decrease the frequency with which they use our platform. We expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve the availability of our platform and to enable rapid releases of new features and products. To the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, respond adequately to service disruptions, upgrade our systems as needed or continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and results of operations would be harmed.. 13. Our failure to protect personal information provided by our diners against inappropriate disclosure, including security breaches, could violate applicable law and contracts with our service providers and could result in liability to us, damage to our reputation and brand and harm to our business.. We rely on third-party payment processors and encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties that is designed to effect secure transmission of personal information provided by our diners. In some cases, we retain third-party vendors to store data, including personal information. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against impermissible disclosure, including security breaches, or to address problems caused by such disclosure. If we, or our third-party providers, are unable to maintain the security of our diners' personal information, our reputation and brand could be harmed and we may lose current and potential diners, be exposed to litigation and possible liability.. Because we process and transmit payment card information, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry (\"PCI\") and Data Security Standard (the \"Standard\"). The Standard is a comprehensive set of requirements for enhancing payment account data security that was developed by the PCI Security Standards Council to help facilitate the broad adoption of consistent data security measures. We are required by payment card network rules to comply with the Standard, and our failure to do so may result in fines or restrictions on our ability to accept payment cards. Under certain circumstances specified in the payment card network rules, we may be required to submit to periodic audits, self-assessments or other assessments of our compliance with the Standard. Such activities may reveal that we have failed to comply with the Standard. If an audit, self-assessment or other test determines that we need to take steps to remediate any deficiencies, such remediation efforts may distract our management team and require us to undertake costly and time consuming remediation efforts. In addition, even if we comply with the Standard, there is no assurance that we will be protected from a security breach.. We are subject to payment-related risks, and if payment processors are unwilling or unable to provide us with payment processing service or impose onerous requirements on us in order to access their services, or if they increase the fees they charge us for these services, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit and debit cards, Apple Pay®, Android Pay\231 and gift cards. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay bank interchange and other fees. These fees may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profitability. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit and debit cards. Our business may be disrupted for an extended period of time if any of these companies becomes unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and/or lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from diners or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and results of operations could be harmed.. We rely on third parties, including our payment processor and data center hosts, and if these or other third parties do not perform adequately or terminate their relationships with us, our costs may increase and our business and results of operations could be harmed.. Our success will depend upon our relationships with third parties, including our payment processor and data center hosts. We rely on a third-party payment processor and encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties that is designed to effect secure transmission of personal information provided by our diners. We also rely on third-party data center hosts to provide a reliable network backbone with the speed, data capacity, security and hardware necessary for reliable Internet access and services. If our payment processor, or a data center host, or another third party, does not perform adequately, terminates its relationship with us or refuses to renew its agreement with us on commercially reasonable terms, we may have difficulty finding an alternate provider on similar terms and in an acceptable timeframe, our costs may increase and our business and results of operations could be harmed.. In addition, we rely on off-the-shelf hardware and software platforms developed by third parties to build and customize our Grubhub for Restaurants tablet and mobile application. If third parties fail to continue to produce or maintain these hardware and software platforms, our Grubhub for Restaurants tablet and mobile application may become less accessible to restaurants and diners, and our business and results of operations could be harmed.. If our security measures are compromised, or if our platform is subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of restaurants and diners to access our content, restaurants and diners may curtail or stop use of our platform.. Like all online services, our platform is vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, phishing attacks, attempts to overload our servers with denial-of-service, misappropriation of data through website scraping or other attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized use of our computer systems, any of which could lead to interruptions, delays or website shutdowns, causing loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure or use of personally identifiable or other confidential information. Like most Internet companies, we have experienced interruptions in our service in the past due to software and hardware issues as well as denial-of-service and other cyber-attacks and, in the future, may experience compromises to our security that result in performance or availability problems, the complete shutdown of our websites or the loss or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In the event of a prolonged service interruption or significant breach of our security measures, our restaurants and diners may lose trust and. 14. confidence in us and decrease their use of our platform or stop using our platform entirely. We may be unable to implement adequate preventative measures against or proactively address techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems because such techniques change frequently, often remain undetected until launched against a target and may originate from remote areas around the world that are less regulated. The impact of cyber security events experienced by third-parties with whom we do business (or upon whom we otherwise rely in connection with our day-to-day operations) could have a similar effect on us. Moreover, even cyber or similar attacks that do not directly affect us or third-parties with whom we do business may result in a loss of consumer confidence generally, which could make users less likely to use or continue to use our platform. Any or all of these issues could harm our ability to attract new restaurants and diners or deter current restaurants and diners from returning, reduce the frequency with which restaurants and diners use our platform, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, thereby harming our business and results of operations.. We compete primarily with the traditional offline ordering process and adherence to this traditional ordering method and pressure from existing and new companies that offer online ordering could harm our business and results of operations.. We primarily compete with the traditional offline ordering process used by the vast majority of restaurants and diners involving the telephone and paper menus that restaurants distribute to diners, as well as advertising that restaurants place in local publications to attract diners. Changing traditional ordering habits is difficult and if restaurants and diners do not embrace the transition to online food ordering as we expect, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. In addition to the traditional takeout ordering process, we compete with other online food ordering businesses, chain restaurants that have their own online ordering platforms, point of sale companies and restaurant delivery services. Our current and future competitors may enjoy competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, greater market share in certain markets and larger existing user bases in certain markets and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources than we have. Greater financial resources and product development capabilities may allow these competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in restaurant and diner requirements that may render our products less attractive or obsolete. These competitors have and may continue to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics and they may undertake more aggressive marketing campaigns than ours. Large Internet companies with substantial resources, users and brand power have also entered our market and compete with us. Furthermore, independent restaurants could determine that it is more cost effective to develop their own platforms to permit online takeout orders rather than use our service.. If we lose existing restaurants or diners in our network, fail to attract new restaurants or diners or are forced to reduce our commission percentage or make pricing concessions as a result of increased competition, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. If we do not continue to innovate and provide useful products or if our introduced products do not perform or are not adopted by restaurants in accordance with our expectations, we may not remain competitive and our business and results of operations could suffer.. Our success depends in part on our ability to continue to innovate. To remain competitive, we must continuously enhance and improve the functionality and features of our platform, including our websites and mobile applications. The Internet and the online commerce industry are rapidly changing and becoming more competitive. If competitors introduce new products embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing websites, technology and mobile applications may become obsolete. Our future success could depend on our ability to:. •  enhance our existing products and develop new products;. •  persuade restaurants to adopt our new technologies and products in a timely manner; and. •  respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis.. Developing our platform, which includes our mobile applications, websites and other technologies entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt to emerging industry standards. If we face material delays in introducing new or enhanced products or if our recently introduced products do not perform in accordance with our expectations, the restaurants and diners in our network may forego the use of our products in favor of those of our competitors.. Internet search engines drive traffic to our platform and our new diner growth could decline and our business and results of operations would be harmed if we fail to appear prominently in search results.. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract diners through unpaid Internet search results on search engines like Google, Yahoo! and Bing. The number of diners we attract to our platform from search engines is due in large part to how and where our websites rank in unpaid search results. These rankings can be affected by a number of factors, many of which are not under our direct control and may change frequently. For example, a search engine may change its ranking algorithms, methodologies or design layouts. As a result, links to our websites may not be prominent enough to drive traffic to our websites, and we may not know how or otherwise be in a position to influence the results. In some instances, search engine companies may change these rankings in a way that promotes their own competing products or services or the products or services of one or more of our competitors. Search engines may also adopt a more aggressive auction-pricing system for keywords that would cause us to incur higher advertising costs or reduce. 15. our market visibility to prospective diners. Our websites have experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. Any reduction in the number of diners directed to our platform could harm our business and results of operations.. We expect a number of factors to cause our results of operations to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance.. Our results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results include:. •  our ability to attract new restaurants and diners and retain existing restaurants and diners in our network in a cost effective manner;. •  our ability to accurately forecast revenue and appropriately plan our expenses;. •  the effects of changes in search engine placement and prominence;. •  the effects of increased competition on our business;. •  our ability to successfully expand in existing markets and successfully enter new markets;. •  the impact of worldwide economic conditions, including the resulting effect on diner spending on takeout;. •  the seasonality of our business, including the effect of academic calendars on college campuses and seasonal patterns in restaurant dining;. •  the impact of weather on our business;. •  our ability to protect our intellectual property;. •  our ability to maintain an adequate rate of growth and effectively manage that growth;. •  our ability to maintain and increase traffic to our platform;. •  our ability to keep pace with technology changes in the takeout industry;. •  the success of our sales and marketing efforts;. •  costs associated with defending claims, including intellectual property infringement claims and related judgments or settlements;. •  changes in governmental or other regulation affecting our business;. •  interruptions in service and any related impact on our business, reputation or brand;. •  the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel;. •  our ability to choose and effectively manage third-party service providers;. •  changes in diner behavior with respect to takeout;. •  the effects of natural or man-made catastrophic events;. •  the effectiveness of our internal controls;. •  the impact of payment processor costs and procedures;. •  changes in the online payment transfer rate; and. •  changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities.. The loss of key senior management personnel could harm our business and future prospects.. We depend on our senior management and other key personnel. We may not be able to retain the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel. Although we have employment agreements with our key senior management personnel, their employment is at-will and they could leave at any time. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and future prospects.. 16. We depend on talented personnel to grow and operate our business, and if we are unable to hire, retain, manage and motivate our personnel, or if our new personnel do not perform as we anticipate, we may not be able to grow effectively.. Our future success will depend upon our ability to continue to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain talented personnel. We may not be able to retain the services of any of our employees or other members of senior management in the future. In addition, from time to time, there may be changes in our senior management team that may be disruptive to our business. If our senior management team fails to work together effectively and to execute our plans and strategies, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. Our growth strategy also depends on our ability to expand our organization by attracting and hiring high-quality personnel. Identifying, attracting, recruiting, training, integrating, managing and motivating talented individuals will require significant time, expense and attention. Competition for talent is intense, particularly in technology driven industries such as ours. If we are not able to effectively recruit and retain our talent, our business and our ability to achieve our strategic objectives would be harmed.. Unfavorable media coverage could harm our business and results of operations.. We are the subject of media coverage from time to time. Unfavorable publicity regarding our business model, content, personnel, customer care, technology, product changes, product quality or privacy practices could harm our reputation. Such negative publicity could also harm the size of our network and engagement and loyalty of our restaurants and diners, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Our business, and that of our third-party providers and third-party data center, is subject to the risks of severe weather, earthquakes, fires, floods, hurricanes and other natural catastrophic events and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism.. Our business, particularly in areas of significant concentration like New York, Chicago and San Francisco, is subject to damage or interruption from severe weather, earthquakes, fires, floods, tornadoes, hurricanes, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war and similar events. For example, severe weather in Chicago, the location of our corporate headquarters and most of our customer care staff, could inhibit the ability of our customer care staff to get to work, which could result in service problems and complaints from restaurants or diners. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems, as well as those of our third-party providers and third-party data centers, and the Internet to conduct our business and provide high quality customer service, disruptions could harm our ability to run our business, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. For example, in 2017, hurricanes Harvey and Irma impacted business in the affected areas and in January 2016, Winter Storm Jonas caused certain restaurants to shut-down in New York City, and other East Coast cities, which resulted in restaurants being unable to fulfill orders on our platform. These events could also negatively impact diner activity or the ability of restaurants to continue to operate.. Increases in food, labor, energy and other costs could adversely affect results of operations.. An increase in restaurant operating costs could cause restaurants in our network to raise prices or cease operations. Factors such as inflation, increased food costs, increased labor and employee benefit costs, increased rent costs and increased energy costs may increase restaurant operating costs. Many of the factors affecting restaurant costs are beyond the control of the restaurants in our network. In many cases, these restaurants may not be able to pass along these increased costs to diners and, as a result, may cease operations, which could harm our profitability and results of operations. Additionally, if these restaurants raise prices, order volume may decline, which could harm our profitability and results of operations.. Acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our business and results of operations.. As part of our business strategy, we have and we will continue to selectively explore acquisition opportunities of companies and technologies to strengthen our platform. For example, in 2017 we completed the acquisitions of Eat24 and Foodler and in 2015 and 2016, we completed the acquisitions of DiningIn, Restaurants on the Run, Delivered Dish and LABite. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. The risks we face in connection with acquisitions include:. •  regulatory hurdles;. •  anticipated benefits may not materialize;. •  diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges;. •  transition of the acquired company's users to our websites and mobile applications;. •  retention of employees from the acquired company;. •  assimilation, integration and maintenance of the acquired company's business;. •  cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization;. 17. •  integration of the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems;. •  the need to implement or improve controls, procedures and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies;. •  coordination of product development and sales and marketing functions;. •  liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; and. •  litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, users, former stockholders or other third parties.. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses or the impairment of goodwill, any of which could harm our business and results of operations.. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes could substantially harm our business and results of operations.. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as federal and state regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet, e-commerce or other online services, and increase the cost of providing online services. These regulations and laws may cover sweepstakes, taxation, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales, use and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may harm our business and results of operations.. Our business is subject to a variety of U.S. laws, many of which are unsettled and still developing and which could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business or results of operations.. We are subject to a variety of laws in the United States, including laws regarding data retention, online credit card payments, privacy, data security, distribution of user-generated content, consumer protection, tax and securities laws, which are frequently evolving and developing. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to us are often uncertain and may be conflicting.. In addition, we may be subject to foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations, which can be more restrictive than those in the United States and could impact our ability to transfer, process and/or receive transnational data. The regulatory framework for privacy and security issues is evolving and may remain in flux for some period of time. It is difficult to ascertain whether this will impact our business in the United Kingdom. It is also likely that if our business grows and evolves and our products are used in a greater number of geographies, we will become subject to laws and regulations in additional jurisdictions. It is difficult to predict how existing laws will be applied to our business and the new laws to which we may become subject.. If we are not able to comply with these laws or regulations or if we become liable under these laws or regulations, we could be harmed, and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources or to discontinue certain products or features, which would negatively affect our business. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred to prevent or mitigate this potential liability could also harm our business and results of operations.. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm our business and results of operations.. Our business depends on our intellectual property, the protection of which is crucial to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property, technology and confidential information by requiring our employees and consultants who develop intellectual property on our behalf to enter into confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements and non-competition agreements, and third parties to enter into nondisclosure agreements. These agreements may not effectively prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, intellectual property or technology and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, intellectual property or technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our website features, software and functionality or obtain and use information that we consider proprietary.. We have registered, among numerous other trademarks, \"Grubhub,\" \"Seamless\" and \"MenuPages\" as trademarks in the United States. Competitors have and may continue to adopt service names similar to ours, thereby harming our ability to build brand identity. 18. and possibly leading to user confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other trademarks that are similar to our trademarks. Litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other governmental authorities and administrative bodies in the United States and abroad may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Our efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could harm our business and results of operations.. We may be unable to continue to use the domain names that we use in our business, or prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of our brand or our trademarks or service marks.. We have registered domain names for our websites that we use in our business, most importantly seamless.com, grubhub.com, eat24.com, MenuPages.com and allmenus.com. If we lose the ability to use a domain name, whether due to trademark claims, failure to renew the applicable registration, or any other cause, we may be forced to market our products under a new domain name, which could cause us substantial harm, or to incur significant expense in order to purchase rights to the domain name in question. In addition, our competitors and others could attempt to capitalize on our brand recognition by using domain names similar to ours. Domain names similar to ours have been registered in the United States and elsewhere. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of our brand or our trademarks or service marks. Protecting and enforcing our rights in our domain names may require litigation, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could in turn harm our business and results of operations.. Intellectual property infringement assertions by third parties could result in significant costs and harm our business, results of operations and reputation.. We operate in an industry with extensive intellectual property litigation. Other parties have asserted, and in the future may assert, that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. Such litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue, and therefore our own issued and pending patents may provide little or no deterrence. We could be required to pay substantial damages or cease using intellectual property or technology that is deemed infringing.. For example, we are currently a defendant in a patent infringement suit filed by Ameranth, Inc. (\"Ameranth\") in which we are alleged to infringe on patents relating to online ordering software. See Part I, Item 3, \"Legal Proceedings,\" and Part II, Item 8, Note 7, \"Commitments and Contingencies,\" to the accompanying consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of this litigation. This litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and costs. In addition, the outcome of any litigation is inherently unpredictable and, as a result of this litigation, we may be required to pay damages, an injunction may be entered against us, or a license or other right to continue to deliver an unmodified version of the service may not be made available to us at all or may require us to pay ongoing royalties and comply with unfavorable terms. Any of these outcomes could harm our business. Even if we were to prevail, this litigation could be costly and time-consuming, could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, and may discourage restaurants and diners from using our products.. Furthermore, we cannot predict whether other assertions of third-party intellectual property rights or claims arising from such assertions will substantially harm our business and results of operations. The defense of these claims and any future infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, may result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys' fees if we are found to have willfully infringed a party's patent or copyright rights; cease making, licensing or using products that are alleged to incorporate the intellectual property of others; expend additional development resources to redesign our products; and enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In any event, we may need to license intellectual property which would require us to pay royalties or make one-time payments. Even if these matters do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor or without significant cash settlements, the time and resources necessary to resolve them could harm our business, results of operations and reputation.. Some of our products contain open source software, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software and products.. We use open source software in our products and will use open source software in the future. From time to time, we may face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software and/or derivative works that we developed using such software (which could include our proprietary source code), or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims could result in litigation and could require us to purchase a costly license or cease offering the implicated products unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement. This re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could harm our business and results of operations.. 19. Our credit agreement contains operating and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities.. We are party to a credit agreement in connection with our secured, revolving credit facility. The obligations under the credit agreement are guaranteed by the Company and its domestic subsidiaries and secured by a lien on substantially all of the tangible and intangible property of the Company, and by a pledge of all of the equity interests of the Company's domestic subsidiaries.. The credit agreement contains customary covenants that, among other things, require the Company to satisfy certain financial covenants and restrict the Company's and its subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur additional debt, create liens, make certain investments and acquisitions, pay dividends and make distributions, transfer and sell material assets and merge or consolidate. As a result, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities. These restrictions could place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors.. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet these covenants. From time to time, we may be required to seek waivers or amendments to the credit agreement to maintain compliance with these covenants, and there can be no certainty that any such waiver or amendment will be available, or what the cost of such waiver or amendment, if obtained, would be. Non-compliance with one or more of these covenants could result in any amounts outstanding under the credit agreement becoming immediately due and payable and termination of the commitments.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash available to repay our debt obligations, if any, when they become due and payable, either when they mature or in the event of a default, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all.. In addition to the capital available under the credit facility, we may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all.. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new features and products or enhance our existing products, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any additional debt financing that we secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be impaired, and our business may be harmed.. Our business and results of operations may be harmed if we are deemed responsible for the collection and remittance of state sales taxes for our restaurants.. If we are deemed an agent for the restaurants in our network under state tax law, we may be deemed responsible for collecting and remitting sales taxes directly to certain states. It is possible that one or more states could seek to impose sales, use or other tax collection obligations on us with regard to such food sales. These taxes may be applicable to past sales. A successful assertion that we should be collecting additional sales, use or other taxes or remitting such taxes directly to states could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales and additional administrative expenses, which would harm our business and results of operations.. As a public company, we incur significant costs to comply with the laws and regulations affecting public companies which could harm our business and results of operations.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") and the listing requirements of the NYSE, and other applicable securities rules and regulations. These rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and have made and will continue to make some activities more time consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations could make it more difficult and more costly for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or our board committees or as executive officers. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. As a result, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business and operating results. Although we have hired additional employees to comply with these requirements, we may need to hire more employees in the future, which will increase our costs and expenses.. Our management team, including our CEO, has limited experience in managing publicly traded companies. Our management team and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to new compliance initiatives and we may not successfully or efficiently manage our transition to a public company. To comply with the requirements of being a public company, including the Sarbanes-. 20. Oxley Act, we have taken various actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring accounting or internal audit staff, which have required us to incur additional costs and expenses and could harm our results of operations.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. A significant portion of our common stock is held by our existing executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock, whose interests may differ from yours.. As of February 16, 2018, our current executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 57% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Some of these persons or entities may have interests that are different from yours. For example, these stockholders may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree or which are not in your interests or which adversely impact the value of your investment. These stockholders will be able to exercise a significant level of control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control in us or changes in management and could also make the approval of certain transactions difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock.. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Since shares of our common stock were sold in our IPO in April 2014 at a price of $26.00 per share, the reported high and low sales prices of our common stock have ranged from $17.77 to $96.58 through February 16, 2018. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our common stock since you might be unable to sell your shares at or above the price you paid. In addition to the factors discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include the following:. •  price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. •  volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks, particularly Internet stocks;. •  changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular;. •  sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders;. •  failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our Company or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors;. •  the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of new products;. •  the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC;. •  rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry;. •  actual or anticipated changes in our results of operations or fluctuations in our results of operations;. •  actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally;. •  litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors;. •  developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights;. •  announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors;. •  new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. •  changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles;. •  any significant change in our management; and. •  general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets.. 21. In addition, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and harm our business and results of operations.. We cannot guarantee that we will repurchase additional shares of our common stock pursuant to our ongoing share repurchase program or that our share repurchase program will enhance stockholder value. Share repurchases could also increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and could diminish our cash reserves.. On January 22, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a program that authorizes the repurchase of up to $100 million of our common stock exclusive of any fees, commissions or other expenses relating to such repurchases through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions at the prevailing market price at the time of purchase.. Although our Board of Directors has approved the share repurchase program, we are not obligated to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. The timing and amount of repurchases, if any, will depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, the trading price of our common stock and the nature of other investment opportunities. The repurchase program may be limited, suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice, which could result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program could affect the trading price of our common stock or increase its volatility. For example, the existence of a share repurchase program could cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our common stock. Additionally, our share repurchase program may cause us to incur debt or reduce our cash reserves, and those reserves may be reduced further in the future, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions. There is no assurance that our share repurchase program will enhance stockholder value and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness.. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected.. We are responsible for implementing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and are required, pursuant to Section 404, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment requires disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. While we have determined that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2017, as indicated in our Management's Report and Attestation Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, we must continue to monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting. If during the evaluation and testing process we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls or concludes that we have a material weakness in our internal controls, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner each year, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the NYSE or other regulatory authorities which would require additional financial and management resources and could adversely affect the market price of our stock.. In addition, implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may distract our officers and employees, entail substantial costs to implement new processes and modify our existing processes and take significant time to complete. Moreover, any such changes do not guarantee that we will be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and harm our business. Furthermore, investors' perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis may harm our stock price.. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain and Delaware law contains provisions, which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions:. •  creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms;. •  authorizing \"blank check\" preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock;. •  limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;. •  limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings;. 22. •  requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors;. •  controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings; and. •  providing our board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock.. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our common stock or do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced, to some extent, by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. We do not control these analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. If any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our common stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who covers us were to cease coverage of our Company or fail to publish reports on us regularly or if analysts elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future.. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock."
