[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before you decide to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K, including the disclosures in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\" We believe the risks described below are the risks that are material to us as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, you could experience a partial or complete loss of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may not be able to implement aspects of our expansion strategy, which may adversely affect our ability to maintain our historical earnings trends.. Our expansion strategy focuses on organic growth, supplemented by strategic acquisitions and expansion of the Bank's banking location network, or de novo branching.  We may not be able to execute on aspects of our expansion strategy, which may impair our ability to sustain our historical rate of growth or prevent us from growing at all.  More specifically, we may not be able to generate sufficient new loans and deposits within acceptable risk and expense tolerances, obtain the personnel or funding necessary for additional growth or find suitable acquisition candidates.  Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition with other financial institutions, may impede or prohibit the growth of our operations, the opening of new banking locations and the consummation of acquisitions.  Further, we may be unable to attract and retain experienced bankers, which could adversely affect our growth.  The success of our strategy also depends on our ability to effectively manage growth, which is dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to adapt our credit, operational, technology and governance infrastructure to accommodate expanded operations.  If we fail to implement one or more aspects of our strategy, we may be unable to maintain our historical earnings trends, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to manage the risks associated with our anticipated growth and expansion through de novo branching.. Our business strategy includes evaluating strategic opportunities to grow through de novo branching, and we believe that banking location expansion has been meaningful to our growth since inception.  De novo branching carries with it certain potential risks, including significant startup costs and anticipated initial operating losses; an inability to gain regulatory approval; an inability to secure the services of qualified senior management to operate the de novo banking location and successfully integrate and promote our corporate culture; poor market reception for de novo banking locations established in markets where we do not have a preexisting reputation; challenges posed by local economic conditions; challenges associated with securing attractive locations at a reasonable cost; and the additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls.  Failure to adequately manage the. 17. risks associated with our anticipated growth through de novo branching could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to overcome the integration and other risks associated with acquisitions, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy.. Although we plan to continue to grow our business organically and through de novo branching, we also intend to pursue acquisition opportunities that we believe complement our activities and have the ability to enhance our profitability and provide attractive risk-adjusted returns.  Our acquisition activities could be material to our business and involve a number of risks, including the following:. • intense competition from other banking organizations and other acquirers for potential merger candidates;. • market pricing for desirable acquisitions resulting in returns that are less attractive than we have traditionally sought to achieve;. • incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in our attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business;. • using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets;. • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses we acquire, including consumer compliance issues;. • the time and expense required to integrate the operations and personnel of the combined businesses;. • experiencing higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations;. • losing key employees and customers;. • reputational issues if the target's management does not align with our culture and values;. • significant problems relating to the conversion of the financial and customer data of the target;. • integration of acquired customers into our financial and customer product systems;. • risks of impairment to goodwill; or. • regulatory timeframes for review of applications may limit the number and frequency of transactions we may be able to consummate.. Depending on the condition of any institution or assets or liabilities that we may acquire, that acquisition may, at least in the near term, adversely affect our capital and earnings and, if not successfully integrated with our organization, may continue to have such effects over a longer period.  We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with pending or potential acquisitions, and any acquisition we may consider will be subject to prior regulatory approval.  Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A key piece of our expansion strategy is a focus on decision-making authority at the branch and market level, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected if our local teams do not follow our internal policies or are negligent in their decision-making.. In order to be able to provide the responsive and individualized customer service that distinguishes us from competitors and in order to attract and retain management talent, we empower our local management teams to make certain business decisions on the local level.  Lending authorities are assigned to branch presidents and their banking teams based on their experience, with all loan relationships in excess of internal specified maximums being reviewed by the Bank's Directors' Loan Committee, comprised of senior management of the Bank, or the Bank's board of directors, as the case may be.  Our local lenders may not follow our internal procedures or otherwise act in our best interests with respect to their decision-making.  A failure of our employees to follow our internal policies, or actions taken by our employees that are negligent or not in our best interests could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Difficult market conditions and economic trends have recently and adversely affected the banking industry and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future.. We are operating in an uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain conditions nationally and locally in our industry and markets.  Although economic conditions have improved in recent years, financial institutions continue to be affected by volatility in the real estate market in some parts of the country and uncertain. 18. regulatory and interest rate conditions.  We retain direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets in Texas and are affected by these events.  In addition, financial institutions in Texas can be affected by volatility with the oil and gas industry and significant decreases in energy prices.  Although we do not have material direct exposure to the oil and gas industry, we retain some indirect exposure, as some of our customers' businesses are directly affected by volatility with the oil and gas industry and energy prices.. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our loan portfolio is made more complex by uncertain market and economic conditions.  Another national economic downturn or deterioration of conditions in our markets could result in losses beyond those that are provided for in our allowance for loan losses and lead to the following consequences:. • increases in loan delinquencies;. • increases in non-performing assets and foreclosures;. • decreases in demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our liquidity position; and. • decreases in the value of the collateral securing our loans, especially real estate, which could reduce customers' borrowing power and repayment ability.. While economic conditions in Texas and the United States have improved in recent years, there can be no assurance that these conditions will continue to improve at a similar rate, or at all, or that an economic downturn will not occur again.  Although real estate markets have generally stabilized in portions of the United States, including Texas, a resumption of declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, volatility in the oil and gas industry and relatively low energy prices could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, including declines in real estate values and job losses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to adequately measure and limit our credit risk, which could lead to unexpected losses.. The business of lending is inherently risky, including risks that the principal of or interest on any loan will not be repaid timely or at all or that the value of any collateral supporting the loan will be insufficient to cover our outstanding exposure.  These risks may be affected by the strength of the borrower's business sector and local, regional and national market and economic conditions.  Many of our loans are made to small- to medium-sized businesses that may be less able to withstand competitive, economic and financial pressures than larger borrowers.  Our risk management practices, such as monitoring the concentration of our loans within specific industries and our credit approval practices, may not adequately reduce credit risk, and our credit administration personnel, policies and procedures may not adequately adapt to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting customers and the quality of the loan portfolio.  A failure to effectively measure and limit the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio could lead to unexpected losses and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent on the use of data and modeling in our management's decision-making, and faulty data or modeling approaches could negatively impact our decision-making ability or possibly subject us to regulatory scrutiny in the future.. The use of statistical and quantitative models and other quantitative analyses is endemic to bank decision-making, and the employment of such analyses is becoming increasingly widespread in our operations.  Liquidity stress testing, interest rate sensitivity analysis, and the identification of possible violations of anti-money laundering regulations are all examples of areas in which we are dependent on models and the data that underlies them.  The use of statistical and quantitative models is also becoming more prevalent in regulatory compliance. While we are not currently subject to annual Dodd-Frank Act stress testing, or DFAST, and the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, or CCAR, submissions, we anticipate that model-derived testing may become more extensively implemented by regulators in the future.. We anticipate data-based modeling will penetrate further into bank decision-making, particularly risk management efforts, as the capacities developed to meet rigorous stress testing requirements are able to be employed more widely and in differing applications.  While we believe these quantitative techniques and approaches improve our decision-making, they also create the possibility that faulty data or flawed quantitative approaches could negatively. 19. impact our decision-making ability or, if we become subject to regulatory stress-testing in the future, adverse regulatory scrutiny.  Secondarily, because of the complexity inherent in these approaches, misunderstanding or misuse of their outputs could similarly result in suboptimal decision-making.. The small- to medium-sized businesses that we lend to may have fewer resources to weather adverse business developments, which may impair our borrowers' ability to repay loans.. We focus our business development and marketing strategy primarily on small- to medium-sized businesses.  As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $782.4 million of loans to businesses, which represents approximately 57.6% of our total loan portfolio.  Small- to medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience substantial volatility in operating results, any of which may impair a borrower's ability to repay a loan.  In addition, the success of a small- and medium-sized business often depends on the management skills, talents and efforts of a small group of people, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these people could have an adverse effect on the business and its ability to repay its loan.  If our borrowers are unable to repay their loans, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our commercial real estate and real estate construction loan portfolio exposes us to credit risks that may be greater than the risks related to other types of loans.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $710.5 million, or 52.3%, of our total loans were nonresidential real estate loans (including owner occupied commercial real estate loans), which included approximately $196.8 million, or 14.5%, of our total loans, that were construction and land development loans.  These loans typically involve repayment dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service.  The availability of such income for repayment may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions.  These loans expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by other types of collateral because the collateral securing these loans is typically more difficult to liquidate due to the fluctuation of real estate values.  Additionally, non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans generally involve relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers.  Unexpected deterioration in the credit quality of our non-owner occupied commercial real estate loan portfolio could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Construction and land development loans also involve risks because loan funds are secured by a project under construction and the project is of uncertain value prior to its completion.  It can be difficult to accurately evaluate the total funds required to complete a project, and construction lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project rather than the ability of a borrower or guarantor to repay the loan.  If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, we may be unable to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan.  In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete a project, incur taxes, maintenance and compliance costs for a foreclosed property and may have to hold the property for an indeterminate period of time, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of real estate loans, negative changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity could impair the value of collateral securing our real estate loans and result in loan and other losses.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $1.08 billion, or 79.8%, of our total loans were loans with real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral.  Real estate values in many Texas markets have experienced periods of fluctuation over the last five years.  The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time.  As a result, adverse developments affecting real estate values and the liquidity of real estate in our primary markets or in Texas generally could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio, and could result in losses that adversely affect credit quality, financial condition and results of operations.  Negative changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity in our market areas could significantly impair the value of property pledged as collateral on loans and affect our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure without a loss or additional losses.  Collateral may have to be sold for less than the outstanding balance of the loan, which could result in losses on such loans.  Such declines and losses would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 20. Appraisals and other valuation techniques we use in evaluating and monitoring loans secured by real property, other real estate owned and repossessed personal property may not accurately describe the net value of the asset.. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal of the property.  However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made, and, as real estate values may change significantly in value in relatively short periods of time (especially in periods of heightened economic uncertainty), this estimate may not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral after the loan is made.  As a result, we may not be able to realize the full amount of any remaining indebtedness when we foreclose on and sell the relevant property.  In addition, we rely on appraisals and other valuation techniques to establish the value of our other real estate owned, or OREO, and personal property that we acquire through foreclosure proceedings and to determine certain loan impairments.  If any of these valuations are inaccurate, our combined and consolidated financial statements may not reflect the correct value of our OREO, and our allowance for loan losses may not reflect accurate loan impairments.  This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  As of December 31, 2017, we held OREO and repossessed property and equipment that was valued at $2.2 million and $2.5 million, respectively.. We engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral and own the underlying real estate, subjecting us to the costs and potential risks associated with the ownership of the real property, or consumer protection initiatives or changes in state or federal law may substantially raise the cost of foreclosure or prevent us from foreclosing at all.. Since we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we would be exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate.  As of December 31, 2017, we held approximately $2.2 million in OREO in a special purpose subsidiary that is currently marketed for sale.  The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to general or local economic condition, environmental cleanup liability, assessments, interest rates, real estate tax rates, operating expenses of the mortgaged properties, ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties, zoning laws, governmental and regulatory rules, and natural disasters.  Our inability to manage the amount of costs or size of the risks associated with the ownership of real estate, or writedowns in the value of other real estate owned, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, consumer protection initiatives or changes in state or federal law may substantially increase the time and expense associated with the foreclosure process or prevent us from foreclosing at all.  While historically Texas has had foreclosure laws that are favorable to lenders, a number of states in recent years have either considered or adopted foreclosure reform laws that make it substantially more difficult and expensive for lenders to foreclose on properties in default, and we cannot be certain that Texas will not adopt similar legislation in the future.  Additionally, federal regulators have prosecuted a number of mortgage servicing companies for alleged consumer law violations.  If new state or federal laws or regulations are ultimately enacted that significantly raise the cost of foreclosure or raise outright barriers, such could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. A portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial loans secured by receivables, inventory, equipment or other commercial collateral, the deterioration in value of which could expose us to credit losses.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $197.5 million, or 14.5%, of our total loans were commercial loans to businesses.  In general, these loans are collateralized by general business assets, including, among other things, accounts receivable, inventory and equipment, and most are backed by a personal guaranty of the borrower or principal.  These commercial loans are typically larger in amount than loans to individuals and, therefore, have the potential for larger losses on a single loan basis.  Additionally, the repayment of commercial loans is subject to the ongoing business operations of the borrower.  The collateral securing such loans generally includes moveable property such as equipment and inventory, which may decline in value more rapidly than we anticipate exposing us to increased credit risk.  In addition, a portion of our customer base, including customers in the energy and real estate business, may be in industries which are particularly sensitive to commodity prices or market fluctuations, such as energy prices.  Accordingly, negative changes in commodity prices and real estate values and liquidity could impair the value of the collateral securing these loans.  Significant adverse changes in the economy or local market conditions in which our commercial lending customers operate could cause rapid declines in loan collectability and the values associated with general business assets resulting in inadequate collateral coverage that may expose us to credit losses and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in our loan portfolio.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that represents management's judgment of probable losses and risks inherent in our loan portfolio.  As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses totaled $12.9 million, which represents approximately 0.95% of our total loans.  The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of general economic conditions, diversification and seasoning of the loan portfolio, historic loss experience, identified credit problems, delinquency levels and adequacy of collateral.  The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses is inherently highly subjective and requires us to make significant estimates of and assumptions regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Inaccurate management assumptions, deterioration of economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification or deterioration of additional problem loans, acquisition of problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses.  In addition, our regulators, as an integral part of their periodic examination, review our methodology for calculating, and the adequacy of, our allowance for loan losses and may direct us to make additions to the allowance based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examination.  Further, if actual charge-offs in future periods exceed the amounts allocated to the allowance for loan losses, we may need additional provisions for loan losses to restore the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses.  Finally, the measure of our allowance for loan losses is dependent on the adoption and interpretation of accounting standards.  The Financial Accounting Standards Board recently issued a new credit impairment model, the Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL model, which will become applicable to us on January 1, 2020, though we may choose to adopt CECL on January 1, 2019, or may be encouraged by our regulators to do so.  CECL will require financial institutions to estimate and develop a provision for credit losses at origination for the lifetime of the loan, as opposed to reserving for incurred or probable losses up to the balance sheet date.  Under the CECL model, credit deterioration would be reflected in the income statement in the period of origination or acquisition of the loan, with changes in expected credit losses due to further credit deterioration or improvement reflected in the periods in which the expectation changes.  Accordingly, the CECL model could require financial institutions like the Bank to increase their allowances for loan losses.  Moreover, the CECL model likely would create more volatility in our level of allowance for loan losses.  If we are required to materially increase our level of allowance for loan losses for any reason, such increase could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately and timely, in which case our business may be harmed, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, we could be subject to regulatory penalties and the price of our common stock may decline.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for evaluating and reporting on that system of internal control.  Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules that govern public companies.  In particular, we are required to certify our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act beginning with our second annual report on Form 10-K, which will require us to furnish annually a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.  In addition, unless we remain an emerging growth company and elect additional transitional relief available to emerging growth companies, our independent registered public accounting firm may be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning as of that second annual report on Form 10-K.. We will continue to periodically test and update, as necessary, our internal control systems, including our financial reporting controls.  Our actions, however, may not be sufficient to result in an effective internal control environment, and any future failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could impair the reliability of our financial statements which in turn could harm our business, impair investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and our access to the capital markets and cause the price of our common stock to decline and subject us to regulatory penalties.. We rely heavily on our executive management team and other key employees, and we could be adversely affected by the unexpected loss of their services.. Our success depends in large part on the performance of our executive management team and other key personnel, as well as on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified senior and middle management and. 22. other skilled employees.  Competition for qualified employees is intense, and the process of locating key personnel with the combination of skills, attributes and business relationships required to execute our business plan may be lengthy.  We may not be successful in retaining our key employees, and the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business because of their skills, knowledge of and business relationships within our primary markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.  If the services of any of our key personnel should become unavailable for any reason, we may not be able to identify and hire qualified persons on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. We earn income by originating residential mortgage loans for resale in the secondary mortgage market, and disruptions in that market could reduce our operating income.. Historically, we have earned income by originating mortgage loans for sale in the secondary market.  A historical focus of our loan origination and sales activities has been to enter into formal commitments and informal agreements with larger banking companies and mortgage investors.  Under these arrangements, we originate single family mortgages that are priced and underwritten to conform to previously agreed criteria before loan funding and are delivered to the investor shortly after funding.  For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we earned approximately $2.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively, from these activities.  However, in the recent past, disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for, and liquidity of, most mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, loans.   The effects of these disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans may reappear.. In addition, because government-sponsored entities like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, who account for a substantial portion of the secondary market, are governed by federal law, any future changes in laws that significantly affect the activity of these entities could, in turn, adversely affect our operations.  In September 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed into conservatorship by the federal government.  The federal government has for many years considered proposals to reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, but the results of any such reform and their impact on us are difficult to predict.   To date, no reform proposal has been enacted.. These disruptions may not only affect us but also the ability and desire of mortgage investors and other banks to purchase residential mortgage loans that we originate.  As a result, we may not be able to maintain or grow the income we receive from originating and reselling residential mortgage loans, which would reduce our operating income.  Additionally, we may be required to hold mortgage loans that we originated for sale, increasing our exposure to interest rate risk and the value of the residential real estate that serves as collateral for the mortgage loan.. Delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures in residential mortgages create a higher risk of repurchases and indemnity requests.. We originate residential mortgage loans for sale to government-sponsored enterprises, such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other investors.  As a part of this process, we make various representations and warranties to these purchasers that are tied to the underwriting standards under which the investors agreed to purchase the loan.  If a representation or warranty proves to be untrue, we could be required to repurchase one or more of the mortgage loans or indemnify the investor.  Repurchase and indemnity obligations tend to increase during weak economic times, as investors seek to pass on the risks associated with mortgage loan delinquencies to the originator of the mortgage. If we are forced to repurchase additional mortgage loans that we have previously sold to investors, or indemnify those investors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. A lack of liquidity could impair our ability to fund operations and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity is essential to our business.  We rely on our ability to generate deposits and effectively manage the repayment and maturity schedules of our loans and investment securities, respectively, to ensure that we have adequate liquidity to fund our operations.  An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of our investment securities, the sale of loans, and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity.. Our most important source of funds is deposits.  As of December 31, 2017, approximately $1.38 billion, or 82.3%, of our total deposits were demand, savings and money market accounts.  Historically our savings, money market deposit accounts and demand accounts have been stable sources of funds.  However, these deposits are subject to potentially dramatic fluctuations in availability or price due to certain factors that may be outside of our. 23. control, such as a loss of confidence by customers in us or the banking sector generally, customer perceptions of our financial health and general reputation, increasing competitive pressures from other financial services firms for consumer or corporate customer deposits, changes in interest rates and returns on other investment classes, which could result in significant outflows of deposits within short periods of time or significant changes in pricing necessary to maintain current customer deposits or attract additional deposits, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income.. The $296.8 million remaining balance of deposits consisted of certificates of deposit, of which $224.8 million, or 13.4% of our total deposits, were due to mature within one year.  Historically, a majority of our certificates of deposit are renewed upon maturity as long as we pay competitive interest rates.  These customers are, however, interest-rate conscious and may be willing to move funds into higher-yielding investment alternatives.  If customers transfer money out of the Bank's deposits and into other investments such as money market funds, we would lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income.. Other primary sources of funds consist of cash flows from operations, maturities and sales of investment securities, and proceeds from the issuance and sale of our equity and debt securities to investors.  Additional liquidity is provided by our ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas, or the FHLB.  We also may borrow funds from third-party lenders, such as other financial institutions.  Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities, or on terms that are acceptable to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry.  Our access to funding sources could also be affected by a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in Texas or by one or more adverse regulatory actions against us.. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available when needed or at all.. We may need to raise additional capital, in the form of additional debt or equity, in the future to have sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and fund our business needs and future growth, particularly if the quality of our assets or earnings were to deteriorate significantly.  Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial condition.  Economic conditions and a loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital, including interbank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve System.  We may not be able to obtain capital on acceptable terms  -  or at all.  Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of our bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets or other disruption in capital markets, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity.  Further, if we need to raise capital in the future, we may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would then have to compete with those institutions for investors.  An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We have a concentration of deposit accounts with state and local municipalities that is a material source of our funding, and the loss of these deposits or significant fluctuations in balances held by these public bodies could force us to fund our business through more expensive and less stable sources.. As of December 31, 2017, $287.6 million, or approximately 17.2%, of our total deposits consisted of deposit accounts of public bodies, such as state or local municipalities, or public funds.  These types of deposits are often secured and typically fluctuate on a seasonal basis due to timing differences between tax collection and expenditures.  Withdrawals of deposits or significant fluctuation in a material portion of our largest public fund depositors could force us to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding for our business and withdrawal demands, adversely affecting our net interest margin and results of operations.  We may also be forced, as a result of any withdrawal of deposits, to rely more heavily on other, potentially more expensive and less stable funding sources.  Consequently, the occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. We are subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings.. The majority of our banking assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates.  Like most financial institutions, our earnings are significantly dependent on our net interest income, the principal component of our earnings, which is the difference between interest earned by us from our interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest paid by us on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings.  We expect that we will periodically experience \"gaps\" in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa.   In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this \"gap\" will negatively impact our earnings.  The impact on earnings is more adverse when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term interest rates or when long-term interest rates decrease more than short-term interest rates.  Many factors impact interest rates, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply and international economic weakness and disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets.  As of December 31, 2017, approximately 46.87% of our interest-earning assets and approximately 57.39% of our interest-bearing liabilities had a variable rate.  Our interest rate sensitivity profile was asset sensitive as of December 31, 2017, meaning that we estimate our net interest income would increase more from rising interest rates than from falling interest rates.. Interest rate increases often result in larger payment requirements for our borrowers, which increases the potential for default and could result in a decrease in the demand for loans.  At the same time, the marketability of the property securing a loan may be adversely affected by any reduced demand resulting from higher interest rates.  In a declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on loans as borrowers refinance their loans at lower rates.  In addition, in a low interest rate environment, loan customers often pursue long-term fixed rate credits, which could adversely affect our earnings and net interest margin if rates increase.  Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans, securities and other assets.  An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.   Further, when we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse any accrued but unpaid interest receivable, which decreases interest income.  At the same time, we continue to have a cost to fund the loan, which is reflected as interest expense, without any interest income to offset the associated funding expense.  Thus, an increase in the amount of nonperforming assets would have an adverse impact on net interest income.  If short-term interest rates continue to remain at their historically low levels for a prolonged period and assuming longer-term interest rates fall further, we could experience net interest margin compression as our interest-earning assets would continue to reprice downward while our interest-bearing liability rates could fail to decline in tandem.  Such an occurrence would have an adverse effect on our net interest income and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is concentrated in, and largely dependent upon, the continued growth and welfare of our primary markets, and adverse economic conditions in these markets could negatively impact our operations and customers.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are affected by changes in the economic conditions of our primary markets of East Texas, Central Texas and the Dallas/Fort Worth metroplex.  Our success depends to a significant extent upon the business activity, population, income levels, employment trends, deposits and real estate activity in our primary markets.  Economic conditions within our primary markets, and the state of Texas in general, are influenced by the energy sector generally and the price of oil and gas specifically.  Although our customers' business and financial interests may extend well beyond our primary markets, adverse conditions that affect our primary markets, including future declines in oil prices, could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans, affect the value of collateral underlying our loans, affect our ability to attract deposits and generally affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.  Due to our geographic concentration within our primary markets, we may be less able than other larger regional or national financial institutions to diversify our credit risks across multiple markets.. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services.. We operate in the highly competitive financial services industry and face significant competition for customers from financial institutions located both within and beyond our principal markets.  We compete with commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, nonbank financial services companies and other financial institutions operating within. 25. or near the areas we serve.  Additionally, certain large banks headquartered outside of our markets and large community banking institutions target the same customers we do.  In addition, as customer preferences and expectations continue to evolve, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the internet and for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems.  The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology, and, as a result, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers' needs by using technology.  Customer loyalty can be influenced by a competitor's new products, especially offerings that could provide cost savings or a higher return to the customer.  Increased lending activity of competing banks following the recent downturn has also led to increased competitive pressures on loan rates and terms for high-quality credits.  We may not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our markets, and we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, accept lower yields to attract loans and pay higher wages for new employees, resulting in lower net interest margins and reduced profitability.. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our activities and may have greater flexibility in competing for business.  The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation.  In addition, some of our current commercial banking customers may seek alternative banking sources as they develop needs for credit facilities larger than we may be able to accommodate.  Our inability to compete successfully in the markets in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our trust and wealth management division derives its revenue from noninterest income and is subject to operational, compliance, reputational, fiduciary and strategic risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our trust and wealth management division subjects us to a number of different risks from our commercial activities, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Operational or compliance risk entails inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or changes driven by external events.  Success in the trust and wealth management business is highly dependent on reputation.  Damage to our reputation from negative opinion in the marketplace could adversely impact both revenue and net income.  Such results could also be affected by errors in judgment by management or the board, the improper implementation of business decisions or by unexpected external events.  Our success in this division is also dependent upon our continuing ability to generate investment results that satisfy our clients and attract prospective clients, which may be adversely impacted by factors that are outside of our control.  In addition, our trust and wealth management division is subject to fiduciary risks and risks associated with adverse decisions regarding the scope of fiduciary liabilities.  If any claims or legal actions regarding our fiduciary role are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, we may be exposed to significant financial liability and our reputation could be damaged.  Either of these results may adversely impact demand for our products and services, including those unrelated to our trust and wealth management division, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation.. Additional risks resulting from our mortgage warehouse lending business could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A portion of our lending involves the origination of mortgage warehouse lines of credit.  Risks associated with our mortgage warehouse loans include credit risks relating to the mortgage bankers that borrow from us, including the risk of intentional misrepresentation or fraud; changes in the market value of mortgage loans originated by the mortgage banker, the sale of which is the expected source of repayment of the borrowings under a warehouse line of credit, due to changes in interest rates during the time in warehouse; and originations of mortgage loans that are unsalable or impaired, which could lead to decreased collateral value and the failure of a purchaser of the mortgage loan to ultimately purchase the loan from the mortgage banker.  Any one or a combination of these events may adversely affect our loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. New lines of business, products, product enhancements or services may subject us to additional risks.. From time to time, we implement new lines of business, or offer new products and product enhancements as well as new services within our existing lines of business and we will continue to do so in the future.  For example, in 2017, we established our Small Business Association lending division.  We also have plans to enhance our trust and wealth management division.  There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed.  In implementing, developing or marketing new lines of business,. 26. products, product enhancements or services, we may invest significant time and resources, although we may not assign the appropriate level of resources or expertise necessary to make these new lines of business, products, product enhancements or services successful or to realize their expected benefits.  Further, initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business, products, product enhancements or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible.  External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the ultimate implementation of a new line of business or offerings of new products, product enhancements or services.  Furthermore, any new line of business, product, product enhancement or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls.  Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or offerings of new products, product enhancements or services could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Negative public opinion regarding our company or failure to maintain our reputation in the communities we serve could adversely affect our business and prevent us from growing our business.. As a community bank, our reputation within the communities we serve is critical to our success.  We believe we have set ourselves apart from our competitors by building strong personal and professional relationships with our customers and being active members of the communities we serve.  As such, we strive to enhance our reputation by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve and delivering superior service to our customers.  If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our employees or otherwise, we may be less successful in attracting new talent and customers or may lose existing customers, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  Further, negative public opinion can expose us to litigation and regulatory action and delay and impede our efforts to implement our expansion strategy, which could further adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We could recognize losses on investment securities held in our securities portfolio, particularly if interest rates increase or economic and market conditions deteriorate.. While we attempt to invest a significant majority of our total assets in loans (our loan to asset ratio was 69.27% as of December 31, 2017), we invest a percentage of our total assets (20.74% as of December 31, 2017) in investment securities with the primary objectives of providing a source of liquidity, providing an appropriate return on funds invested, managing interest rate risk, meeting pledging requirements and meeting regulatory capital requirements.  As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of our available for sale investment securities portfolio was $232.4 million, which included a net unrealized loss of $3.5 million.  Factors beyond our control can significantly and adversely influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio.   For example, fixed-rate securities are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise.  Additional factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or individual borrowers with respect to the underlying securities, and instability in the credit markets.  Any of the foregoing factors could cause other-than-temporary impairment in future periods and result in realized losses.  The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting interest rates, the financial condition of issuers of the securities and the performance of the underlying collateral, we may recognize realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected if the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies are inaccurate.. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.  Our critical accounting policies, which are included in the section captioned \"Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that we consider \"critical\" because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially affect our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.  As a result, if future events or regulatory views concerning such analysis differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, those events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, in each case resulting in our needing to revise or restate prior period financial statements,. 27. cause damage to our reputation and the price of our common stock, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There could be material changes to our financial statements and disclosures if there are changes in accounting standards or regulatory interpretations of existing standards. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements.  Such changes may result in us being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards.  In addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how new or existing standards should be applied.  These changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently and retrospectively, in each case resulting in our needing to revise or restate prior period financial statements, which could materially change our financial statements and related disclosures, cause damage to our reputation and the price of our common stock, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations could be interrupted if our third-party service providers experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking regulations.. We outsource some of our operational activities and accordingly depend on a number of relationships with third-party service providers.  Specifically, we rely on third parties for certain services, including, but not limited to, core systems support, informational website hosting, internet services, online account opening and other processing services.  Our business depends on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers.  The failure of these systems, a cyber security breach involving any of our third-party service providers, or the termination or change in terms of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations.  Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions.  Replacing vendors or addressing other issues with our third-party service providers could entail significant delay, expense and disruption of service.. As a result, if these third-party service providers experience difficulties, are subject to cyber security breaches, or terminate their services, and we are unable to replace them with other service providers, particularly on a timely basis, our operations could be interrupted.  If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  Even if we are able to replace third-party service providers, it may be at a higher cost to us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the Bank's primary federal regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or OCC, has recently issued guidance outlining the expectations for third-party service provider oversight and monitoring by financial institutions.  The federal banking agencies, including the OCC, have recently issued enforcement actions against financial institutions for failure in oversight of third-party providers and violations of federal banking law by such providers when performing services for financial institutions.  Accordingly, our operations could be interrupted if any of our third-party service providers experience difficulty, are subject to cyber security breaches, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking regulations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, our failure to adequately oversee the actions of our third-party service providers could result in regulatory actions against the Bank, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. System failure or cyber security breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other potential losses.. Our computer systems and network infrastructure could be vulnerable to hardware and cyber security issues.  Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event.  We could also experience a breach by intentional or negligent conduct on the part of employees or other internal sources.  Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer systems and network infrastructure, including our digital, mobile and internet banking activities, against damage from physical break-ins, cyber security breaches and. 28. other disruptive problems caused by the internet or other users.  Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability, damage our reputation and inhibit the use of our internet banking services by current and potential customers.  We regularly add additional security measures to our computer systems and network infrastructure to mitigate the possibility of cyber security breaches, including firewalls and penetration testing.  However, it is difficult or impossible to defend against every risk being posed by changing technologies as well as acts of cyber-crime.  Increasing sophistication of cyber criminals and terrorists make keeping up with new threats difficult and could result in a system breach.  Controls employed by our information technology department and cloud vendors could prove inadequate.  A breach of our security that results in unauthorized access to our data could expose us to a disruption or challenges relating to our daily operations, as well as to data loss, litigation, damages, fines and penalties, significant increases in compliance costs and reputational damage, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have a continuing need for technological change, and we may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology, or we may experience operational challenges when implementing new technology or technology needed to compete effectively with larger institutions may not be available to us on a cost effective basis.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services.  In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs.  Our future success will depend, at least in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we continue to grow and expand our products and service offerings.  We may experience operational challenges as we implement these new technology enhancements or products, which could impair our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from such new technology or require us to incur significant costs to remedy any such challenges in a timely manner.. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements.  Third parties upon which we rely for our technology needs may not be able to develop on a cost effective basis systems that will enable us to keep pace with such developments.  As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products compared to those that we will be able to provide, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage.  We may lose customers seeking new technology-driven products and services to the extent we are unable to provide such products and services.  Accordingly, the ability to keep pace with technological change is important and the failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer, employee or third-party fraud and data processing system failures and errors.. Employee errors and employee or customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation.  Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information.  It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.  Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence.. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud, as well as insurance coverage designed to protect us from material losses associated with these risks, including losses resulting from any associated business interruption.  If our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in credit applications, property appraisals, title information, equipment pricing and valuation and employment and income documentation, in deciding which loans we will originate, as well as the terms of those loans.  If any of the information upon which we rely is misrepresented, either fraudulently or inadvertently, and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected, or we may fund a loan that we would not have funded or on terms we would not have extended.  Whether a misrepresentation is made by the applicant or another third party, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation.  A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsellable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation.  The sources of the misrepresentations are often difficult to locate, and it is often difficult to recover. 29. any of the resulting monetary losses we may suffer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our primary markets are susceptible to natural disasters and other catastrophes that could negatively impact the economies of our markets, our operations or our customers, any of which could have an adverse effect on us.. A significant portion of our business is generated from our primary markets of East Texas, Central Texas and the Dallas/Fort Worth metroplex, which are susceptible to damage by tornadoes, floods, droughts and other natural disasters and adverse weather.  In addition to natural disasters, man-made events, such as acts of terror and governmental response to acts of terror, malfunction of the electronic grid and other infrastructure breakdowns, could adversely affect economic conditions in our primary markets.  These catastrophic events can disrupt our operations, cause widespread property damage, and severely depress the local economies in which we operate.  If the economies in our primary markets experience an overall decline as a result of a catastrophic event, demand for loans and our other products and services could be reduced.  In addition, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses on loan portfolios may increase substantially, as uninsured property losses or sustained job interruption or loss may materially impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans.  Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures the loans could be materially and adversely affected by a catastrophic event.  A natural disaster or other catastrophic event could, therefore, result in decreased revenue and loan losses that have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to environmental liabilities in connection with the real properties we own and the foreclosure on real estate assets securing our loan portfolio.. In the course of our business, we may purchase real estate in connection with our acquisition and expansion efforts, or we may foreclose on and take title to real estate or otherwise be deemed to be in control of property that serves as collateral on loans we make.  As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to those properties.  We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or we may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property.  The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial.  In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property.. The cost of removal or abatement may substantially exceed the value of the affected properties or the loans secured by those properties, we may not have adequate remedies against the prior owners or other responsible parties and we may not be able to resell the affected properties either before or after completion of any such removal or abatement procedures.  If material environmental problems are discovered before foreclosure, we generally will not foreclose on the related collateral or will transfer ownership of the loan to a subsidiary.  It should be noted, however, that the transfer of the property or loans to a subsidiary may not protect us from environmental liability.  Furthermore, despite these actions on our part, the value of the property as collateral will generally be substantially reduced or we may elect not to foreclose on the property and, as a result, we may suffer a loss upon collection of the loan.  Any significant environmental liabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to intellectual property.. Banking and other financial services companies, such as our company, rely on technology companies to provide information technology products and services necessary to support their day-to-day operations.  Technology companies frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights.  In addition, patent holding companies seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained.  Competitors of our vendors, or other individuals or companies, may from time to time claim to hold intellectual property sold to us by our vendors.  Such claims may increase in the future as the financial services sector becomes more reliant on information technology vendors.  The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages.. Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or other intellectual property rights, or the merits of any claims by potential or actual litigants, we may have to engage in protracted litigation.  Such litigation is often expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to our operations and distracting to management.  If we are found to infringe one or more. 30. patents or other intellectual property rights, we may be required to pay substantial damages or royalties to a third party.  In certain cases, we may consider entering into licensing agreements for disputed intellectual property, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur.  These licenses may also significantly increase our operating expenses. If legal matters related to intellectual property claims were resolved against us or settled, we could be required to make payments in amounts that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the goodwill that we have recorded or may record in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could require charges to earnings.. Goodwill represents the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeded the fair value of net assets we acquired in connection with the purchase of another financial institution.  We review goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if a triggering event occurs which indicates that the carrying value of the asset might be impaired.. Our goodwill impairment test involves a two-step process.  Under the first step, the estimation of fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying value including goodwill.  If step one indicates a potential impairment, the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment, if any.  If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  Any such adjustments are reflected in our results of operations in the periods in which they become known.  As of December 31, 2017, our goodwill totaled $18.7 million.  While we have not recorded any impairment charges since we initially recorded the goodwill, there can be no assurance that our future evaluations of our existing goodwill or goodwill we may acquire in the future will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws.. The enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, on December 22, 2017 made significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code, many of which are highly complex and may require interpretations and implementing regulations.  As a result of the TCJA's reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, we recorded a one-time, non-cash charge to income tax provision of $1.7 million during the fourth quarter of 2017 to reduce the value of our net deferred tax assets.  See \"Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Income Tax Expense.\"  Furthermore, we may incur additional meaningful expenses (including professional fees) as the TCJA is implemented, and the expected impact of certain aspects of the statute remains unclear and subject to change.. The TCJA includes a number of provisions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for residential real estate. These changes include: (i) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (ii) the elimination of interest deductions for home equity loans, (iii) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, and (iv) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes.  The TCJA may have an adverse effect on the market for and the valuation of residential properties, as well as on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments.  The value of the properties securing loans in our loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership.  Such an impact could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to the Proposed Acquisition of Westbound Bank. The merger may not be consummated unless important conditions are satisfied.. Guaranty and Westbound Bank expect the merger to close during the second quarter of 2018, but the acquisition is subject to a number of closing conditions.  Satisfaction of many of these conditions is beyond the control of Guaranty and Westbound Bank.  If these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the merger will not be completed or may be delayed and each of Guaranty and Westbound Bank may lose some or all of the intended benefits of the merger.  Certain of the conditions that remain to be satisfied include, but are not limited to:. • the continued accuracy of the representations and warranties made by the parties in the merger agreement;. • the performance by each party of its respective obligations under the merger agreement;. 31. • the receipt of required regulatory approvals, including the approval of the OCC;. • the absence of any injunction, order or decree restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the merger;. • the absence of any material adverse change with respect to Guaranty, Guaranty Bank & Trust and Westbound Bank;. • receipt by Guaranty and Westbound Bank from their respective tax counsel of a federal tax opinion that the merger will qualify as a \"reorganization\" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code;. • the effectiveness of the registration statement covering the shares of Guaranty common stock that are expected to be issued to Westbound Bank's shareholders as a portion of the consideration for the merger; and. • the approval by Westbound Bank's shareholders of the merger agreement and the merger.. As a result of the aforementioned conditions, the merger may not close as scheduled, or at all.  In addition, either Guaranty or Westbound Bank may terminate the merger agreement under certain circumstances.. Regulatory approval may not be received, may take longer than expected or may impose conditions that Guaranty does not anticipate or cannot be met.. Before the merger may be completed, prior approval must be obtained from the OCC.  The OCC may impose conditions on the completion of, or require changes to the terms of, the merger.  Such conditions or changes and the process of obtaining regulatory approval could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or of imposing additional costs or limitations on Guaranty following the completion of the merger.  The regulatory approval may not be received at all, may not be received in a timely fashion or may contain conditions on the completion of the merger that are burdensome, not anticipated or cannot be met.  If the completion of the merger is delayed, including by a delay in receipt of necessary approval from the OCC, the business, financial condition and results of operations of Guaranty and Westbound Bank may also be materially adversely affected.. The merger could result in unexpected disruptions on the combined business.. In response to the announcement of the merger, Westbound Bank's customers may cease or reduce their business with Westbound Bank, which could negatively affect Guaranty's and Westbound Bank's combined business operations.  Similarly, current or prospective employees of Guaranty or Westbound Bank may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined entity.  This may adversely affect Guaranty's or Westbound Bank's ability to attract and retain key management, banking and other personnel.  In addition, the diversion of the attention of Guaranty's and Westbound Bank's respective management teams away from day-to-day operations during the negotiation and pendency of the merger could have an adverse effect on the financial condition and operating results of either Guaranty or Westbound Bank.. Guaranty may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on Guaranty's ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining its business with Westbound Bank's business.  However, to realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, Guaranty must successfully combine both businesses.  If Guaranty is unable to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than Guaranty expects.. Guaranty will incur significant transaction and merger-related integration costs in connection with the merger.. Guaranty expects to incur significant costs associated with completing the merger and integrating Westbound Bank's operations into Guaranty's operations and is continuing to assess the impact of these costs.  Although Guaranty believes that the elimination of duplicate costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of Westbound Bank's business with Guaranty's business, will offset incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.. 32. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Industry. The ongoing implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, and the process of implementation is ongoing.  The Dodd-Frank Act imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes on many industries, including ours.  There remains significant uncertainty surrounding the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will ultimately be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and the full extent of the impact of the requirements on our operations is unclear, especially in light of the Trump administration's executive order calling for a full review of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated under it.  The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, require the development of new compliance infrastructure, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business.  These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements.  Failure to comply with the new requirements or with any future changes in laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and accounting principles, or changes in them, or our failure to comply with them, could adversely affect us.. Banking is highly regulated under federal and state law.  As such, we are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and legal requirements that govern almost all aspects of our operations.  These laws and regulations are not intended to protect our shareholders.  Rather, these laws and regulations are intended to protect customers, depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund and the overall financial stability of the United States.  These laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on the business activities in which we can engage, limit the dividend or distributions that the Bank can pay to us, restrict the ability of institutions to guarantee our debt and impose certain specific accounting requirements on us that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than GAAP would require.  Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes to laws and regulations often impose additional operating costs.  Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure follows good faith effort or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, enforcement actions and fines and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, regulatory capital levels and the price of our securities.  Further, any new laws, rules and regulations, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Federal banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which we are or become subject as a result of such examinations could adversely affect us.. As part of the bank regulatory process, the OCC and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or Federal Reserve, periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations.  If, as a result of an examination, one of these federal banking agencies were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, asset sensitivity, risk management or other aspects of any of our operations have become unsatisfactory, or that our Company, the Bank or their respective management were in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate.  These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital levels, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against us, the Bank or their respective officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate the Bank's deposit insurance. If we become subject to such regulatory actions, our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected.. 33. We recently became subject to more stringent capital requirements, which may result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, limit our ability to repurchase shares or pay dividends and discretionary bonuses, or result in regulatory action.. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal banking agencies to establish stricter risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits to apply to banks and bank and savings and loan holding companies.  In July 2013, the federal banking agencies published new capital rules, referred to herein as the Basel III capital rules, which revised their risk-based and leverage capital requirements and their method for calculating risk-weighted assets.  The Basel III capital rules apply to all bank holding companies with $1.0 billion or more in consolidated assets and all banks regardless of size.  The Basel III capital rules became effective as applied to us on January 1, 2015, with a phase-in period for the new capital conservation buffer that generally extends from January 1, 2015 through January 1, 2019.  See the section in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K captioned \"Supervision and Regulation  -  Guaranty Bancshares, Inc.  -  New Rules on Regulatory Capital.\". As a result of the enactment of the Basel III capital rules, we became subject to increased required capital levels.  Our inability to comply with these more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity; require the raising of additional capital; limit our ability to repurchase shares or pay dividends and discretionary bonuses; or result in regulatory actions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Many of our new activities and expansion plans require regulatory approvals, and failure to obtain them may restrict our growth.. We intend to complement and expand our business by pursuing strategic acquisitions of financial institutions and other complementary businesses.  Generally, we must receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire an FDIC-insured depository institution or related business.  In determining whether to approve a proposed acquisition, federal banking regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, our financial condition, our future prospects, and the impact of the proposal on U.S. financial stability.  The regulators also review current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience and integrity of management and its record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act, or the CRA) and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities.  Such regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all.  We may also be required to sell banking locations as a condition to receiving regulatory approval, which condition may not be acceptable to us or, if acceptable to us, may reduce the benefit of any acquisition.. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, as opportunities arise, we plan to continue de novo branching as a part of our expansion strategy.  De novo branching and acquisitions carry with them numerous risks, including the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals.  The failure to obtain these regulatory approvals for potential future strategic acquisitions and de novo banking locations could impact our business plans and restrict our growth.. Financial institutions, such as the Bank, face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, or the USA PATRIOT Act, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate.  The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or the Treasury Department, to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and the Internal Revenue Service.  There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the sanctions programs and rules administered and enforced by the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control.. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, we have dedicated significant resources to our anti-money laundering program.  If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we could be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to. 34. pay dividends and the inability to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plans, including acquisitions and de novo branching.. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, the U.S. Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations.  The CFPB was created under the Dodd-Frank Act to centralize responsibility for consumer financial protection with broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of federal consumer financial laws with respect to all financial institutions that offer financial products and services to consumers.  The CFPB is also authorized to prescribe rules applicable to any covered person or service provider, identifying and prohibiting acts or practices that are \"unfair, deceptive, or abusive\" in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service.  The ongoing broad rulemaking powers of the CFPB have potential to have a significant impact on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services.  The CFPB has indicated that it may propose new rules on overdrafts and other consumer financial products or services, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if any such rules limit our ability to provide such financial products or services.. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the CRA, fair lending or consumer lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, restrictions on expansion, and restrictions on entering new business lines.  Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation.  Such actions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums could adversely affect our earnings and results of operations.. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance.  As a result of economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has in recent years increased deposit insurance assessment rates, which in turn raised deposit premiums for many insured depository institutions.  In 2010, the FDIC increased the Deposit Insurance Fund's target reserve ratio to 2.0% of insured deposits following the Dodd-Frank Act's elimination of the 1.5% cap on the insurance fund's reserve ratio, and the FDIC as put in place a restoration plan to restore the Deposit Insurance Fund to its 1.35% minimum reserve ratio managed by the Dodd-Frank Act by September 30, 2020.  If recent increases in premiums are insufficient for the Deposit Insurance Fund to meet its funding requirements, further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums may be required.  Further, if there are additional financial institution failures that affect the Deposit Insurance Fund, we may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums.  Our FDIC insurance related costs were $671,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $1.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, and $743,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015.  Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums could adversely affect our earnings and results of operations.. The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support the Bank.. The Federal Reserve requires a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to support its subsidiary banks.  Under the \"source of strength\" doctrine that was codified by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank at times when the bank holding company may not be inclined to do so and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank.  Accordingly, we could be required to provide financial assistance to the Bank if it experiences financial distress.. A capital injection may be required at a time when our resources are limited, and we may be required to borrow the funds or raise capital to make the required capital injection.  Any loan by a bank holding company to its subsidiary bank is subordinate in right with payment to deposits and certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank.  In the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank.  Moreover,. 35. bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the holding company's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of any note obligations.  Thus, any borrowing by a bank holding company for the purpose of making a capital injection to a subsidiary bank often becomes more difficult and expensive relative to other corporate borrowings.. We could be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships.  We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients.  Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client.  In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when our collateral cannot be foreclosed upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due.  Any such losses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve.  An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the U.S. money supply and credit conditions.  Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market purchases and sales of securities by the Federal Reserve, adjustments of both the discount rate and the federal funds rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits.  These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits.  Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits.. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future.  Although we cannot determine the effects of such policies on us at this time, such policies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to commercial real estate lending guidance issued by the federal banking regulators that impacts our operations and capital requirements.. The federal banking regulators have issued guidance regarding concentrations in commercial real estate lending directed at institutions that have particularly high concentrations of commercial real estate loans within their lending portfolios.  This guidance suggests that institutions whose commercial real estate loans exceed certain percentages of capital should implement heightened risk management practices appropriate to their concentration risk and may be required to maintain higher capital ratios than institutions with lower concentrations in commercial real estate lending.  Based on our commercial real estate concentration as of December 31, 2017, we believe that we are operating within the guidelines.  However, increases in our commercial real estate lending, particularly as we expand into metropolitans markets and make more of these loans, could subject us to additional supervisory analysis.  We cannot guarantee that any risk management practices we implement will be effective to prevent losses relating to our commercial real estate portfolio.  Management has implemented controls to monitor our commercial real estate lending concentrations, but we cannot predict the extent to which this guidance will impact our operations or capital requirements.. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be subject to substantial fluctuations, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares at the volume, prices and times desired.. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile, which may make it difficult for you to resell your shares at the volume, prices and times desired.  There are many factors that may affect the market price and trading volume of our common stock, including, without limitation:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, financial condition or asset quality;. • changes in economic or business conditions;. 36. • the effects of, and changes in, trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve;. • publication of research reports about us, our competitors, or the financial services industry generally, or changes in, or failure to meet, securities analysts' estimates of our financial and operating performance, or lack of research reports by industry analysts or ceasing of coverage;. • operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deemed comparable to us;. • additional or anticipated sales of our common stock or other securities by us or our existing shareholders;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • perceptions in the marketplace regarding our competitors or us, including the perception that investment in Texas is unattractive or less attractive during periods of low oil prices;. • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving our competitors or us;. • other economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory and technological factors affecting our operations, pricing, products and services; and. • other news, announcements or disclosures (whether by us or others) related to us, our competitors, our primary markets or the financial services industry.. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks have experienced substantial fluctuations in recent years, which in many cases have been unrelated to the operating performance and prospects of particular companies.  In addition, significant fluctuations in the trading volume in our common stock may cause significant price variations to occur.  Increased market volatility may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, which could make it difficult to sell your shares at the volume, prices and times desired.. The market price of our common stock could decline significantly due to actual or anticipated issuances or sales of our common stock in the future.. We may issue shares of our common stock or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments and pursuant to compensation and incentive plans.  If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our common stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial.  We may also grant registration rights covering those shares of our common stock or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock.  Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares of our common stock issued in connection with an acquisition or under a compensation or incentive plan), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of our securities.. Securities analysts may not initiate or continue coverage on us.. The trading market for our common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business.  We do not have any control over these securities analysts, and they may not cover us.  If one or more of these analysts cease to cover us or fail to publish regular reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price or trading volume of our common stock to decline.  If we are covered by securities analysts and are the subject of an unfavorable report, the price of our common stock may decline.. Our management and board of directors have significant control over our business.. As of December 31, 2017, our Company directors, Bank directors and named executive officers beneficially owned an aggregate of 3,068,763 shares, or approximately 27.8%, of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, including 316,432 shares that are held by our KSOP and allocated to the accounts of our named executive officers.  As of December 31, 2017, our KSOP owned an aggregate of 1,314,277 shares, or approximately 11.9% of our issued and outstanding shares.  A committee consisting of four independent directors of the Company, which we refer to herein as the KSOP Committee, currently serves as trustee of the KSOP.  Each KSOP participant will have the right to vote the shares allocated to such participant's account on all matters requiring a vote of our shareholders, but the KSOP committee, as trustee of the KSOP, retains sole voting power over all shares held by the KSOP that are not allocated to participants' accounts and all shares for which they have received no voting instructions from the. 37. participant.  As of December 31, 2017, there were no shares owned by our KSOP that were unallocated to participants' accounts.. As a result of their significant control over our business, our management and board of directors may be able to significantly affect the outcome of the election of directors and the potential outcome of other matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, such as mergers, the sale of substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary corporate matters.  The interests of these insiders could conflict with the interests of our other shareholders, including you.. The holders of our existing debt obligations, as well as debt obligations that may be outstanding in the future, will have priority over our common stock with respect to payment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up and with respect to the payment of interest.. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, our common stock would rank below all claims of debt holders against us.  As of December 31, 2017, we had a senior, unsecured line of credit with an available balance of $25.0 million, but no amounts advanced, we had $3.5 million of subordinated debt obligations and approximately $10.3 million of junior subordinated debentures issued to statutory trusts that, in turn, issued $10.0 million of trust preferred securities.  Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by us.  Our debt obligations are senior to our shares of common stock.  As a result, we must make payments on our debt obligations before any dividends can be paid on our common stock.  In the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of our debt obligations must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of our common stock.  We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of our common stock.  To the extent that we issue additional debt obligations or junior subordinated debentures, the additional debt obligations or additional junior subordinated debentures will be of equal rank with, or senior to, our existing debt obligations and senior to our shares of common stock.. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future, which could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our common stock, which could depress the price of our common stock.. Our certificate of formation authorizes us to issue up to 15,000,000 shares of one or more series of preferred stock.  Our board of directors has the authority to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our shareholders.  Our preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our common stock.  The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discouraging bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price, and materially adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock.. We are an emerging growth company, and the reduced regulatory and reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act.  For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company we may to take advantage of reduced regulatory and reporting requirements that are otherwise generally applicable to public companies.  These include, without limitation, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced financial reporting requirements, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation, and exemptions from the requirements of holding non-binding advisory votes on executive compensation and golden parachute payments.  The JOBS Act also permits an emerging growth company such as us to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies.  However, we have irrevocably \"opted out\" of this provision, and we will comply with new or revised accounting standards to the same extent that compliance is required for non-emerging growth companies.. We may take advantage of these provisions for up to five years, unless we earlier cease to be an emerging growth company, which would occur if our annual gross revenues exceed $1.0 billion, if we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt in a three-year period or if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of any June 30, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31.  Investors may find our common stock less attractive because we intend to rely on certain of these exemptions, which may result in a less active trading market and increased volatility in our stock price.. 38. We are dependent upon the Bank for cash flow, and the Bank's ability to make cash distributions is restricted.. Our primary tangible asset is Guaranty Bank & Trust.  As such, we depend upon the Bank for cash distributions (through dividends on the Bank's common stock) that we use to pay our operating expenses, satisfy our obligations (including our subordinated debentures and our other debt obligations) and to pay dividends on our common stock.  Federal statutes, regulations and policies restrict the Bank's ability to make cash distributions to us.  These statutes and regulations require, among other things, that the Bank maintain certain levels of capital in order to pay a dividend.  Further, the OCC has the ability to restrict the Bank's payment of dividends by supervisory action.  If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we will not be able to satisfy our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock.. Our dividend policy may change without notice, and our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions.. We anticipate that dividends will be declared and paid in the month following the end of each calendar quarter, and we anticipate paying a quarterly dividend on our common stock in an amount equal to approximately 25.0% to 30.0% of our net income for the immediately preceding quarter.  However, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive only such cash dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments.  Any declaration and payment of dividends on common stock will depend upon our earnings and financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements, the general economic and regulatory climate, our ability to service any equity or debt obligations senior to the common stock and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors.  Furthermore, consistent with our strategic plans, growth initiatives, capital availability, projected liquidity needs and other factors, we have made, and will continue to make, capital management decisions and policies that could adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, paid to our common shareholders.. The Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy in relation to the organization's overall asset quality, current and prospective earnings and level, composition and quality of capital.  The guidance provides that we inform and consult with the Federal Reserve prior to declaring and paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid or that could result in an adverse change to our capital structure, including interest on the subordinated debentures underlying our trust preferred securities and our other debt obligations.  If required payments on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures, held by our unconsolidated subsidiary trusts, or our other debt obligations, are not made or are deferred, or dividends on any preferred stock we may issue are not paid, we will be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock.. Our corporate organizational documents and provisions of federal and state law to which we are subject contain certain provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, make more difficult or prevent an attempted acquisition that you may favor or an attempted replacement of our board of directors or management.. Our certificate of formation and our bylaws (each as amended and restated) may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change of control or a replacement of our board of directors or management.  Our governing documents include provisions that:. • empower our board of directors, without shareholder approval, to issue our preferred stock, the terms of which, including voting power, are to be set by our board of directors;. • divide our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms;. • provide that directors may only be removed from office for cause and only upon a majority shareholder vote;. • eliminate cumulative voting in elections of directors;. • permit our board of directors to alter, amend or repeal our amended and restated bylaws or to adopt new bylaws;. • require the request of holders of at least 50.0% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote at a meeting to call a special shareholders' meeting;. • prohibit shareholder action by less than unanimous written consent, thereby requiring virtually all actions to be taken at a meeting of the shareholders;. • require shareholders that wish to bring business before annual or special meetings of shareholders, or to nominate candidates for election as directors at our annual meeting of shareholders, to provide timely notice of their intent in writing; and. • enable our board of directors to increase, between annual meetings, the number of persons serving as directors and to fill the vacancies created as a result of the increase by a majority vote of the directors present at a meeting of directors.. 39. In addition, certain provisions of Texas law, including a provision which restricts certain business combinations between a Texas corporation and certain affiliated shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control.  Furthermore, banking laws impose notice, approval, and ongoing regulatory requirements on any shareholder or other party that seeks to acquire direct or indirect \"control\" of an FDIC-insured depository institution or its holding company.  These laws include the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or the BHC Act, and the Change in Bank Control Act, or the CBCA. These laws could delay or prevent an acquisition.. Furthermore, our amended and restated certificate of formation provides that the state courts located in Titus County, Texas, the county in which our headquarters in Mount Pleasant lie, will be the exclusive forum for: (a) any actual or purported derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (b) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty by any of our directors or officers, (c) any action asserting a claim against us or our directors or officers arising pursuant to the TBOC, our certificate of formation, or our bylaws; or (d) any action asserting a claim against us or our officers or directors that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine.  By becoming a shareholder of our Company, you will be deemed to have notice of and have consented to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of formation related to choice of forum.  The choice of forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of formation may limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.  Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our amended and restated certificate of formation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit and is subject to risk of loss.. Any shares of our common stock you purchase will not be savings accounts, deposits or other obligations of any of our bank or non-bank subsidiaries and will not be insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency.  Your investment will be subject to investment risk, and you must be capable of affording the loss of your entire investment."
