[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business and operations are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, certain risks and uncertainties. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included and incorporated by reference in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Failure to consummate our announced Merger with Hometown, or a delay in consummating the Merger, could negatively impact the market price of the Company’s common stock and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.. On November 30, 2017, the Company entered into that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger with Hometown providing for the merger of Hometown with and into the Company with the Company as the surviving corporation. The Agreement provides that at a time yet to be determined but after the Merger, Hometown Bank, Hometown’s only bank subsidiary, will merge with and into and under the charter of the Bank which is the Company’s only bank subsidiary, with the Bank as the survivor of that merger. The Merger is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2018 pending shareholder and regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. We have incurred substantial expenses in connection with the negotiation and preparations for completion of the transactions contemplated by the Merger. If the Merger is not completed, we will have incurred these expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the Merger. If the Merger is not consummated for any reason, our ongoing business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected and the market price of our common stock may decline significantly, particularly to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be consummated. If the consummation of the Merger is delayed, including by the receipt of a competing acquisition proposal or by reason of litigation, our business, financial condition and results of operations may also be materially adversely affected. In addition, our business may have been impacted adversely by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the Merger without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the Merger.. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger.. The success of the Merger will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine the business of Hometown Bank with our business. If we are not able to successfully achieve this objective, the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Hometown and Hometown Bank have each operated and, until the consummation of the Merger, will continue to operate independently. It is possible that the integration process or other factors could result in the loss or departure of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. It is also possible that clients, customers, depositors and counterparties of Hometown Bank could choose to discontinue their relationships with the combined company post-merger, which would adversely affect the future performance of the combined company. These transition matters could have an adverse effect on us, Hometown and Hometown Bank during the pre-merger period and for an undetermined time after the consummation of the Merger.. Guaranty Federal Bancshares, Inc., the Bank, Hometown and Hometown Bank will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Merger is pending that could adversely affect their respective businesses.. The parties’ efforts to complete the Merger could cause substantial disruptions in the Company, the Bank, Hometown and Hometown Bank’s respective businesses, which could have an adverse effect on their respective financial results. Among other things, uncertainty as to whether the Merger will be completed may affect the ability of each of the parties to recruit prospective employees or to retain and motivate existing employees. Employee retention may be particularly challenging while the Merger is pending because employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company and combined banks. Uncertainty as to the future could adversely affect the Company, the Bank, Hometown and Hometown Bank’s, respective businesses, reputation and relationships with potential depositors, borrowers and vendors. For example, vendors, customers and others who deal with the Company, the Bank, and Hometown Bank could defer decisions concerning working with that bank, or seek to change existing business relationships with such banks.. 30. Further, a substantial amount of the attention of management and employees of each company and bank is being directed toward the completion of the Merger and thus is being diverted from such company’s day-to-day operations because matters related to the Merger (including integration planning) require substantial commitments of time and resources.. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts Hometown and Hometown Bank from taking certain actions without the Company’s consent while the Merger is pending. These restrictions may, among other matters, prevent Hometown and Hometown Bank from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities, selling assets, entering into other transactions or making other changes to its respective business prior to consummation of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. These restrictions could have a material adverse effect on Hometown Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations pre-Merger reducing Hometown Bank’s value at the time of the Merger.. The Merger Agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms and the Merger may not be completed.. The Merger Agreement is subject to a number of conditions which must be fulfilled in order to complete it. Those conditions include: approval of the Merger Agreement by the shareholders of Hometown, receipt of requisite regulatory approvals subject to certain limitations set forth in the Merger Agreement, absence of orders prohibiting completion of the mergers, the continued accuracy of the representations and warranties by the parties, and the performance by the parties of their covenants and obligations. These conditions to the closing of the Mergers may not be fulfilled and, accordingly, the Mergers may not be completed. Under the Merger Agreement, if the Merger is not completed at or before June 30, 2018, either party to the Merger Agreement may choose not to proceed with the Merger, and the parties can mutually decide to terminate the Merger Agreement at any time, before or after shareholder approval. In addition, under the Merger Agreement Guaranty Federal or Hometown, as applicable, may elect to terminate the Merger Agreement in certain other circumstances. If the Merger Agreement is terminated by one party due to breaches of its representations, warranties, covenants or agreements in any material respect by the other party that would result in the failure of a closing condition that has not or cannot be cured, the breaching party may be required to pay the terminating party $200,000.. If the Company terminates the Merger Agreement for fiduciary duty reasons in connection with an acquisition proposal from another potential acquirer, Hometown may be required to pay the Company $220,000.. Failure to complete the Mergers could negatively impact our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and/or stock prices.. If the Merger Agreement is terminated and the Merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected. The market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed. In addition, we may experience negative reactions to the termination of the Merger from customers, depositors, investors, vendors and others with whom they deal, and we would not realize any of the anticipated benefits of having completed the Merger. The expenses we have incurred in connection with the Merger, such as legal and accounting fees, must be paid even if the Merger is not completed and may not be recovered from the other party.. We expect to incur significant expenses related to the Merger.. We have and expect to incur significant expenses in connection with consummation of the Merger and combining the business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures of Hometown and Hometown Bank. Although we have assumed that a certain level of transaction and combination expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of our expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. Due to these factors, the transaction and combination expenses associated with the Merger could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the combination of the businesses following the consummation of the Merger. As a result of these expenses, we have taken and expect to take charges against our earnings before and after the completion of the Merger. The charges taken in connection with the Merger is expected to be significant, although the aggregate amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present.. 31. Our business is concentrated in and largely dependent upon the continued growth and welfare of the general geographical markets in which we operate.. Our operations are heavily concentrated in the Greene, Christian and Jasper Counties, which are in the southwestern corner of Missouri, including the cities of Springfield, Nixa, Ozark and Joplin, Missouri (our “Market Area”). Our success depends to a significant extent upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Although our customers' business and financial interests may extend well beyond these market areas, adverse economic conditions that affect these market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us, affect the value of collateral underlying loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because of our geographic concentration, we are less able than other regional or national financial institutions to diversify our credit risks across multiple markets.. Our loan/lease portfolio possesses increased risk due to our relatively high concentration of real estate loans, which involve risks specific to real estate values.. Real estate lending comprises a significant portion of our lending business. Real estate loans were $520.1 million, or approximately 81% of our total loan/lease portfolio, as of December 31, 2017. The market value of real estate securing our real estate loans can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in our Market Area which is where most of the real estate on which our real estate loans are made is located. Adverse developments affecting real estate values in our Market Area could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Additionally, real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of the loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Economic events or governmental regulations outside of our control or that of our borrowers could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties impairing the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans which could materially and adversely affect the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations depending on the severity of the economic downturn or the nature of the regulatory changes.. Deterioration in asset quality could have an adverse impact on our business.. A significant source of risk for us arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans includes a wide variety of diverse real and personal property that may be affected by changes in prevailing economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, environmental contamination (as discussed in more detail below) and other external events. In addition, decreases in real estate values due to the nature of the Bank’s loan portfolio (discussed above) could affect the ability of customers to repay their loans. The Bank’s loan policies and procedures may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or liquidity.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with real estate collateral securing our loans.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. Under certain circumstances, we may take title to the real property collateral through foreclosure or other means. As the titleholder of the property, we may be responsible for environmental risks, such as hazardous materials, which attach to the property. For these reasons, prior to extending credit, we conduct an environmental review to identify any known environmental risks associated with the real property that will secure our loans. In addition, we routinely inspect properties prior to foreclosing. If environmental risks are found, environmental laws and regulations may prescribe our approach to remediation. As a result, while we have ownership of a property, we may incur substantial expense and bear potential liability for any damages caused. The environmental risks may also materially reduce the property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the property. We also cannot guarantee that our environmental review will detect all environmental issues relating to a property, which could subject us to additional liability.. 32. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to the percentage of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans.. Our loan portfolio includes a significant amount of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans. The credit risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to owner-occupied residential real estate loans or consumer loans because commercial loans often have larger balances, and repayment usually depends on the borrowers’ successful business operations. The underlying commercial real estate values, customer cash flow and payment expectations on such loans can be more easily influenced by adverse conditions in the related industries, the real estate market or in the economy in general. Any significant deterioration in the credit quality of the commercial loan portfolio or underlying collateral values would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry.. We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services throughout our market area. Our competitors include other community banks, regional and super-regional banking institutions, national banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, brokerage companies, and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and some are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as we are. Many of our competitors compete across geographic boundaries and are able to provide customers with a feasible alternative to traditional banking services.. As we try to meet our competitors’ terms and pricing, increased competition in our markets may result in:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinterest rate changes to various types of accounts;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta decrease in the amounts of our loans and deposits;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treduced spreads between loan rates and deposit rates; or. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloan terms that are more favorable to the borrower and less favorable to the Bank.. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and remain profitable. If increased competition causes us to significantly discount the interest rates we offer on loans or increase the amount we pay on deposits, our net interest income could be adversely impacted.. Our operations are concentrated in one subsidiary bank; an event or a series of events having a material adverse impact on the financial condition and results of operations of the Bank would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operation and, accordingly, on your investment in us.. As a holding company with only one subsidiary bank, our investment risk is concentrated in just one primary operating asset in a relatively small geographic location. A substantial portion of our cash flow comes from dividends paid directly to us by the Bank. If and to the extent our Bank is not successful or an event were to occur that prevents it or hinders it from operating effectively, our financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely impacted. Larger bank holding companies with more subsidiary banks or bank facilities and which are more geographically dispersed are not as susceptible to the concentrated risks we are if one of their subsidiary banks or facilities was not able to operate effectively.. Cybersecurity threats and data breaches could adversely impact our financial condition as well as cause legal or reputational harm.. Our operations are heavily dependent on the secure processing, transmission, and storage of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Cybersecurity risks for banking organizations have significantly increased in recent years due to the proliferation of new technologies, the increased use of the internet to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication of attackers, such as hackers. In addition, customers may use personal mobile or computing devices to access our products or services that are outside of our network environment and are subject to their own cybersecurity risks. A cyberattack, security breach, or a technology failure could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential information, cause us to spend significant resources to investigate and remediate exposures, and adversely impact our operations and liquidity. We may also be subject to litigation and financial losses and we could suffer reputational harm and a loss of confidence in our systems and products.. 33. Although we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of data incidents, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, or other cyberattacks. Security compromises could include computer viruses, malicious or destructive code, phishing attacks, denial of service or information or other security breaches that could result in the unauthorized collection, monitoring, release, use, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information of ours, our customers or third parties, damages to systems.. We rely on our employees and third parties in our day-to-day and ongoing operations, who may, as a result of human error, misconduct, malfeasance or failure, or breach of systems or infrastructure, expose us to risk. We have taken measures to implement safeguards to support our operations, but our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant disruptions to us or to third parties with whom we interact or upon whom we rely.. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or incidents. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and we may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. There can be no reassurance that we will not be subject to a data breach and our security measures may not detect all cyberattacks. A cyberattack or other information or security breach could result in a material loss or have material consequences on our business.”. We depend upon third-party vendors for a significant portion of our operations.. We rely on third-party service providers for a substantial portion of our operations, including communication, record retention, and financial control systems technology. While we endeavor to select reliable and competent vendors, we cannot control our vendors or their actions. The potential for operational risk exposure exists because of our interactions with, and reliance on, third parties in our daily and ongoing operations. Any problems caused by or suffered by a third-party vendor, including a vendor’s failure to provide contracted services, poor performance by a vendor, disruption of a vendor’s business operations, or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our ability to serve our customers or to conduct our business efficiently and effectively. Replacing a vendor could entail significant delay and expense.. Our third-party vendors are also subject to the cybersecurity risks discussed above. A cyberattack, information or security breach, or a technology failure of a third-party vendor could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we review the security practices of third-parties before contracting with them, we cannot control their systems or security. If our data or the data of our customers is improperly accessed, used, transmitted, or otherwise obtained because of, or due in part to, actions or inactions caused by our third-party vendors, we could face significant operational harm, legal and financial exposure, and reputational damage.”. We continually encounter technological change, and we cannot predict how changes in technology will affect our business.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we do. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. 34. Rapidly changing interest rate environments could reduce our net interest margin and otherwise negatively impact our results of operations.. Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are the key drivers of our net interest margin and are subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, our net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in our interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in the maturities of our assets and liabilities. Furthermore, substantially higher rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth for us. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between our interest rates earned on assets and our rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease our net interest income, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. Interest rate changes may affect borrowers’ repayment schedules, negatively impacting our financial condition.. Interest rate increases often result in larger payment requirements for our borrowers, which increase the potential for default. At the same time, the marketability of underlying collateral may be adversely affected by any reduced demand resulting from higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on certain of our loans as borrowers refinance at lower rates. Fluctuation in interest rates may therefore change borrowers’ timing of repayment of, or ability to repay loans, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition.. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our nonperforming assets, decreasing net interest income.. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in our nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Further, when we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse any accrued but unpaid interest receivable, which decreases interest income. Subsequently, we continue to have a cost to fund the loan, which is reflected as interest expense, without any interest income to offset the associated funding expense. Thus, an increase in the amount of nonperforming assets resulting from changes in interest rates would have an adverse impact on net interest income, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. The financial condition of the Bank’s customers and borrowers could adversely affect the Bank’s liquidity.. Two of the Bank’s primary sources of funds are customer deposits and loan repayments. Customer deposit levels may also be affected by a number of factors, including the competitive interest rate environment in both the national market and our Market Area, local and national economic conditions, natural disasters and other various events. Though scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of liquidity, they are subject to the borrowers’ ability to repay their loans. The ability of the borrowers to repay their loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting the business environment, natural disasters and various other factors. The inability of borrowers to repay their loans or a decline in customer deposits would, depending on the extent of the loan defaults or decline in customer deposits, materially and adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Adequate liquidity is critical in our ability to meet the needs of our customers. An inability to access funding through customer deposits, available borrowings, sales of loans or investments could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Furthermore, regional and community banks, including the Bank, generally have less access to the capital markets, than do the national and super-regional banks because of their smaller size and limited analyst coverage. Any significant decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability in the future to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, pay dividends to our stockholders, or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition.. 35. A decrease in cash flows from our investment portfolio may adversely affect our liquidity.. Another primary source of liquidity for the Bank is cash flows from investment securities. Cash flows from the investment portfolio may be affected by changes in interest rates, resulting in excessive levels of cash flow during periods of declining interest rates and lower levels of cash flow during periods of rising interest rates. These changes may be beyond our control and could significantly influence our available cash.. If we are required to rely on secondary sources of liquidity, those sources may not be immediately available.. We may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include the FHLB advances, brokered deposits and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. Our ability to borrow could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative publicity about the financial services industry as a whole. We may also be required to pledge investments as collateral to borrow money from third parties. In certain cases, we may be required to sell investment instruments for sizable losses to meet liquidity needs, thereby reducing interest income and resultantly net income. While we believe that we are currently sufficiently liquid, there can be no assurance we will not in the future be required to turn to these secondary sources of liquidity which may not be available or only at costs that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation.. Inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues, net income and growth plans.. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals and their ability to attract and retain customer relationships in a community bank environment. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. None of our employees, including those who comprise our key management team, are subject to employment contracts with us. Such employees are at-will and thus are not restricted from terminating their employment. The lack of employment contracts with key employees could have a material adverse impact on our ability to retain such employees. The loss of key management or our key loan officers with their contacts in the business communities within our Market Area may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues.. If we do struggle with employee retention, our success may also be impacted if we are unable to recruit replacement management and key employees in a reasonable amount of time. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting, hiring, and training expenses, resulting in lower net income.. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud.. Employee errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses, regulatory sanctions, lawsuits and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers, or improper use of confidential information. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks. However, if our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, such failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to extensive regulation that may significantly affect our operations or earnings.. We are subject to significant federal and state regulation and supervision, as discussed in more detail below, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of the Bank’s customers and not for the benefit of investors. As a result, various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our Bank subsidiary can pay to us without regulatory approval. Our regulatory compliance is costly. We are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various agencies, including the FRB, the MDF and FDIC. These regulators have broad discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, as discussed below, which require that we and the Bank maintain adequate capital to support our growth and the Bank’s growth. To the extent our activities and/or the Bank’s activities are restricted or limited by regulation or regulators’ supervisory authority, our future profitability may be adversely affected.. 36. An uncertain regulatory environment could impact our business, financial performance, and results of operations.. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to continued rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us. The U.S. Congress continues to propose new legislation that could increase or change regulation of the financial services industry and impact the operations of the Bank or Company.. On February 3, 2017, President Trump signed Executive Order 13772 announcing new “Core Principles” for regulating the U.S. financial system. Among other things, the President directed the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with federal regulatory agencies, to review existing laws and regulations and report on the extent to which they were consistent with the Core Principles. The Trump administration has also indicated in public statements that the Dodd-Frank Act will be under scrutiny and that some of its provisions and the rules promulgated thereunder may be revised, repealed or amended. It is not clear when, or if, changes to existing statutory or regulatory requirements may be implemented.. The implementation, amendment, or repeal of federal financial services laws or regulations may impact our profitability, limit our business opportunities, impose additional costs, or otherwise adversely affect our business. Any changes may also require us to invest management attention and resources to achieve compliance. In addition, any proposed legislative or regulatory changes that could benefit our business may not occur in the timeframe proposed, may appear different in final form than proposed, or may not occur at all.”. Changes in federal or state regulation may increase our costs.. The laws, regulations, policies, and interpretations that govern our industry are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. The Dodd-Frank Act reshaped regulation of banking institutions and the numerous requirements stemming from the Dodd-Frank Act have resulted in increased compliance costs for institutions both large and small, including us and the Bank. As these regulations continue to be implemented, interpreted, and enforced, our compliance must evolve as well. The CFPB has shown that it is a proactive agency and we anticipate that the CFPB will continue to expand its supervisory and enforcement authority into new areas and to issue new rules and guidance.. We cannot predict the nature or effect of current or proposed legislative or regulatory changes on us or the Bank with any certainty. Changes in laws or regulations could impact our business practices and profitability. We also cannot predict the cost of new compliance that may be required to keep pace with industry regulatory changes.. Decreases in capital and changes to the formulas for calculating adequate capital may negatively impact us or result in increased regulatory supervision.. Federal rules require banking institutions to maintain an adequate level of regulatory capital (net assets available to absorb losses). Due to the risks associated with the industry, banking institutions are generally required to hold more capital than other businesses. Revised minimum capital adequacy requirements under the Basel III Rule became effective for us and the Bank on January 1, 2015, with additional requirements, such as the capital conservation buffer (discussed below), to be phased in over the next few years. The new requirements change the definition of capital, increase minimum required risk-based capital ratios, and increase the risk-weights for certain assets. Cumulatively, the Basel III Rule is more stringent than prior requirements and requires financial institutions to hold more and better capital against their assets, decreasing the size of their balance sheets. Although the impact on us has been minimal to date, we cannot guarantee that will continue.. Financial institutions must maintain a 2.5% capital conservation buffer comprised of CET1 Capital above the minimum risk-based capital requirements. The buffer must be maintained in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. If we or the Bank dip below the capital conservation buffer, we or the Bank could be subject to increasingly strict limitations on capital distributions and bonus payments.. 37. Federal law provides regulators with broad powers to take \"prompt corrective action\" to resolve capital deficiencies at insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. There are five capital tiers: \"well capitalized,\" \"adequately capitalized,\" \"undercapitalized,\" \"significantly undercapitalized\" and \"critically undercapitalized.\" As an institution’s capital levels deteriorates and it falls below the “well capitalized” threshold, such institution faces increasing penalties. Regulator’s corrective powers include, but are not limited to:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring a waiver to accept brokered deposits;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring submission of a capital plan;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting growth or restricting activities;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring the issuance of additional capital stock;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestricting transactions with affiliates;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibiting executive bonuses or raises;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibiting the payment of subordinated debt; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tappointing a receiver.. Accordingly, we and the Bank could be subject to regulatory penalties and restrictions if capital falls below certain minimum thresholds.. Management’s analysis of the necessary funding for the allowance for loan loss account may be incorrect or may suddenly change resulting in lower earnings.. The funding of the allowance for loan loss account is the most significant estimate made by management in its financial reporting to stockholders and regulators. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which are subject to material changes.. Although management believes that the allowance for loan/lease losses as of December 31, 2017 was adequate to absorb losses on any existing loans/leases that may become uncollectible, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and we cannot assure you that our allowance for loan losses will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future, particularly if economic conditions are more difficult than management currently expects. If negative changes to the performance of our loan portfolio were to occur, management may find it necessary to or be required to fund the allowance for loan loss account through additional charges to our provision for loan loss expense. These changes may occur suddenly and be dramatic in nature. Additional provisions to the allowance for loan losses and loan losses in excess of said allowance may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, including economic conditions specifically in our Market Area, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits.. The effects of the monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve upon our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future cannot be predicted, but have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks, including our Bank, in the past.. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders.. Provisions in our governing documents, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the “DGCL”) and federal regulations could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders. These provisions include, but are not limited to:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding without prior Board approval;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsupermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding common stock;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe election of directors to staggered terms of three years;. 38. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadvance notice requirements for director nominations and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our Board of Directors; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsupermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors.. In addition, because we are a bank holding company, purchasers of 10% or more of our common stock may be required to obtain approvals under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, or the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”), and in certain cases such approvals may be required at a lesser percentage of ownership.. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors.. There are restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock.. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by Delaware law, as well as regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us is limited by its obligation to maintain sufficient capital and liquidity and by other general restrictions on dividends that are applicable to the Bank. If current or any future regulatory requirements are not met, the Bank will not be able to pay dividends to us, and we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock.. The DGCL provides that dividends by a Delaware corporation may be paid only from: (1) “surplus” determined in the manner described in the DGCL, or (2) in case there is no “surplus,” net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. Dividends paid from the second source may not be paid unless the capital represented by the issued and outstanding stock of all classes having a preference upon the distribution of assets at current market value is intact.. Moreover, as a bank holding company, our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. The Federal Reserve guidelines generally require us to review the effects of the cash payment of dividends on common stock and other Tier 1 capital instruments (i.e., perpetual preferred stock and trust preferred debt) in light of our earnings, capital adequacy and financial condition. As a general matter, the Federal Reserve indicates that the Board of Directors of a bank holding company should eliminate, defer or significantly reduce the dividends if:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe company’s net income available to stockholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe prospective rate of earnings retention is inconsistent with the company’s capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition; or. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios.. In the future, if we default on certain of our outstanding debts, we will be prohibited from making dividend payments on our common stock until such payments have been brought current.. Failure to pay interest on our debt may adversely impact our ability to pay common stock dividends.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $15.5 million of junior subordinated debentures held by two Trusts. Interest payments on the Company’s existing debentures, which totaled $631,000 for 2017, must be paid before the Company can pay dividends on its capital stock, including its common stock. The Company has the right to defer interest payments on the debentures for up to 20 consecutive quarters. However, if it elects to defer interest payments, all deferred interest must be paid before the Company can pay dividends on its capital stock.. 39. Although the Company expects to be able to pay all required interest on the junior subordinated debentures, there is no guarantee that it will be able to do so.. There is a limited trading market for our common stock, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them.. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, it has a low average daily trading volume relative to many other stocks whose shares are also quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. We cannot assure you that the volume of trading in our common stock will increase in the future.. Additionally, general market forces may have a negative effect on our stock price, independent of factors affecting our stock specifically. Factors beyond our control, including price and trading fluctuation, can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our common stock and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of our common stock.. The soundness of other financial institutions could negatively affect our business.. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be negatively affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions, including the Bank, are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience increases in deposits and assets as a result of the difficulties or failures of other banks, which would increase the capital we need to support our growth. There can be no assurance that we could raise the necessary capital to support our growth or on terms satisfactory to us.. We face legal risks, both from regulatory investigations and proceedings and from private actions brought against us.. We could in the future become subject to lawsuits or regulatory proceedings challenging the legality of our lending or business practices. Future actions against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm to us. As a participant in the financial services industry, we are exposed to a high level of potential litigation related to our businesses and operations. Although we maintain insurance, the scope of this coverage may not provide us with full, or even partial, coverage in any particular case.. Our businesses and operations are also subject to increasing regulatory oversight and scrutiny, which may lead to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. These and other initiatives from federal and state officials may subject us to further judgments, settlements, fines or penalties, or cause us to be required to restructure our operations and activities, all of which could lead to reputational issues, or higher operational costs, thereby reducing our revenue.. Our reputation could be damaged by negative publicity.. Reputational risk, or the risk to us from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from actual or alleged conduct in a number of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, inadequate protection of customer data, ethical behavior of our employees, and from actions taken by regulators, ratings agencies and others as a result of that conduct. Damage to our reputation could impact our ability to attract new or maintain existing loan and deposit customers, employees and business relationships.. 40. Changes in the federal or state tax laws may negatively impact our financial performance.. We are subject to tax law changes that could increase the effective tax rate payable to the state or federal government. These changes may be retroactive to previous periods and as a result, could negatively affect our current and future financial performance. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”), which among other actions reduces the federal corporate tax rate to 21% from 35% effective January 1, 2018, which will have a favorable impact on the Company’s net income going forward. As a result, income tax expense recorded in 2017 included a $1.0 million reduction to deferred tax assets. The Company’s customers are likely to experience varying effects from both the individual and business tax provisions of the Tax Act, which could adversely impact demand for the Company’s products and services. The Company continues to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on its financial condition and results of operations.”. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments, which are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and which may differ from actual results.. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and general reporting practices within the U.S. financial services industry, which require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Some accounting policies, such as those pertaining to our allowance for loan losses, require the application of significant judgment by management in selecting the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates. By their nature, these estimates and judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and actual results may differ from these estimates and judgments under different assumptions or conditions. If actual results vary significantly, there may be a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in subsequent periods.. 41"                                          
