[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. <U+FEFF>. An investment in our common stock involves risks.  The following is a description of the material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect our business and an investment in our common stock. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial also may become important factors that affect us and our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Therefore, the risk factors below should not be considered a complete list of potential risks that we may face.. <U+FEFF>. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. <U+FEFF>. Risks Related to Our Business. <U+FEFF>. Our loan portfolio exposes us to credit risk.. <U+FEFF>. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities and we seek to mitigate these risks by adhering to conservative underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting practices are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may nevertheless incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria or loans with approved exceptions to our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. The deterioration of one or several of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, which could result in a loss of earnings from these loans and an increase in the provision for credit losses and net charge-offs.. <U+FEFF>. We make both secured and unsecured commercial loans. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than do secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers' respective businesses. Secured commercial loans are generally collateralized by real estate, accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or other assets owned by the borrower and may include a personal guaranty of the business owner. Compared to real estate, other types of collateral securing commercial loans are more difficult to monitor, their values are harder to ascertain, their values may depreciate more rapidly and they may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Commercial loans secured by collateral other than real estate are generally serviced from the operations of the business, which may not be successful, while commercial real estate loans generally will be serviced from the income on the properties securing the loans. If the Bank's commercial loan portfolio increases, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans will also increase.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to  interest rate risk, and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The majority of our assets are monetary in nature. As a result, our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income which is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds.. <U+FEFF>. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including genera, local, national and global economic conditions, demand for loans, securities and deposits, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies and actions of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. On December 14, 2017, the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates for the fifth time in two years. Further, the Federal Reserve indicated that they intend to continue to raise interest rates. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect: (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our loans and securities that are collateralized by mortgages. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. In addition, our assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of the assets and. 19. Table of Contents. liabilities. If short-term interest rates increase further, our interest rates on deposits may increase more significantly than we have experienced with the past five rate increases by the Federal Reserve. Additionally, if short-term interest rates increase, our interest rates on loans may not increase as significantly as we have experienced with the past five rate increases by the Federal Reserve. Because our rates on deposits and loans may change at a higher or lower level than changes in benchmark rates, these variances could negatively affect our asset-liability modeling. If interest rates decline, our higher-rate loans and investments may be subject to prepayment risk, which could negatively impact our net interest margin. Conversely, if interest rates increase, our loans and investments may be subject to extension risk, which could negatively impact our net interest margin as well. If interest rates increase, our earnings credit rate on certain noninterest bearing deposit accounts could increase, which could negatively impact our noninterest income.. <U+FEFF>. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 7A. \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk\" located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to our management of interest rate risk.. <U+FEFF>. Our business has been and in the future may be adversely affected by conditions in the  financial markets and economic and political conditions generally.. <U+FEFF>. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon local, national and global economic and political conditions, as well as government monetary policies. The U.S. and Colorado have been in a sustained economic recovery for several years. Although economic conditions in Colorado and in the U.S. in general continue to improve, there can be no assurances that the economic environment will continue to improve or that they will not decline in the future. An adverse change could be triggered by international, national or local economic or political changes.. <U+FEFF>. If the economic recovery slows or if the national or local economy enters into a recession, it may affect consumer confidence levels, real estate values, real estate sales volumes and consumer spending which will adversely affect our customers. This in turn may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. In addition, stock prices could be negatively affected, and our ability to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets may become more difficult.. <U+FEFF>. Declines in values in the equity or bond markets could adversely affect the value of our assets under management. As investment fees are based on assets under management, a decline in the markets could adversely affect our advisory fee income.. <U+FEFF>. An uncertain economic environment could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+FEFF>. The concentration of our commercial real estate loan portfolio subjects us to heightened regulatory scrutiny.. <U+FEFF>. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under the guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors: (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total risk-based capital or (ii) total reported loans for construction, land development and other land and loans secured by multifamily and non-owner occupied non-farm residential properties (excluding loans secured by owner-occupied properties) represent 300% or more of total risk-based capital and the institution's commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased by 50% or more during the prior 36 month period. In such event, management should employ heightened risk management practices, including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing.. <U+FEFF>. The Bank's total reported loans for construction, land development and other land represented 41% of capital at December 31, 2017 as compared to 40% of capital at December 31, 2016. This ratio is below the regulatory commercial real estate concentration guideline level of 100% for land and construction loans. The Bank's total reported commercial real estate loans to total capital was 328% at December 31, 2017, as compared to 319% of capital at December 31, 2016. This ratio is above the regulatory commercial real estate concentration guideline level of 300% for all investor real estate loans. The Bank's commercial real estate portfolio has increased by 70% over the. 20. Table of Contents. preceding 36 months. Excluding loans acquired in the transactions with Home State and Castle Rock, the balance of commercial real estate loans increased by 41% over the preceding 36 months.. <U+FEFF>. There is no assurance that in the future we will not continue to exceed the levels set forth in these guidelines and we may be required to take additional steps to mitigate our potential concentration risk or be required to raise additional capital in order to further reduce our risk. In addition, if we are considered to have a concentration in commercial real estate lending under the foregoing standards in the future and our risk management practices are found to be deficient, it could result in increased reserves and capital costs as well as potential regulatory enforcement action.. <U+FEFF>. Commercial real estate loans are generally viewed as having more inherent risk of default than residential mortgage loans or other consumer loans. Also, the commercial real estate loan balance per borrower is typically larger than that for residential mortgage loans and other consumer loans, inferring higher potential losses on an individual loan basis. The deterioration of one or more of the Bank's significant commercial real estate loans could cause a significant increase in nonaccrual loans. An increase in nonaccrual loans could result in a loss of interest income from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and capital rules is unknown.. <U+FEFF>. In 2013, the FDIC, the OCC and the Federal Reserve Board approved a new rule that substantially amends the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The final rule implements the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.. <U+FEFF>. The final rule includes minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios which became effective for us on January 1, 2015, and refines the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating these ratios. The minimum capital requirements to be considered \"adequately capitalized\" are: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6.0%, which was increased from 4.0%; (iii) a total capital ratio of 8.0%, which was unchanged from the previous rules; and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%. The final rule also established a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5% above the regulatory minimum capital ratios, and when fully effective in 2019, will result in the following minimum capital ratios: (a) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%; (b) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%; and (c) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The capital conservation buffer requirement began phasing-in in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. If an institution does not meet or exceed these minimum capital ratios it will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its buffer level falls below the required buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such activities.. <U+FEFF>. The application of more stringent capital requirements for us could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions such as a prohibition on the payment of dividends, the payment of bonuses to employees or the repurchase of shares if we were unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to restructure our business models or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes in asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying our business strategy.. <U+FEFF>. Our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses, which could adversely affect our earnings and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our borrowers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and that the collateral securing the payment of a particular loan may be insufficient to fully compensate for the outstanding balance of the loan and the costs to dispose of the underlying collateral. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management's best estimate of probable incurred losses within our existing portfolio of loans. Additional credit losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has experienced on average, over the last credit cycle. The level of the allowance reflects management's ongoing evaluation of specific credit risks, loan loss experience, loan portfolio quality, economic conditions, loan industry concentrations, and other potential but unidentifiable losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us. 21. Table of Contents. to make significant estimates of current credit risks, future trends, and general economic conditions, all of which may undergo material changes.. <U+FEFF>. Further, the measure of our allowance for loan losses is also subject to the adoption of new accounting standards. On June 16, 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued the Current Expected Credit Loss (\"CECL\") standard, which will require financial institutions to estimate and develop a provision for credit losses at origination for the lifetime of the loan, as opposed to reserving for incurred or probable losses up to the balance sheet date. Under the CECL model, credit deterioration would be reflected in the income statement in the period of origination or acquisition of the loan, with changes in expected credit losses due to further credit deterioration or improvement reflected in the periods in which the expectation changes. Accordingly, the CECL model could require financial institutions, such as the Bank, to increase their allowance for loan losses upon adoption. Moreover, the CECL model could create more volatility in the Bank's level of allowance for loan losses. For public business entities that are SEC filers the amendments of the update will become effective beginning January 1, 2020. Management expects to recognize a one-time cumulative effect adjustment to the allowance for loan losses as of the first reporting period in which the new standard is effective, but cannot yet estimate the magnitude of the one-time adjustment or the overall impact of the new guidance on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Likewise, increases in nonperforming loans have a significant impact on our allowance for loan losses. If real estate values decline, we could experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, particularly with respect to commercial real estate loans. Likewise, if management's assumptions prove to be incorrect or if we experience significant loan losses in future periods, our current level of allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. A material change to the allowance could cause net income and possibly capital to decrease.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require management to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of the Bank's management. An increase in our allowance for loan losses or charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's operating results and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to  fund operations and jeopardize our  financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans or other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry.. <U+FEFF>. We rely primarily on commercial and retail deposits and to a significantly lesser extent, brokered deposit renewals and rollovers, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (\"FHLB\") and other secured and unsecured borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. In addition, if we fall below the FDIC's thresholds to be considered \"well capitalized\", we will be unable to continue to rollover or renew brokered funds, and the interest rate paid on deposits would be restricted.. <U+FEFF>. Our deposit  insurance premiums could  increase in the future, which could  have a material adverse effect on our future earnings.. <U+FEFF>. The FDIC insures deposits at certain financial institutions, including the Bank and charges insured financial institutions a  premium to maintain the DIF at a certain level. In the event that deteriorating economic conditions increase bank failures, the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the DIF.. <U+FEFF>. 22. Table of Contents. In August 2016, the FDIC announced that the DIF reserve ratio had surpassed 1.15% as of June 30, 2016. As a result, beginning in the third quarter of 2016, the range of initial assessment rates for all institutions was adjusted downward and institutions with $10 billion or more in assets were assessed a quarterly surcharge. The quarterly surcharge will continue to be assessed until such time as the reserve ratio reaches the statutory minimum of 1.35% required by the Dodd-Frank Act. In March 2017, the FDIC announced that the DIF reserve ratio was 1.20% as of December 31, 2016. The Company had $3.7 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2017 and therefore was not subject to the quarterly surcharge. At December 31, 2017, the Bank's total assessment rate was approximately three basis points. Although the Bank's FDIC insurance assessments have not increased as a result of these changes, there can be no assurance that the FDIC will not increase assessment rates in the future or that the Bank will not be subject to higher assessment rates as a result of a change in its risk category, either of which could have an adverse effect on the Bank's earnings.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, the FDIC may terminate an institution's deposit insurance if it determines that the institution involved has engaged in or is engaging in unsafe or unsound banking practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition, or has violated applicable laws, regulations or orders. In the case of a Colorado-chartered bank, the termination of deposit insurance would result in the revocation of its charter.. <U+FEFF>. We may need to raise additional capital or debt in the future and such capital or debt may not be available when needed or at all.. <U+FEFF>. We may need to raise additional capital or debt in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital or debt to support our business or to finance acquisitions.. <U+FEFF>. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance.. <U+FEFF>. We cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of investors, the Bank's depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. Moreover, if we need to raise capital in the future, we may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The value of securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in securities markets.. <U+FEFF>. The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio has been volatile over the past several years. Volatile market conditions may quickly and detrimentally affect the value of these securities due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks associated with their ownership. There can be no assurance that declines in market value will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Under CECL an allowance will be established for expected lifetime losses on held to maturity securities and impairments on available for sale securities will also need to reflect expected lifetime losses. The change in accounting for held to maturity and available for sale securities under CECL could adversely impact earnings in future periods.. <U+FEFF>. Our accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting models.. <U+FEFF>. Processes that management uses to estimate our probable incurred credit losses and to measure the fair value of financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, depend upon the use of analytical and forecasting models. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Even if these assumptions are accurate, the models may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation.. <U+FEFF>. If the models that management uses for interest rate risk and asset-liability management are inadequate, we may incur increased or unexpected losses upon changes in market interest rates or other market measures. If the models that management uses for determining our probable incurred credit losses are inadequate, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to support future charge-offs, incurred as of the balance-sheet date. If the models. 23. Table of Contents. that management uses to measure the fair value of financial instruments are inadequate, the fair value of such financial instruments may fluctuate unexpectedly or may not accurately reflect what we could realize upon sale or settlement of such financial instruments. Any such failure in management's analytical or forecasting models could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The lack of soundness of other financial  institutions could adversely affect us.. <U+FEFF>. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and lack of commercial soundness of other financial institutions. The businesses of many financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a  default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be sold or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. We operate in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, are subject to extensive regulation and supervision.. <U+FEFF>. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulation, supervision and examination. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators' supervisory policies, examination procedures or enforcement actions, whether by the CDB, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, other state or federal regulators, the U.S. Congress or the Colorado legislature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, compliance with these regulations and laws may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.. <U+FEFF>. Supervision and the regulations to which we are subject limit the activities in which we may permissibly engage along with our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. The purpose of supervision and regulation is primarily to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, rather than our stockholders.. <U+FEFF>. The Dodd-Frank Act instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Additional legislation and regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could significantly affect the Company's and the Bank's powers, authority and operations in substantial and unpredictable ways. Further, regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers under banking regulations, as well as under various consumer protection and civil rights laws. Regulators may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution's allowance for loan losses. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power could have a negative impact on the Company. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Noncompliance with the Bank Secrecy Act or other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations could cause us material financial loss.. <U+FEFF>. The Bank Secrecy Act and the USA Patriot Act contain anti-money laundering and financial transparency provisions intended to detect, and prevent the use of the U.S. financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing activities. The Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA Patriot Act, requires depository institutions and their holding companies to undertake activities including maintaining an anti-money laundering program, verifying the identity of clients, monitoring for and reporting suspicious transactions, reporting on cash transactions exceeding specified thresholds, and responding to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies. FinCEN, a unit of the U.S. Treasury Department that administers the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the federal bank regulatory agencies, among others. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the OFAC. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain. 24. Table of Contents. planned business activities, including acquisition plans, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have significant reputational consequences for us.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the CRA and fair lending laws and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the Community Reinvestment Act or other fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on acquisition activity, restrictions on expansion and restrictions on entering new product lines. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The impact of new tax legislation is uncertain and could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, and it will take time for additional clarifying guidance and legislation to be issued, and this guidance will be required for the interpretation of these comprehensive changes. Unevaluated implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 could have a material benefit or material adverse impact and could result in volatility in our effective tax rate, tax expense and cash flow. Management is in the process of analyzing the potential aggregate current and future impacts of the legislation. Any benefit associated with the lower U.S. corporate income tax rate could be reduced or outweighed by other adverse changes enacted in the legislation or by the cost of compliance.. <U+FEFF>. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.. <U+FEFF>. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP, are subject to interpretation by FASB, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in accounting principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results for subsequent periods and prior periods, if retrospectively adopted. Additionally, the adoption of new standards may potentially require enhancements or changes in our systems and may require significant time and cost on behalf of our financial management. See Note 2 of the \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" contained in Item 8. \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" for information on recent accounting pronouncements and their anticipated impact, on our consolidated financial statements.. <U+FEFF>. Regulations could restrict our ability to originate loans.. <U+FEFF>. The CFPB has issued a rule designed to clarify how lenders can avoid legal liability under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this definition of \"qualified mortgage\" will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the CFPB's rule, a \"qualified mortgage\" loan must not contain certain specified features, including:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texcessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less \"bona fide discount points\" for prime loans);.  \t\t\tinterest-only payments;.  \t\t\tnegative-amortization; and.  \t\t\tterms longer than 30 years.. <U+FEFF>. Also, to qualify as a \"qualified mortgage,\" a borrower's total monthly debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The CFPB's rule on qualified mortgages and similar rules could limit our ability to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or. 25. Table of Contents. could make it more expensive and time-consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to losses resulting from fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, correspondents or other third parties.. <U+FEFF>. We rely heavily upon information supplied to us by third parties, including the information contained in credit applications, property appraisals, title information, equipment pricing and valuation and employment and income documentation, in deciding which loans we will originate, as well as the terms of those loans. If any of the information upon which we rely is misrepresented, either fraudulently or inadvertently, and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to asset funding, the value of the asset may be significantly lower than expected, we may fund a loan that we would not have otherwise funded or we may fund a loan on terms that we would not have otherwise extended. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the applicant or by another third party, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsellable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. The sources of the misrepresentation are often difficult to locate, and it is often difficult to recover any of the monetary losses we may suffer.. <U+FEFF>. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the Colorado Front Range.. <U+FEFF>. Our success depends significantly on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business and where our loans are concentrated. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Front Range of Colorado, which includes the Denver metropolitan area. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on our loans, the ability of our borrowers to repay those loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Accordingly, if the population or income growth along the Colorado Front Range is slower than projected, income levels, deposits and housing starts could be adversely affected and could result in a reduction of our expansion, growth and profitability. The oil and gas industry has a significant economic impact on some of the counties in which we conduct business and a prolonged downturn in this industry may negatively impact our borrowers and their ability to repay their loans. If our market area experiences a downturn or a recession for a prolonged period of time, we could experience significant increases in nonperforming loans, which could lead to operating losses, impaired liquidity and eroding capital.. <U+FEFF>. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in the Front Range, of Colorado we may be particularly susceptible to the effects not only of national-level events such as recession and war but also more local calamities such as natural disasters and fluctuations in the local economy. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+FEFF>. A  downturn in our real estate markets along the Colorado Front Range could hurt our business.. <U+FEFF>. Our business activities and credit exposure are primarily concentrated along the Front Range of Colorado. As of December 31, 2017,  approximately 74% of our loan portfolio consisted of real estate loans, the majority of which are secured by properties located in Colorado. A weakening of the real estate market in our primary market areas could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing the loans and the value of real estate owned by us. As a result of decreased collateral values, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate would be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans and a corresponding material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses, which could also adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. While we have very limited direct exposure to the energy industry, we may be adversely affected by declining crude oil prices.. <U+FEFF>. Decisions by certain members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to maintain higher crude oil production levels, as well as other market and economic conditions, have led to increased global oil supplies, which in turn has resulted in significant declines in oil prices. While oil prices have stabilized, decreased market oil prices have resulted in compressed margins for many U.S. and Colorado-based oil producers, particularly those that utilize higher-cost production technologies such as hydraulic fracking and horizontal drilling, as well as oilfield service providers, energy equipment manufacturers and transportation suppliers, among others. While the Bank has very limited direct exposure to the energy industry, energy production and related industries represent a relatively. 26. Table of Contents. significant portion of the Colorado economy and can affect us indirectly through our borrowers in other industries that depend on or benefit from energy production and related industries.  A prolonged period of low oil prices could also have a negative impact on the U.S. economy and, in particular, the economies of states such as Colorado. Accordingly, we are unable to predict when or if oil prices will rise, and a prolonged period of low oil prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. The small to medium-sized businesses to which we lend may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy or a material increase in interest rates, which could materially harm our operating results.. <U+FEFF>. We serve the banking and financial services needs of small and medium-sized businesses. Small to medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns or accelerating interest rates, often need substantial additional capital to expand and compete and may experience significant volatility in operating results. Any one or more of these factors may impair a borrower's ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small to medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay a loan. Economic downturns and other events that negatively impact our market areas could cause us to incur substantial credit losses that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. New lines of business or new  products and services may subject us to additional risks.. <U+FEFF>. From time to time, we may implement or may acquire new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. We may not achieve target timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and new products or services and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as regulatory compliance obligations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area.. <U+FEFF>. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, both within and beyond our principal markets, many of which are larger than us and may have more financial resources available to them. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and community banks within the various markets we serve. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, fintech companies, brokerage firms, investment advisors, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Additionally, we expect competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the merger and acquisition activity in our market area by competing, out-of-state financial institutions. Also, technology and other changes have lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, or \"disintermediation\", could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. Further, many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints than we do and may have lower cost structures than ours. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may be able to offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can.. <U+FEFF>. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe ability to expand our market position..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe ability to attract and retain qualified staff, including those with key customer relationships..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands.. 27. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCustomer satisfaction with our level of service..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tEnterprise-wide risk appetites..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIndustry and general economic conditions.. <U+FEFF>. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, adversely affect our growth and profitability, and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+FEFF>. We rely on dividends from the Bank to pay our expenses and fund our dividends.. <U+FEFF>. Because we are a holding company with no significant assets other than the Bank, we currently depend upon dividends from the Bank for a substantial portion of our revenues and to fund our expenses. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders therefore depends in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from the Bank.. <U+FEFF>. Various federal and state regulations limit the Bank's payment of dividends, management fees and other distributions to the Company, and may therefore limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Under these laws, the Bank is currently required to request permission from the Federal Reserve prior to payment of a dividend to the Company.. <U+FEFF>. Further, we may from time to time enter into financing agreements or other contractual arrangements that have the effect of limiting or prohibiting us or the Bank from declaring or paying dividends. See \"Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities - Dividends\" for more information on these restrictions.. <U+FEFF>. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel could harm our business.. <U+FEFF>. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the Colorado community banking industry. This competition may cause employee salaries to increase at rates higher than they have historically. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and loan origination, administrative, credit, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of customer relationships developed by our management and personnel. In particular, our success is highly dependent upon the capabilities of our senior executive management. We believe that our management team, comprised of individuals who have worked in the banking industry for many years, is integral to implementing our business plan. The loss of the services of one or more of them could harm our business. In addition, the scope and content of U.S. banking regulators' policies on incentive compensation, as well as changes to these policies, could adversely affect our ability to hire, retain and motivate our key employees. To mitigate the potential impact of a loss of key personnel, the Company has a management succession plan to ensure that it has a process in place to replace any lost personnel.. <U+FEFF>. Our controls and procedures may fail or be  circumvented.. <U+FEFF>. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures are based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system will be met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, the manifestation of any one of which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders and the risk of unauthorized transactions or operational errors by employees, including clerical or record-keeping errors or errors resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems.. <U+FEFF>. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon. 28. Table of Contents. automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, disease pandemics affecting large numbers of employees or other damage to property or physical assets), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. The occurrence of any of these risks could diminish our ability to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to investigate and correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Negative publicity could damage our reputation and our business.. <U+FEFF>. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Negative public opinion could also result from adverse news or publicity that impairs the reputation of the financial services industry generally. Because we conduct most of our business under the \"Guaranty\" brand, negative public opinion about one business could affect our other businesses.. <U+FEFF>. Our operations rely on external vendors.. <U+FEFF>. We rely on external vendors to provide certain products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. These third party vendors are sources of operational and informational security risk to us, including risks associated with their employees or subcontractors, operational errors, information system interruptions or breaches and unauthorized disclosures of sensitive or confidential client or customer information. If these vendors encounter any of these issues, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, we could be exposed to disruption of operations, loss of service or connectivity to customers, reputational damage, and litigation risk that could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Further, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service agreements. The failure of external vendors to perform in accordance with the contractual terms of a service agreement because of changes in a vendor's organization structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Replacing these external vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.. <U+FEFF>. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to an external vendor, including item processing, electronic banking, mobile banking, debit card processing, and treasury management processing. If this vendor encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with the vendor, it could significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would in turn significantly affect our ability to conduct our business operations. Furthermore, a  breach of the vendor's technology may also cause reimbursable loss to our consumer and business customers, through no fault of our own. Fraud attacks targeting customer-controlled devices, plastic payment card devices such as cash advance machines and ATMs and merchant data collection points provide another source of potential loss, again through no fault of our own. Liability arising from such a security breach or fraud attack could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. An interruption in or breach in security of our information systems may result in a loss of customer business and have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. <U+FEFF>. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business, serving both internal and customer constituencies. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems, or the failure of those used by our suppliers and counterparties, could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. Moreover, any such failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems used to process customer transactions could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible. 29. Table of Contents. financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+FEFF>. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information, whether through a cyber-attack, other breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business.. <U+FEFF>. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on electronic communications and information systems to conduct our operations and to store sensitive data. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in significant disruption to our operations. Information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include attempts to access information, including customer and company information, capture of systems access information, malicious code, computer viruses and denial of service attacks that could result in unauthorized access, misuse, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), account takeovers, unavailability of service or other events. These types of threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of external or internal parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Further, to access our products and services our customers may use computers and mobile devices that are outside the protection of our security control systems. Our technologies, systems, networks and software, and those of other financial institutions have been, and are likely to continue to be, the target of cybersecurity threats and attacks, which may range from uncoordinated individual attempts to sophisticated and targeted measures directed at us. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased.. <U+FEFF>. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of customer data, including personally identifiable information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services. We also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations. The integrity and protection of that customer and Company data is important to us.. <U+FEFF>. Our customers and employees have been, and will continue to be, targeted by parties using fraudulent e-mails and other communications in attempts to misappropriate passwords, bank account information or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware to our information systems or our customers' computers. Though we endeavor to mitigate these threats through product improvements, use of encryption and authentication technology and customer and employee education, such cyber-attacks against us or our merchants and our third party service providers remain a serious issue. The pervasiveness of cybersecurity incidents in general and the risks of cyber-crime are complex and continue to evolve. More generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions.. <U+FEFF>. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our information systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. While to date, we have not experienced a significant data loss or any material financial losses related to cybersecurity attacks, even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable. Attempted security breaches, particularly cyber-attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. While we maintain specific cyber insurance coverage, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. Furthermore, because cyber threat scenarios are inherently difficult to predict and can take many forms, some breaches may not be covered under our cyber insurance coverage. A security breach or other significant disruption of our information systems or those related to our customers, merchants and our third party vendors, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could (i) disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations or those of certain of our customers; (ii) result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers; (iii) result in a violation of applicable privacy, data breach and other laws, subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose us to civil litigation, governmental fines and possible financial liability; (iv) require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; or (v) harm our reputation or cause a. 30. Table of Contents. decrease in the number of customers that choose to do business with us. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. We continually encounter technological change.. <U+FEFF>. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to claims and litigation.. <U+FEFF>. From time to time, customers and other stakeholders make claims and take legal action pertaining to the performance of our professional, regulatory, fiduciary and lender responsibilities. At any given time, these claims are in various stages of the legal process from initial complaints to legal cases currently in appeals. Whether or not these claims and legal actions are founded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for our products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+FEFF>. If we are unable to identify and acquire other financial institutions and successfully integrate our acquired businesses, our business and earnings may be negatively affected.. <U+FEFF>. The market for acquisitions remains highly competitive and we may be unable to find acquisition candidates in the future that fit our acquisition and growth strategy. To the extent that we are unable to find suitable acquisition candidates, an important component of our growth strategy may be lost.. <U+FEFF>. Acquisitions of financial institutions involve operational risks and uncertainties and acquired companies may have unforeseen liabilities, exposure to asset quality problems, key employee and customer retention problems and other problems that could negatively affect the Company. We may not be able to complete future acquisitions and, if we do complete such acquisitions, we may not be able to sell certain pieces acquired or successfully integrate the operations, management, products and services of the entities that we acquire and eliminate redundancies. The integration process could result in the loss of key employees or disruption of the combined entity's ongoing business or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction. The integration process may also require significant time and attention from our management that they would otherwise direct at servicing existing business and developing new business. Our inability to find suitable acquisition candidates and failure to successfully integrate the entities we acquire into our existing operations may increase our operating costs significantly and adversely affect our business and earnings.. <U+FEFF>. Acquisitions may be delayed, impeded, or prohibited due to regulatory issues.. <U+FEFF>. Acquisitions by us, particularly those of financial institutions, are subject to approval by a variety of federal and state regulatory agencies. The process for obtaining these required regulatory approvals has become lengthier and more difficult in recent years. Regulatory approvals could be delayed, impeded, restrictively conditioned or denied due to existing or new regulatory issues that we have, or may have, with regulatory agencies, including, without limitation, issues related to fair lending laws, fair housing laws, consumer protection laws, unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices regulations, Community Reinvestment Act issues and other similar laws and regulations. We may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete strategic and competitively significant acquisition opportunities as a result of our inability, or perceived or anticipated inability, to obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, under reasonable conditions or at all. Difficulties associated with potential acquisitions that may result from these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. 31. Table of Contents. We may experience impairment of goodwill.. <U+FEFF>. During 2016 and 2017, we recorded $56.4 million and $8.7 million in goodwill, respectively. We evaluate this goodwill at least annually for possible impairment. If the goodwill became impaired and not recoverable, it could result in a material non-cash charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. See Note 8, \"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets\" under Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  -  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" for more information on goodwill impairment.. <U+FEFF>. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title.. <U+FEFF>. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation costs and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with the environmental contamination, or we may be required to investigate or clean up the hazardous or toxic substances.  The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. Further, the discovery or presence of hazardous or toxic substances may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit the Company's ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions.. <U+FEFF>. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills, obtaining a loan or transferring funds directly without the assistance of a bank. Further, use of crypto-currency can now be used to facilitate certain financial transactions. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, or \"disintermediation,\" could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. <U+FEFF>. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit.. <U+FEFF>. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment.. <U+FEFF>. Concentrated ownership of our stock may discourage a change in control and have an adverse effect on the share price of our voting common stock and also can influence stockholder decisions.. <U+FEFF>. As of February 16, 2018, executive officers, directors and stockholders of more than 5% of our common stock beneficially owned or controlled approximately 32.3% of our common stock. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. Such a concentration of ownership may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control and may also have an adverse effect on the market price of our voting common stock. In addition, as a result of their ownership, executive officers, directors and stockholders of more than 5% of our common stock may have the ability to influence the outcome of any matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors.. <U+FEFF>. 32. Table of Contents. Our stock price can be volatile.. <U+FEFF>. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for investors to resell our common stock when desired and at attractive prices. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; recommendations by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; changes in government regulations; and geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.. <U+FEFF>. The trading volume in our voting common stock is less than that of larger financial services companies.. <U+FEFF>. Although our voting common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq,  its trading volume is generally less than that of other, larger financial services companies, and investors are not assured that a liquid market will exist at any given time for our voting common stock. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace at any given time of willing buyers and sellers of our voting common stock. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our voting common stock, significant sales of our voting common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall.. <U+FEFF>. The holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our stockholders.. <U+FEFF>. We currently have outstanding an aggregate of $65.0 million in junior subordinated debentures. We conditionally guarantee payments of the principal and interest on the junior subordinated debentures. Our junior subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of the Company's bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of the common stock. With respect to two of the three junior subordinated debenture issuances, the Company has the right to defer periodic distributions for up to 60 months, during which time the Company would be prohibited from paying dividends on its common stock. The Company's ability to pay future distributions depends upon the earnings of the Bank and the dividends from the Bank to the Company, which may be inadequate to service the obligations.. <U+FEFF>. 33. Table of Contents"
