[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. 22. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Risks Related to our Business and Industry. Market conditions for oil and natural gas, and volatility in prices for oil and natural gas, have in the past adversely affected, and may continue in the future to adversely affect, our revenue, cash flows, profitability, growth, production and the present value of our estimated reserves.. Our revenues, cash flows, profitability, future rate of growth, production and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend significantly upon the prevailing prices for natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil.  Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including:. • worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and natural gas;. • the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas;. • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;. • the expected rates of declining current production;. • the level of consumer demand;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • technical advances affecting energy consumption;. • risks associated with operating drilling rigs;. • the availability of pipeline capacity and other transportation facilities;. • the price and level of foreign imports;. • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;. • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls;. • speculative trading in crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts;. • political or economic instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions, including the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;. • the overall domestic and global economic environment; and. • weather conditions, including hurricanes, and other natural disasters that can affect oil and natural gas operations over a wide area.. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty.  During 2016, West Texas intermediate light sweet crude oil, which we refer to as West Texas Intermediate or WTI, prices ranged from $26.19 to $54.01 per barrel and the Henry Hub spot market price of natural gas ranged from $1.49 to $3.80 per MMBtu.  During 2017, WTI prices ranged from $42.48 to $60.46 per barrel and the Henry Hub spot market price of natural gas ranged from $2.44 to $3.71 per MMBtu.  If the prices of oil and natural gas decline, our operations, financial condition and level of expenditures for the development of our oil and natural gas reserves may be materially and adversely affected.  In addition, lower oil and natural gas prices may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically.  This may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves.  If this occurs or if our production estimates change or our exploration or development activities are curtailed, full cost accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties.  Reductions in our reserves could also negatively impact the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility, which could limit our liquidity and ability to conduct additional exploration and development activities.. 23. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Strategic determinations, including the allocation of capital and other resources to strategic opportunities, are challenging, and our failure to appropriately allocate capital and resources among our strategic opportunities may adversely affect our financial condition and reduce our future growth rate.. Our future growth prospects are dependent upon our ability to identify optimal strategies for our business.  In developing our 2018 business plan, we considered allocating capital and other resources to various aspects of our businesses, including well development, reserve acquisitions, midstream infrastructure and other activities.  We also considered our likely sources of capital.  Notwithstanding the determinations made in the development of our 2018 plan, business opportunities not previously identified periodically come to our attention, including possible acquisitions and dispositions.  If we fail to identify optimal business strategies, including the appropriate rate of reserve development, or fail to optimize our capital investment and capital raising opportunities and the use of our other resources in furtherance of our business strategies, our financial condition and growth rate may be adversely affected.  Moreover, economic or other circumstances may change from those contemplated by our 2018 plan, and our failure to recognize or respond to those changes may limit our ability to achieve our objectives.. We periodically engage in acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions, including equity investments and joint ventures such as our recent midstream agreement with Rice.  These transactions involve various inherent risks, such as changes in prevailing market conditions, our ability to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, the timing of and conditions that may be imposed on us by regulators and our ability to achieve benefits anticipated to result from the transactions.  Further, our equity investments and joint venture arrangements may restrict our operational and corporate flexibility and subject us to risks and uncertainties, such as committing us to fund operating and/or capital expenditures, the timing and amount of which we may not be able to control.  Further, the counterparties to these transactions may not satisfy their obligations to the joint venture.  Our inability to complete a transaction or to achieve our strategic or financial goals in any transaction could have significant adverse effects on our earnings, cash flows and financial position.. Concerns over general economic, business or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Concerns over global economic conditions, energy costs, geopolitical issues, inflation, the availability and cost of credit and the European, Asian and the United States financial markets have contributed to economic volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy.  In addition, continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the United States or other countries could adversely affect the global economy.  These factors, combined with volatility in commodity prices, business and consumer confidence and unemployment rates, have in the past precipitated, and may in the future precipitate, an economic slowdown.  Concerns about global economic growth could have a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices.  If the economic climate in the United States or abroad deteriorates, worldwide demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could impact the price at which we can sell our production, affect the ability of our vendors, suppliers and customers to continue operations and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Our development, acquisition and exploration operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves.. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable.  Our proved reserves will generally decline as reserves are depleted, except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both.  To increase reserves and production, we undertake development, exploration and other replacement activities or use third parties to accomplish these activities.  We have made and expect to make in the future substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the development, production, exploration and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves.  For example, we currently estimate our exploration and production capital expenditures for 2018 to be in the range of $630.0 million to $685.0 million and an additional $140.0 million to $150.0 million for leasehold expenditures, primarily lease extensions in the Utica Shale, and for cash capital contributions to our midstream joint venture with EQT in Eastern Ohio.. Historically, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with cash flow from operations, the issuance of equity and debt securities and borrowings under our bank and other credit facilities.  Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:. • our proved reserves;. 24. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • the volume of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells;. • the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold;. • our ability to acquire, locate and produce economically new reserves; and. •  our ability to borrow under our credit facility.. We cannot assure you that our operations and other capital resources will provide cash in sufficient amounts to maintain planned or future levels of capital expenditures.  Further, our actual capital expenditures in 2018 could exceed our capital expenditure budget.  In the event our capital expenditure requirements at any time are greater than the amount of capital we have available, we could be required to seek additional sources of capital, which may include traditional reserve base borrowings, debt financing, joint venture partnerships, production payment financings, sales of assets, offerings of debt or equity securities or other means.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all.. If we are unable to fund our capital requirements, we may be required to curtail our operations relating to the exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves, or we may be otherwise unable to implement our development plan, complete acquisitions or take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations.  In addition, a delay in or the failure to complete proposed or future infrastructure projects could delay or eliminate potential efficiencies.. Our failure to successfully identify, complete and integrate future acquisitions of properties or businesses could reduce our earnings and slow our growth.. There is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry.  The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:. • recoverable reserves;. • future oil and natural gas prices and their applicable differentials;. • operating costs; and. • potential environmental and other liabilities.. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain and we may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities.  In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices.  Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities.  Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken.  Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems.  Even if we do identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms.. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions.  Our ability to complete acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals.  Further, these acquisitions may be in geographic regions in which we do not currently operate, which could result in unforeseen operating difficulties and difficulties in coordinating geographically dispersed operations, personnel and facilities.  In addition, if we enter into new geographic markets, we may be subject to additional and unfamiliar legal and regulatory requirements.  Compliance with regulatory requirements may impose substantial additional obligations on us and our management, cause us to expend additional time and resources in compliance activities and increase our exposure to penalties or fines for non-compliance with such additional legal requirements.  Further, the success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business into our existing operations.  The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources.  In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions.. 25. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets.  Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  The inability to effectively manage the integration of acquisitions could reduce our focus on subsequent acquisitions and current operations, which, in turn, could negatively impact our earnings and growth.  Our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, based on whether or not significant acquisitions are completed in particular periods.. Properties we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties that we acquire or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities.. Acquiring oil and natural gas properties requires us to assess reservoir and infrastructure characteristics, including recoverable reserves, development and operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities.  Such assessments are inexact and inherently uncertain.  In connection with the assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties, but such a review will not necessarily reveal all existing or potential problems.  In the course of our due diligence, we may not inspect every well or pipeline.  We cannot necessarily observe structural and environmental problems, such as pipe corrosion, when an inspection is made.  We may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities created prior to our purchase of the property.  We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations.. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.. It is our practice in acquiring oil and natural gas leases or interests not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest.  Rather, we rely upon the judgment of oil and gas lease brokers or landmen who perform the fieldwork in examining records in the appropriate governmental office before attempting to acquire a lease in a specific mineral interest.  The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Prior to the drilling of an oil or natural gas well, however, it is the normal practice in our industry for the person or company acting as the operator of the well to obtain a preliminary title review to ensure there are no obvious defects in title to the well.  Frequently, as a result of such examinations, certain curative work must be done to correct defects in the marketability of the title, and such curative work entails expense.  Our failure to cure any title defects may delay or prevent us from utilizing the associated mineral interest, which may adversely impact our ability in the future to increase production and reserves.  Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage.  If there are any title defects or defects in the assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss.. Recent decisions by the Ohio Supreme Court interpreting the Ohio Dormant Mineral Act relating to preservation of mineral rights by surface owners could require certain curative efforts to vest title in a portion of our leasehold acreage, increase our leasehold expenses, subject us to payment of additional royalties and/or result in the loss of some of our leasehold acreage in Ohio.. On September 15, 2016, the Ohio Supreme Court issued a series of decisions relating to the Ohio Dormant Mineral Act, which we refer to as the ODMA.  In the lead case, Corban v. Chesapeake Exploration L.L.C., the court concluded that the 1989 version of the ODMA did not transfer ownership of dormant mineral rights automatically, by operation of law.  Instead, prior to 2006, surface owners were required to bring a quiet title action in order to establish abandonment of mineral rights.  After June 30, 2006, (the effective date of the 2006 version of the ODMA), surface owners are required to follow the statutory notice and recording procedures enacted in 2006.  We have assessed the impact of these recent Ohio Supreme Court decisions on our operations in Ohio where the majority of our acreage and our producing properties are located and have taken steps to mitigate any potential risks identified as a result of our assessment.  However, the Ohio Supreme Court decisions could require certain curative efforts to vest title in a portion of our leasehold acreage, increase our leasehold expense, subject us to payment of additional royalties and/or result in the loss of some of our leasehold acreage in Ohio, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 26. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. If we are unable to complete capital projects in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Delays related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results.  Delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce.  Such delays may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits;. • unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor;. • disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials;. • adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers;. • shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages;. • market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and. • nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors.. Any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects.. Our Canadian oil sands projects are complex undertakings and may not be completed at our estimated cost or at all.. We, through our wholly-owned subsidiary Grizzly Holdings Inc., own a 24.9% interest in Grizzly.  As of December 31, 2017, Grizzly had approximately 830,000 net acres under lease in the Athabasca, Peace River and Cold Lake oil sands regions of Alberta, Canada.  Grizzly has high-graded three oil sands projects to various stages of development.  Grizzly commenced commercial production from its Algar Lake Phase 1 SAGD oil sand project during the second quarter of 2014 and has regulatory approval for up to 11,300 barrels per day of bitumen production.  Algar Lake production peaked at 2,200 barrels per day during the ramp-up phase of the SAGD facility, however, in April 2015, Grizzly made the decision to suspend operations at its Algar Lake facility due to the commodity price drop and its effect on project economics.  Grizzly continues to monitor market conditions as it assesses startup plans for the facility.  We reviewed our investment in Grizzly as of September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2015, and again at March 31, 2016, for impairment, resulting in an aggregate other than temporary impairment write down of $101.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 and $23.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2016.  As of and during the period ended December 31, 2017, commodity prices had increased as compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2016, and there were no impairment indicators that required further evaluation for impairment.  If commodity prices decline, further impairment of our investment in Grizzly may result in the future.  The Algar Lake and other pending and proposed projects are complex, subject to extensive governmental regulation and will require significant additional financing.  There can be no assurance that the necessary governmental approvals will be granted or that such financing could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that if one or more of these projects are completed that they will be successful or that we realize a return on our investment.. The unavailability, high cost or shortages of rigs, equipment, raw materials, supplies, oilfield services or personnel may restrict our operations.. The oil and natural gas industry is cyclical, which can result in shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, raw materials (particularly sand and other proppants), supplies and personnel.  When shortages occur, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies increase and demand for and wage rates of qualified drilling rig crews also rise with increases in demand.  In accordance with customary industry practice, we rely on independent third party service providers to provide most of the services necessary to drill new wells.  If we are unable to secure a sufficient number of drilling rigs at reasonable costs, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer, and we may not be able to drill all of our acreage before our leases expire.  Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, raw materials (particularly sand and other proppants), supplies, personnel, trucking services, tubulars, fracking and completion services and production equipment could delay or restrict our exploration and development operations, which in turn could impair our financial condition and results of operations.. 27. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Oil and natural gas production operations, especially those using hydraulic fracturing, are substantially dependent on the availability of water.  Restrictions on the ability to obtain water may impact our operations.. Water is an essential component of oil and natural gas production during the drilling, and in particular, hydraulic fracturing, process.  Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of or recycle water used in our exploration and production operations, could adversely impact our operations.. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could disrupt our operations resulting in a loss of revenues.. Many key responsibilities within our business have been assigned to a small number of employees.  The loss of their services, particularly the loss of Michael G. Moore, our Chief Executive Officer and President, or our other senior management and technical personnel, could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Our executives are not restricted from competing with us if they cease to be employed by us, except under certain limited circumstances prohibiting competition while making use of our trade secrets.  We are party to an employment agreement with certain of our executive officers.  As a practical matter, however, employment agreements may not assure the retention of our employees.  Further, we do not maintain \"key person\" life insurance policies on any of our employees.  As a result, we are not insured against any losses resulting from the death of our key employees.. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and may vary substantially from actual production.. There are numerous uncertainties associated with estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of expenditures.  The reserve information herein represents estimates prepared by (i) Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc., or NSAI, with respect to our Utica Shale acreage and our WCBB and Hackberry fields at December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, our SCOOP acreage at December 31, 2017 and our Niobrara field at December 31, 2015 and (ii) our personnel with respect to our overriding royalty and non-operated interests at December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 and our Niobrara field at December 31, 2017 and 2016.  Petroleum engineering is not an exact science.  Information relating to our proved oil and natural gas reserves is based upon engineering estimates.  Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, future site restoration and abandonment costs, the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, all of which may in fact vary considerably from actual results.  For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially.  Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material.. Estimates of reserves as of year-end 2017, 2016 and 2015 were prepared using an average price equal to the unweighted arithmetic average of hydrocarbon prices received on a field-by-field basis on the first day of each month within the 12-month period ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, in accordance with the revised guidelines of the SEC applicable to reserves estimates for such years.  Reserve estimates do not include any value for probable or possible reserves that may exist, nor do they include any value for undeveloped acreage.  The reserve estimates represent our net revenue interest in our properties.. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.  We base the estimated discounted future net revenue from our proved reserves for 2017, 2016 and 2015 on an average price equal to the unweighted arithmetic average of prices received on a field-by-field basis on the first day of each month within the 12-month period ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, in accordance with the revised guidelines of the SEC applicable to reserves estimates for such years.. Actual future net revenues from our oil and natural gas properties will also be affected by factors such as:. • actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas;. • the amount and timing of actual production;. • supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; and. 28. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • changes in governmental regulations or taxation.. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of costs in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value.  In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general.. SEC rules could limit our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves in the future.. SEC rules require that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years after the date of booking.  This requirement has limited and may continue to limit our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program.  Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill those wells within the required five-year timeframe, because they have become uneconomic or otherwise.. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate.. Approximately 64.9% of our total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2017, were proved undeveloped reserves and may not be ultimately developed or produced.  Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations.  The reserve data included in the reserve reports of our independent petroleum engineers assume that substantial capital expenditures are required to develop such reserves.  We cannot be certain that the estimated costs of the development of these reserves are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results of such development will be as estimated.  Delays in the development of our reserves, further decreases in commodity prices or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the future net revenues of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomical.  In addition, delays in the development of reserves could force us to reclassify certain of our proved reserves as unproved reserves.. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of bitumen reserves and resources in connection with our equity investment in Grizzly and the indicated level of reserves or recovery of bitumen may not be realized.. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of bitumen reserves and resources, and the indicated level of reserves or recovery of bitumen may not be realized.  In general, estimates of economically recoverable bitumen reserves and the future net cash flow from such reserves are based upon a number of factors and assumptions made as of the date on which the reserve and resource estimates were determined, such as geological and engineering estimates which have uncertainties, the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and estimates of future commodity prices and operating costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results.  All such estimates are, to some degree, uncertain and classifications of reserves are only attempts to define the degree of uncertainty involved.  For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable bitumen, the classification of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net revenues expected therefrom, prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially.. Estimates with respect to reserves and resources that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves, rather than upon actual production history.  Estimates based on these methods generally are less reliable than those based on actual production history.  Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history may result in variations in the estimated reserves.  Reserve and resource estimates may require revision based on actual production experience.  Reserve and resources estimates are determined with reference to assumed oil prices and operating costs.  Market price fluctuations of oil prices may render uneconomic the recovery of certain grades of bitumen.  The actual gravity or quality of bitumen to be produced from Grizzly's lands cannot be determined at this time.. The marketability of our production is dependent upon compressors, gathering lines, transportation barges and other facilities, certain of which we do not control.  When these facilities are unavailable, our operations can be interrupted and our revenues reduced.. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas lines and transportation barges owned by third parties.  In general, we do not control these transportation facilities and our access to them may be limited or denied.  A significant disruption in the availability of these transportation facilities or. 29. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. our compression and other production facilities could adversely impact our ability to deliver to market or produce our oil and natural gas and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations.  With respect to our Utica Shale acreage where we are focusing a portion of our exploration and development activity, historically there has been no or only limited infrastructure in this area and the commencement of production from our initial and subsequent wells on our Utica Shale acreage has been delayed due to challenges in obtaining rights-of-way and acquiring necessary state and federal permitting and the completion of facilities by our midstream service provider.. If production from our Utica Shale or SCOOP acreage decreases due to decreased developmental activities, production related difficulties or otherwise, we may fail to meet our firm commitment delivery obligations under our firm transportation contracts, which will result in fees and may have a material adverse effect on our operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had entered into firm transportation contracts to deliver approximately 1,095,000 MMBtu to 1,245,000 MMBtu per day for 2018 and approximately 1,205,000 MMBtu to 1,405,000 MMBtu per day for 2019 through 2020.  See Item 1. \"Business-Transportation and Takeaway Capacity.\"  Under these firm transportation contracts, we are obligated to deliver minimum daily volumes or pay fees for any deficiencies in deliveries.  If production from our Utica Shale or SCOOP acreage decreases due to decreased developmental activities, taking into consideration the current low commodity price environment, production related difficulties or otherwise, we may be unable to meet our obligations under the existing firm transportation contracts, resulting in fees, which may be significant and may have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Substantially all of our producing properties are located in Eastern Ohio, Oklahoma and Louisiana, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in these regions.. Our largest fields by production are located in Eastern Ohio, Oklahoma and approximately five miles off the coast of Louisiana in a shallow bay with water depths averaging eight to ten feet.  As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production in these geographic regions caused by weather conditions such as snow, ice, fog, rain, hurricanes or other natural disasters or lack of field infrastructure.  Losses could occur for uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of any existing insurance coverage.  We may not be able to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable and it is possible that certain types of coverage may not be available.. Our identified drilling locations, which are part of our anticipated future drilling plans, are susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling.. We have identified over 1,000 drilling locations on our Ohio, Oklahoma and Louisiana properties assuming full development of all of our acreage.  These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy.  Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, oil and natural gas prices, inclement weather, costs, drilling results and regulatory changes.  Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations.  As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business.. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that may result in a total loss of investment and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks.  For example, we cannot assure you that new wells drilled by us will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells.  Drilling for oil and natural gas often involves unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient oil or natural gas to return a profit at then realized prices after deducting drilling, operating and other costs.  The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or that it can be produced economically.  The costs of exploration, exploitation and development activities are subject to numerous uncertainties beyond our control, and increases in those costs can adversely affect the economics of a project.  Further, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed, canceled or otherwise negatively impacted as a result of other factors, including:. • unusual or unexpected geological formations;. • loss of drilling fluid circulation;. 30. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • title problems;. • facility or equipment malfunctions;. • unexpected operational events;. • shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services;. • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; and. • adverse weather conditions.. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination or loss of wells and other regulatory penalties.. Operating hazards and uninsured risks may result in substantial losses and could prevent us from realizing profits.. Our operations are subject to all of the hazards and operating risks associated with drilling for and production of oil and natural gas, including the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, surface cratering, uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil and formation water, pipe or pipeline failures, abnormally pressured formations, casing collapses and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases.  In addition, our operations are subject to risks associated with hydraulic fracturing, including any mishandling, surface spillage or potential underground migration of fracturing fluids, including chemical additives.  We may face liability for environmental damage caused by previous owners of properties purchased by us, which liabilities may or may not be covered by insurance.  The occurrence of any of these events could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties, suspension of operations and repairs required to resume operations.. In accordance with what we believe to be customary industry practice, we historically have maintained insurance against some, but not all, of our business risks.  Our insurance may not be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities we may suffer.  Also, insurance may no longer be available to us or, if it is, its availability may be at premium levels that do not justify its purchase.  The occurrence of a significant uninsured claim, a claim in excess of the insurance coverage limits maintained by us or a claim at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct normal business operations and on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.  We may not be able to secure additional insurance or bonding that might be required by new governmental regulations.  This may cause us to restrict our operations, which might severely impact our financial position.  A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations may be exposed to significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety requirements applicable to our business activities.. We may incur significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of federal, state and local environmental, health and safety requirements applicable to our exploration, development and production activities.  These laws and regulations may, among other things: (i) require us to obtain a variety of permits or other authorizations governing our air emissions, water discharges, waste disposal or other environmental impacts associated with drilling, producing and other operations; (ii) regulate the sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling, fracturing and completion processes; (iii) limit or prohibit drilling activities in certain areas and on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, frontier, seismically active areas and other protected areas; (iv) require remedial action to prevent or mitigate pollution from former operations such as plugging abandoned wells or closing earthen pits; and/or (v) impose substantial liabilities and restrictions on our activities as a result of spills, pollution or failure to comply with regulatory filings.  In addition, these laws and regulations may restrict the rate of oil or natural gas production.  These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly stringent over time.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the suspension or revocation of necessary permits, licenses and authorizations (which could cause us to cease operations), the requirement that additional pollution controls be installed and, in some instances, issuance of orders or injunctions limiting or requiring discontinuation of certain operations.  Under certain environmental laws that impose strict as well as joint and several liability, we may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly operated by us or facilities of third parties that received waste generated by our. 31. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. operations regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken.  In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations.  In addition, the risk of accidental and/or unpermitted spills or releases from our operations could expose us to significant liabilities, penalties and other sanctions under applicable laws.. Moreover, public interest in the protection of the environment has tended to increase over time.  To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restricts drilling or imposes more stringent and costly operating, waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our development and exploratory drilling efforts and our well operations may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns.. We acquire significant amounts of unproved property in order to further our development efforts and expect to continue to undertake acquisitions in the future.  Development and exploratory drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered.  We acquire unproved properties and lease undeveloped acreage that we believe will enhance our growth potential and increase our earnings over time.  However, we cannot assure you that all prospects will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our investments.  Additionally, we cannot assure you that unproved property acquired by us or undeveloped acreage leased by us will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such unproved property or wells.. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient commercial quantities to cover the drilling, operating and other costs.  The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and many factors can adversely affect the economics of a well or property.  Drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of unexpected drilling conditions, equipment failures or accidents, shortages of equipment or personnel, environmental issues and for other reasons.  In addition, wells that are profitable may not meet our internal return targets, which are dependent upon the current and expected future market prices for oil and natural gas, expected costs associated with producing oil and natural gas and our ability to add reserves at an acceptable cost.  Drilling results in our newer oil and liquids-rich shale plays may be more uncertain than in shale plays that are more developed and have longer established production histories, and we can provide no assurance that drilling and completion techniques that have proven to be successful in other shale formations to maximize recoveries will be ultimately successful when used in newly developed shale formations.. Part of our strategy involves drilling in existing or emerging shale plays using the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques; therefore, the results of our planned exploratory drilling in these plays are subject to risks associated with drilling and completion techniques and drilling results may not meet our expectations for reserves or production.. Our operations involve utilizing the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers.  Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, landing our well bore in the desired drilling zone, staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, running our casing the entire length of the well bore and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal well bore.  Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, being able to run tools the entire length of the well bore during completion operations and successfully cleaning out the well bore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.  In addition, to the extent we engage in horizontal drilling, those activities may adversely affect our ability to successfully drill in one or more of our identified vertical drilling locations.  Furthermore, certain of the new techniques we are adopting, such as infill drilling and multi-well pad drilling, may cause irregularities or interruptions in production due to, in the case of infill drilling, offset wells being shut in and, in the case of multi-well pad drilling, the time required to drill and complete multiple wells before any such wells begin producing.  The results of our drilling in new or emerging formations are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production.  Newer or emerging formations and areas often have limited or no production history and consequently we are less able to predict future drilling results in these areas.. Ultimately, the success of these drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period.  If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems, and/or declines in natural gas and oil prices, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as. 32. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. attractive as we anticipate.  Further, as a result of any of these developments we could incur material write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. We have been an early entrant into the SCOOP play in Oklahoma.  As a result, our drilling results in this area may vary, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful.. We have been an early entrant into the SCOOP play in Oklahoma.  On February 17, 2017, we completed our SCOOP acquisition, which included approximately 46,000 net surface acres with multiple producing zones, including the Woodford and Springer formations in the SCOOP resource play, in Grady, Stephens and Garvin Counties, Oklahoma.  The area was historically developed by vertical wells drilled through multiple stacked reservoirs; however, the current play represents the transition to mainly horizontal development.  As a developing play, our drilling results in this area are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have been producing for a longer period of time.  Since limited production history from horizontal wells in the SCOOP exists and since we have limited experience drilling in this play, it is difficult to predict our future drilling results.  Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells in this area may be higher than initially expected, and the value of our undeveloped acreage in the SCOOP may decline if drilling results are unsuccessful.  We cannot assure you that unproved property acquired, or undeveloped acreage leased, by us in the SCOOP or other emerging plays will be profitably developed, that wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such unproved property or wells.. A key part of our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application.. Our operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers.  Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, the following:. •effectively controlling the level of pressure flowing from particular wells;. •landing our wellbore in the desired drilling zone;. •staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation;. •running our casing the entire length of the wellbore; and. •being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore.. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, the following:. •the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages;. •the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and. •the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. The results of our drilling in new or emerging formations (including the SCOOP) are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production.  Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history and, consequently, we are more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas.  If our drilling results are less than anticipated, the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as we anticipated and we could incur material write-downs of unevaluated properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. We are not the operator of all of our oil and natural gas properties and therefore are not in a position to control the timing of development efforts, the associated costs or the rate of production of the reserves on such properties.. We are not the operator of all of the properties in which we have an interest, and have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of such non-operated properties or their associated costs.  Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects, and limited ability to influence operations and associated costs, could prevent the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities.  The success and timing of development and exploration. 33. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. activities on properties operated by others will depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including:. • the timing and amount of capital expenditures;. • the availability of suitable drilling equipment, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel;. • the operator's expertise and financial resources;. • approval of other participants in drilling wells;. • selection of technology; and. • the rate of production of the reserves.. In addition, when we are not the majority owner or operator of a particular oil or natural gas project, if we are not willing or able to fund our capital expenditures relating to such projects when required by the majority owner or operator, our interests in these projects may be reduced or forfeited.. A significant portion of our net leasehold acreage is undeveloped, and that acreage may not ultimately be developed or become commercially productive, which could cause us to lose rights under our leases as well as have a material adverse effect on our oil and natural gas reserves and future production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income.. A significant portion of our net leasehold acreage is undeveloped, or acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.  In addition, many of our oil and natural gas leases require us to drill wells that are commercially productive, and if we are unsuccessful in drilling such wells, we could lose our rights under such leases.  Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income are highly dependent on successfully developing our undeveloped leasehold acreage.. Our undeveloped acreage must be drilled before lease expiration to hold the acreage by production.  In highly competitive markets for acreage, failure to drill sufficient wells to hold acreage could result in a substantial lease renewal cost or, if renewal is not feasible, loss of our lease and prospective drilling opportunities.. Unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the locations are identified, the leases for such acreage will expire.  Approximately 22% of our total Utica Shale undeveloped acreage will be subject to expiration in 2018, with 8% of such acreage expiring in 2019, 9% in 2020 and 17% thereafter, although our Utica Shale leases generally grant us the right to extend these leases for an additional five-year period.  As of December 31, 2017, leases representing 6%, 67% and 5% respectively, of our total SCOOP undeveloped acreage are schedule to expire in 2018, 2019 and 2020.  As of December 31, 2017, leases representing 11% and 53%, respectively, of our total Niobrara Formation undeveloped acreage are scheduled to expire in 2018 and 2019.  The cost to renew expiring leases may increase significantly, and we may not be able to renew such leases on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  If we are unable to fund renewals of expiring leases, we could lose portions of our acreage and our actual drilling activities may differ materially from our current expectations, which could adversely affect our business.. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas.  The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations are subject to various governmental laws and regulations which require compliance that can be burdensome and expensive and could expose us to significant liabilities.. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various federal, state and local governmental regulations that may be changed from time to time in response to economic and political conditions.  Matters subject to regulation include discharge. 34. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation.  From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity to conserve supplies of oil and gas.  In addition, the production, handling, storage, transportation, remediation, emission and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations are subject to regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those relating to protection of human health and the environment.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, permit revocations, requirements for additional pollution controls and injunctions limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations.  Moreover, these laws and regulations impose increasingly strict requirements for water and air pollution control and solid waste management, which trend may continue.  Significant expenditures may be required to comply with governmental laws and regulations applicable to us.  See Item 1. \"Business-Regulation-Environmental Matters and Regulation\" and Item 1. \"Business-Regulation-Other Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry\" for a description of certain laws and regulations that affect us.. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations, including shales.  We use hydraulic fracturing extensively in connection with the development and production of certain of our oil and natural gas properties.  The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production.  There has been increasing public controversy regarding hydraulic fracturing with regard to the use of fracturing fluids, impacts on drinking water supplies, use of water and the potential for impacts to surface water, groundwater and the environment generally.  A number of lawsuits and enforcement actions have been initiated across the country implicating hydraulic fracturing practices.  The hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions.  However, legislation has been proposed in recent sessions of Congress to amend the SDWA to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the definition of \"underground injection,\" to require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, and to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process.  Furthermore, several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process.. In addition, several states and local jurisdictions in which we operate or hold oil and natural gas interests have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose more stringent operating standards and/or require the disclosure of the composition of hydraulic fracturing fluids.  For a more detailed discussion of federal, state and local laws and initiatives concerning hydraulic fracturing, see Item 1. \"Business-Regulation-Regulation of Hydraulic Fracturing\" above.. If new laws or regulations are adopted that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations as well as make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater.  In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is further regulated at the federal, state or local level, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, plugging and abandonment requirements and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs.  Such legislative changes could reduce the volumes of oil and natural gas that we can recover economically and cause us to incur substantial compliance costs.  Reduced production and/or compliance or the consequences of any failure to comply by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity could restrict our drilling and production activities, as well as our ability to dispose of produced water gathered from such activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. State and federal regulatory agencies have recently focused on a possible connection between hydraulic fracturing related activities, particularly the underground injection of wastewater into disposal wells, and the increased occurrence of seismic activity, and regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and gas activity and induced seismicity.  In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed in some states, including in Oklahoma, alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal.  In response to these concerns, regulators in some states are seeking to impose additional requirements,. 35. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. including requirements regarding the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess the relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells.. We dispose of large volumes of produced water gathered from our drilling and production operations in our Louisiana fields by injecting it into wells pursuant to permits issued to us by governmental authorities overseeing such disposal activities.  While these permits are issued pursuant to existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change, which could result in the imposition of more stringent operating constraints or new monitoring and reporting requirements, owing to, among other things, concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such gathering or disposal activities.  The adoption and implementation of any new laws or regulations that restrict our ability to use hydraulic fracturing or dispose of produced water gathered from our drilling and production activities by own disposal wells, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  We do not currently inject produced water in our Utica or SCOOP operations.. Restrictions on drilling activities intended to protect certain species of wildlife may adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate.. Oil and natural gas operations in our operating areas can be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions on drilling activities designed to protect various wildlife species or their habitat.  Seasonal restrictions may limit our ability to operate in protected areas and can intensify competition for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages when drilling is allowed.  These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs.  Permanent restrictions imposed to protect threatened or endangered species could prohibit drilling in certain areas or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures.  The designation of previously unprotected species in areas where we operate as threatened or endangered could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on our exploration and production activities that could have an adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce our reserves.. The adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.. The adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.  The U.S. Congress adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (HR 4173), or Dodd-Frank Act, which, among other provisions, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market.  The legislation was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010.  In its rulemaking under the legislation, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, has issued a final rule on position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents (with exemptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions).  The CFTC's final rule was set aside by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on September 28, 2012 and remanded to the CFTC to resolve ambiguity as to whether statutory requirements for such limits to be determined necessary and appropriate were satisfied.  As a result, the rule has not yet taken effect, although the CFTC has indicated that it intends to appeal the court's decision and that it believes the Dodd-Frank Act requires it to impose position limits.  The impact of such regulations upon our business is not yet clear.  Certain of our hedging and trading activities and those of our counterparties may be subject to the position limits, which may reduce our ability to enter into hedging transactions.. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act does not explicitly exempt end users (such as us) from the requirement to use cleared exchanges, rather than hedging over-the-counter, and the requirements to post margin in connection with hedging activities.  While it is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will finalize certain other related rules and regulations, the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations may require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although whether these requirements will apply to our business is uncertain at this time.  If the regulations ultimately adopted require that we post margin for our hedging activities or require our counterparties to hold margin or maintain capital levels, the cost of which could be passed through to us, or impose other requirements that are more burdensome than current regulations, our hedging would become more expensive and we may decide to alter our hedging strategy.. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our existing or future derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time.  The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current. 36. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. counterparties.  The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our derivative contracts in existence at that time, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties.  If we reduce or change the way we use derivative instruments as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures.  Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas.  Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices.  Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Regulation of greenhouse emissions could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce.. In recent years, federal, state and local governments have taken steps to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHGs.  The EPA has finalized a series of GHG monitoring, reporting and emissions control rules for oil and natural gas industry, and the U.S. Congress has, from time to time, considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions.  Almost one-half of the states have already taken measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap-and-trade programs.  While we are subject to certain federal GHG monitoring and reporting requirements, our operations currently are not adversely impacted by existing federal, state and local climate change initiatives.  For a description of GHG existing and proposed rules and regulations, see Item 1. \"Business-Regulation-Environmental Regulation-Climate Change.\". Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations.  In addition, substantial limitations on GHG emissions could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce.. In addition, there have also been efforts in recent years to influence the investment community, including investment advisors and certain sovereign wealth, pension and endowment funds promoting divestment of fossil fuel equities and pressuring lenders to limit funding to companies engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves.  Such environmental activism and initiatives aimed at limiting climate change and reducing air pollution could interfere with our business activities, operations and ability to access capital.  Furthermore, claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that GHG emissions from oil and natural gas operations constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law.  As a result, private individuals or public entities may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury, property damages or other liabilities.  While our business is not a party to any such litigation, we could be named in actions making similar allegations.  An unfavorable ruling in any such case could significantly impact our operations and could have an adverse impact on our financial condition.  Moreover, there has been public discussion that climate change may be associated with extreme weather conditions such as more intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms, as well as rising sea levels.  Another possible consequence of climate change is increased volatility in seasonal temperatures.  Some studies indicate that climate change could cause some areas to experience temperatures substantially hotter or colder than their historical averages.  Extreme weather conditions can interfere with our production and increase our costs and damage resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured.  However, at this time, we are unable to determine the extent to which climate change may lead to increased storm or weather hazards affecting our operations.. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase.. Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act of 1938, or the NGA, exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by FERC.  We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish whether a pipeline performs a gathering function and therefore is exempt from FERC's jurisdiction under the NGA.  However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is a fact-based determination.  The classification of facilities as unregulated gathering is the subject of ongoing litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress, which could cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase and may materially adversely affect our business,. 37. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. financial condition or results of operations.  Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time.  Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We face extensive competition in our industry.. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources.  Many of these companies not only explore for and produce oil and natural gas, but also carry on midstream and refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis.  These competitors may be better positioned to take advantage of industry opportunities and to withstand changes affecting the industry, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and production, the availability of alternative energy sources and the application of government regulation.. The loss of one or more of the purchasers of our production could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The largest purchaser of our oil and natural gas during the year ended December 31, 2017 accounted for approximately 40% of our total oil, natural gas and NGL revenues.  If this purchaser, or one or more other significant purchasers, are unable to satisfy its contractual obligations, we may be unable to sell such production to other customers on terms we consider acceptable.  Further, the inability of one or more of our customers to pay amounts owed to us could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our method of accounting for oil and natural gas properties may result in impairment of asset value.. We use the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas operations.  Accordingly, all costs, including nonproductive costs and certain general and administrative costs associated with acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties, are capitalized.  Net capitalized costs are limited to the estimated future net revenues, after income taxes, discounted at 10% per year, from proven oil and natural gas reserves and the cost of the properties not subject to amortization.  Such capitalized costs, including the estimated future development costs and site remediation costs, if any, are depleted by an equivalent units-of-production method, converting natural gas to barrels at the ratio of six Mcf of natural gas to one barrel of oil.. Companies that use the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties are required to perform a ceiling test each quarter.  The test determines a limit, or ceiling, on the book value of the oil and gas properties.  Net capitalized costs are limited to the lower of unamortized cost net of deferred income taxes or the cost center ceiling.  The cost center ceiling is defined as the sum of (a) estimated future net revenues, discounted at 10% per annum, from proved reserves, based on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month prices for 2017, 2016 and 2015 adjusted for any contract provisions or financial derivatives, if any, that hedge oil and natural gas revenue, excluding the estimated abandonment costs for properties with asset retirement obligations recorded on the balance sheet, (b) the cost of properties not being amortized, if any, and (c) the lower of cost or market value of unproved properties included in the cost being amortized, less income tax effects related to differences between the book and tax basis of the oil and natural gas properties.  If the net book value reduced by the related net deferred income tax liability exceeds the ceiling, an impairment or noncash writedown is required.  A ceiling test impairment can give us a significant loss for a particular period.  Once incurred, a write down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible at a later date, even if oil or gas prices increase.  As a result of the decline in commodity prices, we recognized a ceiling test impairment of $715.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2016.  If prices of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids continue to decrease, we may be required to further write down the value of our oil and natural gas properties.  Future non-cash asset impairments could negatively affect our results of operations.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation as well as future U.S. and state tax legislations may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law Public Law No. 115-97, a comprehensive tax reform bill commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act, that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code.  Among other changes, the Tax Act (i) permanently reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate, (ii) repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax, (iii) eliminates the deduction for certain domestic production activities, (iv) imposes new limitations on the utilization of net operating losses, and (v) provides for more general changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to cost recovery rules and to the deductibility of interest expense.  The Tax Act is complex and far-reaching, and we cannot predict with certainty the resulting impact its enactment will have on us.  The ultimate impact of. 38. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. the Tax Act may differ from our estimates due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by us as well as additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, and any such changes in our interpretations and assumptions could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. In addition, from time to time, legislation has been proposed that, if enacted into law, would make significant changes to U.S. federal and state income tax laws affecting the oil and gas industry.  For example, legislations have been introduced in the past to (i) eliminate the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs, (ii) repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties; and (iii) extend the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures.  While these specific changes are not included in the Tax Act, no accurate prediction can be made as to whether any such legislative changes will be proposed or enacted in the future or, if enacted, what the specific provisions or the effective date of any such legislation would be.  These proposed changes in the U.S. tax law, if adopted, or other similar changes that would impose additional tax on our activities or reduce or eliminate deductions currently available with respect to natural gas and oil exploration, development or similar activities, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Additional state taxes on natural gas extraction may be imposed as a result of future legislation.. In February 2013, the Governor of the State of Ohio proposed a plan in the Ohio House to enact new severance taxes on the oil and gas industry.  The proposal was part of the state budget bill.  Due to pressure from the State Senate, the proposal was removed from the bill.  The bill then passed without the severance tax on June 7, 2013, with an effective date of July 1, 2013.  Later in 2013, the Ohio House introduced a stand-alone bill to address the severance tax.  HB 375 was introduced on December 4, 2013 and after many hearings and amendments, contained a 2.5% severance tax on horizontal drillers with a percentage of the proceeds earmarked for affected communities in Southeastern Ohio.  This bill passed the Ohio House on May 14, 2014.  The Ohio State Senate held a hearing on the bill, but there was no further movement before the recess of that General Assembly.. In February 2015, the Governor of Ohio proposed another plan to the new General Assembly to enact new severance taxes on the oil and gas industry.  This proposal was part of a state budget proposal to finance a reduction in personal income taxes and other initiatives.  The proposal would have imposed a 6.5% tax on oil and gas sold at the wellhead.  This severance tax increase was removed from the Bill that was ultimately passed by the Ohio House.. A new General Assembly took office in January 2017, and the Governor of Ohio proposed a new severance tax initiative.  The proposal would impose a fixed rate of 6.5% for crude oil and natural gas when sold at the wellhead and a lower rate of 4.5% at later stages of distribution for natural gas and natural gas liquids.  The proposal was again met with opposition and was not included in the final budget that was passed and signed by the Governor on June 30, 2017 and effective for the period of July 1, 2017 through June 30, 2019.. These proposed changes in the U.S. and applicable state tax law, if adopted, or other similar changes that tax our production or reduce or eliminate deductions currently available with respect to natural gas and oil exploration and development, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our use of 2-D and 3-D seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations.. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures.  In addition, the use of 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater predrilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of such expenditures.  As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical.. We are exposed to fluctuations in the price of natural gas and oil.  Although we have hedged a portion of our estimated 2018 production, we may still be adversely affected by continuing and prolonged declines in the price of natural gas and oil.. We use derivative instruments to reduce price volatility associated with certain of our oil and natural gas sales, but these hedges may be inadequate to protect us from continuing and prolonged declines in the price of oil and natural gas.  For information regarding these derivative instruments, see Item 7A. \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.\"  Such arrangements may expose us to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances where production is less than expected or oil and natural gas prices increase.  Further, to the extent that the price of oil and natural gas remains at current. 39. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. levels or declines further, we will not be able to hedge future production at the same level as our current hedges, and our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively impacted.. Our hedging transactions expose us to counterparty credit risk.. Our hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract.  Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty's liquidity, which could make them unable to perform under the terms of the derivative contract and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the derivative contract.. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business.. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the United States or other countries may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations.  If any of these events occur, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on demand for our services and causing a reduction in our revenues.  Oil and natural gas related facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our customers' operations is destroyed or damaged.  Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all.. Loss of our information and computer systems could adversely affect our business.. We are dependent on our information systems and computer based programs, including our well operations information, seismic data, electronic data processing and accounting data.  If any of such programs or systems were to fail or create erroneous information in our hardware or software network infrastructure, whether due to cyber attack or otherwise, possible consequences include our loss of communication links, inability to find, produce, process and sell oil and natural gas and inability to automatically process commercial transactions or engage in similar automated or computerized business activities.  Any such consequence could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to cyber security risks.  A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss.. The oil and natural gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development, production, and processing activities.  For example, we depend on digital technologies to interpret seismic data, manage drilling rigs, production equipment and gathering systems, conduct reservoir modeling and reserves estimation, and process and record financial and operating data.  At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have increased.  The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats.  Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of its vendors, suppliers and other business partners, may become the target of cyberattacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of its business operations.  In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period.  Our systems and insurance coverage for protecting against cyber security risks may not be sufficient.  As cyber incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents.. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total indebtedness (net of unamortized debt issuance costs) of approximately $2.0 billion, primarily attributable to our senior notes.  We had borrowing base availability of $759.0 million under our secured revolving credit facility after giving effect to an aggregate of $241.0 million of letters of credit and no outstanding borrowings.. Our outstanding indebtedness could have important consequences to you, including the following:. • our high level of indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations under any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in a default under our secured revolving credit facility or the senior note indentures;. 40. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • the restrictions imposed on the operation of our business by the terms of our debt agreements may hinder our ability to take advantage of strategic opportunities to grow our business;. • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, restructuring, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired, which could be exacerbated by further volatility in the credit markets;. • we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our senior notes and our other indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes;. • our level of indebtedness could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt;. • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited;. • our high level of indebtedness makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; and. • we may be vulnerable to interest rate increases, as our borrowings under our secured revolving credit facility are at variable interest rates.. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. In addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, or interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness.  In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest.  More specifically, the lenders under our secured revolving credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or litigation.. Servicing our indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial indebtedness.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our senior notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control.  Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures.  If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive.  However, we cannot assure you that undertaking alternative financing plans, if necessary, would allow us to meet our debt obligations.  In the absence of such cash flows, we could have substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations.  Our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict our ability to use the proceeds from asset sales.  We may not be able to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair, and proceeds that we do receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.  Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at the time.  We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations and have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. Restrictive covenants in our secured revolving credit facility, the indentures governing our senior notes and in future debt instruments may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.. Our secured revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes limit, and the terms of any future indebtedness may limit, our ability, among other things, to:. 41. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;. • make certain investments;. • declare or pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock;. • prepay subordinated indebtedness;. • sell assets including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries;. • agree to payment restrictions affecting our restricted subsidiaries;. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. • enter into transactions with our affiliates;. • incur liens;. • engage in business other than the oil and gas business; and. • designate certain of our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.. We may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants contained in our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes.  In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and tests.  The requirement that we comply with these provisions may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures or withstand a continuing or future downturn in our business.. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants could result in default under our revolving credit facility.  If default occurs, the lenders under our revolving credit facility may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, which would result in an event of default under the indentures governing our senior notes.  The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings.  If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under our revolving credit facility will also have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the indebtedness.  If the indebtedness under our revolving credit facility and our senior notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness.. 42. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Any significant reduction in our borrowing base under our revolving credit facility as a result of the periodic borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise may negatively impact our ability to fund our operations, and we may not have sufficient funds to repay borrowings under our revolving credit facility if required as a result of a borrowing base redetermination.. Availability under our revolving credit facility is currently subject to a borrowing base of $1.2 billion, with an elected commitment of $1.0 billion.  The borrowing base is subject to scheduled semiannual and other elective collateral borrowing base redeterminations based on our oil and natural gas reserves and other factors.  As of December 31, 2017, we had no borrowings under our revolving credit facility.  However, we intend to borrow under our revolving credit facility in the future.  Any significant reduction in our borrowing base as a result of such borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise may negatively impact our liquidity and our ability to fund our operations and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and cash flow.  Further, if the outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility were to exceed the borrowing base as a result of any such redetermination, we would be required to repay the excess.  We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments.  If we do not have sufficient funds and we are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, we may have to sell significant assets.  Any such sale could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. We may still be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future.  The terms of our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict, but in each case do not completely prohibit, us from doing so.  As of December 31, 2017, our borrowing base under our revolving credit facility was set at $1.2 billion, with an elected commitment of $1.0 billion, and we had no borrowings outstanding under this facility.  In addition, the indentures governing our senior notes allow us to issue additional notes under certain circumstances which will also be guaranteed by the guarantors.  The indentures governing our senior notes also allow us to incur certain other additional secured debt and allow us to have subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes and which may incur additional debt, which would be structurally senior to our senior notes.  In addition, the indentures governing our senior notes do not prevent us from incurring other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness.  If we or a guarantor incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with our senior notes (or with the guarantees thereof), including additional unsecured indebtedness or trade payables, the holders of that indebtedness will be entitled to share ratably with holders of our senior notes in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding-up of us or a guarantor.  If new debt or other liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify.. Our borrowings under our revolving credit facility expose us to interest rate risk.. Our earnings are exposed to interest rate risk associated with borrowings under our revolving credit facility.  Our revolving credit facility is structured under floating rate terms, as advances under this facility may be in the form of either base rate loans or eurodollar loans.  As such, our interest expense is sensitive to fluctuations in the prime rates in the U.S. or, if the eurodollar rates are elected, the eurodollar rates.  At December 31, 2017, we had no variable interest rate borrowings outstanding; therefore, an increase in interest rates would not have impacted our interest expense.  However, any increase in our interest rate at the time we do have variable interest rate borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility will increase our costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  As of December 31, 2017, we did not hedge our interest rate risk.. If we experience liquidity concerns, we could face a downgrade in our debt ratings which could restrict our access to, and negatively impact the terms of, current or future financings or trade credit.. Our ability to obtain financings and trade credit and the terms of any financings or trade credit are, in part, dependent on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies.  We cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant.  Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales and near-term and long-term production growth opportunities, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix and commodity pricing levels.  A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability to access financings or trade credit and increase our borrowing costs.. 43. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. If our quarterly revenues and operating results fluctuate significantly, the price of our common stock may be volatile.. Our revenues and operating results may in the future vary significantly from quarter to quarter.  If our quarterly results fluctuate, it may cause our stock price to be volatile.  We believe that a number of factors could cause these fluctuations, including:. • changes in oil and natural gas prices;. • changes in production levels;. • changes in governmental regulations and taxes;. • geopolitical developments;. • the level of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; and. • conditions in the oil and natural gas industry and the overall economic environment.. Because of the factors listed above, among others, we believe that our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating results may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful.  You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance.  It is also possible that in some future quarters, our operating results will fall below our expectations or the expectations of market analysts and investors.  If we do not meet these expectations, the price of our common stock may decline significantly.. We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the future.. We have paid no cash dividends on our common stock, and we may not pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future.  We intend to retain any earnings to fund our operations.  Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.  In addition, the terms of our credit agreement prohibit the payment of any dividends to the holders of our common stock.. There is no guarantee that we will repurchase shares of our common stock under our recently announced stock repurchase program at a level anticipated by our stockholders, which could reduce returns to our stockholders.  Decisions to repurchase our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors based upon a review of relevant considerations.. In January 2018, our board of directors approved a stock repurchase program to acquire up to $100.0 million of our outstanding common stock during 2018.  The repurchase program does not require us to acquire any specific number of shares and, as of February 22, 2018, we have not repurchased any shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase program or otherwise.  Our board of director's determination to repurchase shares of our common stock will depend upon market conditions, applicable legal requirements, contractual obligations and other factors that the board of directors deems relevant.  Based on an evaluation of these factors, our board of directors may determine not to repurchase shares or to repurchase shares at reduced levels from those anticipated by our stockholders, any or all of which could reduce returns to our stockholders.. A change of control could limit our use of net operating losses.. As of December 31, 2017, we had a net operating loss, or NOL, carry forward of approximately $574.4 million for federal income tax purposes.  If we were to experience an \"ownership change,\" as determined under Section 382 of the Code, our ability to offset taxable income arising after the ownership change with NOLs generated prior to the ownership change would be limited, possibly substantially.  In general, an ownership change would establish an annual limitation on the amount of our pre-change NOLs we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any future taxable year to an amount generally equal to the value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate.  In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative increase in our ownership of more than 50 percentage points by one or more \"5% shareholders\" (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code) at any time during a rolling three-year period.. 44. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price.. We have registered a substantial number of shares of our common stock under a registration statement filed with the SEC.  Sales of these shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.  In addition, sales by certain of our stockholders of their shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of common or preferred stock.  As of February 12, 2018, there were 183,105,910 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding, excluding 976,027 shares of unvested restricted stock awarded under our Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Incentive Plan.. We could issue preferred stock which could be entitled to dividend, liquidation and other special rights and preferences not shared by holders of our common stock or which could have anti-takeover effects.. We are authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share.  Shares of preferred stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series as our board of directors, by resolution or resolutions, may from time to time determine each such series to be distinctively designated.  The voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, if any, of each such series of preferred stock may differ from those of any and all other series of preferred stock at any time outstanding, and, subject to certain limitations of our certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, our board of directors may fix or alter, by resolution or resolutions, the designation, number, voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of each such series preferred stock.  The issuance of any such preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and, therefore, could reduce the value of our common stock.. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party.  The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could discourage, delay or prevent a takeover of us, thereby preserving control of the company by the current stockholders.. The existence of some provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change would be beneficial to our stockholders.  Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make acquiring control of our company difficult."
