[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements see \"Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Information\". These risk factors may be important to understanding other statements in this Report on Form 10-K. The following information should be read in conjunction with \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes found elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K.. Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause our actual financial condition and operating results to vary materially those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, stock price and cash flows. These could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies generally which are not specifically mentioned below.. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the oil and gas industry.. Historically, our business has depended significantly on the level of capital expenditures by offshore oil and gas and marine companies in the GOM and along the Gulf Coast. This level of activity has traditionally been volatile, primarily as a result of fluctuations in oil and gas prices. Oil and gas prices declined significantly beginning in the latter half of 2014 and since then, have not increased to a level that supports a recovery in offshore exploration and production spending. In addition to the price of oil and gas, the levels of our customers' capital expenditures are influenced by, among other things:. • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas;. • the ability of oil and gas companies to generate capital;. • the sale and expiration dates of offshore leases in the United States and overseas;. • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves in offshore areas;. • local, federal and international political and economic conditions;. • technological advances; and. • uncertainty regarding the United States energy policy, particularly any revision, reinterpretation or creation of environmental and tax laws and regulations that would negatively impact the industry.. The above factors have not favored increased capital spending by offshore oil and gas companies in recent years. This has created challenges with respect to our ability to operate our fabrication facilities at desired utilization levels throughout 2016 and 2017, resulting in decreased revenue and lower margins. As a result, there are fewer project awards to replace completed projects, and pricing of newer contracts remains increasingly competitive. In addition, we believe that the downturn in the oil and gas industry has also adversely impacted many of our customers' businesses. See also \"We depend on significant customers, and we are exposed to the credit risks of our customers, including the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers.\". We are unable to predict future oil and gas prices or the level of oil and gas industry activity in the GOM region. Higher oil and natural gas prices in the future may not necessarily translate into increased activity, and even during periods of relatively high oil prices, our customers may cancel or curtail programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for offshore exploration and production. Advances in onshore exploration and development technologies, particularly with respect to large, onshore shale production areas, could result in our customers allocating a higher percentage of their capital expenditure budgets to onshore exploration and production activities and less to offshore activities. These factors could cause our revenue and margins to remain depressed and limit our future growth prospects and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to sell our South Texas Properties and / or any sales we consummate may not produce the desired results.. On December 20, 2017, we granted an exclusive option to a third party for the purchase of our South Yard for a purchase price of $55 million. This option runs through April 25, 2018, which may be extended through May 25, 2018, if proper written notice and additional earnest monies are provided in accordance with the agreement. The terms of the agreement are subject to normal and customary conditions, including the third party's right to conduct inspections of the property related to confirmation of title, surveys, environmental conditions, easements and access rights. See also Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We can provide no assurance that the sale of the South Yard will close as expected or at all. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will be able to find a buyer for our North Yard and remaining equipment, or that we will realize any anticipated. 10. benefits from such sales. Even if we are able to find purchasers, we may not be able to obtain attractive terms and conditions for such sales, including attractive pricing.. The uncertainty associated with the timing of a sale or sales of these assets could negatively affect our short-term liquidity and operating results for the period in which such sales occur if such sales are at a loss. Additionally, any decisions we may make regarding our deployment or use of any sales proceeds we receive in any sale involves risks and uncertainties. As a result, our decisions with respect to such proceeds may not lead to increased long-term stockholder value.. Additionally, our efforts to sell the South Texas Properties expose us to a number of risks, including the diversion of management and employee attention from operation of the business, significant costs and expenses, the loss of customer relationships, the loss of key employees, a decrease in revenue and earnings associated with holding these assets for sale, effects on our reported results of operations from disposition-related charges, and charges for impairment of long-term assets and the disruption of operations.. We may not be able to amend our credit agreement or obtain new debt financing if and when needed with favorable terms, if at all.. Our immediate liquidity remains dependent on our cash on hand, availability of future drawings from our credit agreement and collections of accounts receivable. In the first quarter of 2018, we drew $10 million under our credit agreement and as of March 9, 2018, we had approximately $10 million in cash with approximately $27.5 million in availability under our credit agreement.. On February 26, 2018, the Company entered into a Second Amendment (the \"Second Amendment\") to our credit agreement with our lending institution, dated June 9, 2017. The Second Amendment lowers the base tangible net worth requirement from $200 million to $185 million in the minimum tangible net worth covenant. In addition, the Second Amendment revises the calculation for the minimum tangible net worth covenant to include 50% of any gain attributable to the sale of our South Texas Properties.. There are a number of potential negative consequences for the energy and energy services sectors that may result if commodity prices remain depressed or decline or if oil and gas companies continue to de-prioritize investments in offshore exploration, development and production, including a general outflow of credit and capital from the energy and energy services sectors and/or offshore focused energy and energy service companies, further efforts by lenders to reduce their loan exposure to the energy sector, the imposition of increased lending standards for the energy and energy services sectors, higher borrowing costs and collateral requirements or a refusal to extend new credit or amend existing credit facilities in the energy and energy services sectors. These potential negative consequences may be exacerbated by the pressure exerted on financial institutions by bank regulatory agencies to respond quickly and decisively to credit risk that develops in distressed industries. All of these factors may complicate our ability to achieve a favorable outcome in negotiating favorable credit solutions.. We may be required to provide collateral, pay higher interest rates and otherwise agree to more restrictive terms in order to secure future amendments to our credit agreement. Future debt financing arrangements, if available at all, may also require collateral, higher interest rates and more restrictive terms. Collateral requirements and higher borrowing costs may limit our long- and short-term financial flexibility, and any failure to obtain amendments to existing debt arrangements or to secure future financing on terms that are acceptable to the Company could jeopardize our ability to (i) fund, among other things, capital expenditures and general working capital needs or (ii) meet our other financial commitments as they come due.. Our credit agreement contains operating and financial restrictions that may restrict our financial and operating flexibility.. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our credit agreement restricts our ability to:. • grant liens;. • make certain loans or investments;. • incur additional indebtedness or guarantee other indebtedness in excess of specified levels;. • make any material change to the nature of our business or undergo a fundamental change;. • make any material dispositions;. • acquire another company or all or substantially all of its assets;. • enter into a merger, consolidation, or sale leaseback transaction; or. • declare and pay dividends if any potential default or event of default occurs.. 11. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we breach any of our covenants under our credit agreement, repayment of any amounts borrowed could be accelerated when we potentially would not have the liquidity to do so. If this were to happen, we would be required to seek additional financing at higher capital costs, significantly curtail our operations, defer execution of our strategy, sell assets at discounted prices, or a combination of the above. In addition, our obligations under our credit agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets (other than real estate), and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit agreement, the lender could seek to foreclose on such assets. See also \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" in Item 7 of this Report on Form 10-K.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and/or acquisitions, and we may not be able to do so on favorable terms or at all, which would impair our ability to operate our business or achieve our strategic plan.. If our cash flows from operating activities are not sufficient to fund capital expenditures, we would be required to further reduce these expenditures or to fund capital expenditures through debt or equity issuances or through alternative financing plans or selling assets.. We incurred significant losses during 2017 and cash on hand, as of March 9, 2018, was approximately $10 million. Additionally, we were recently named by SeaOne, as the prime contractor for the SeaOne Project. We have created our EPC Division to manage this project and any future projects that are similar to it. We are working to strengthen our internal project management capabilities through the hiring of additional personnel to service this potential project. Additionally, we may be required to invest capital expenditures related to facility upgrades where we expect to perform a portion of the fabrication of the modules for the SeaOne Project. The timing of capital outlays required by us to execute the anticipated project with SeaOne could exceed the availability under our credit agreement with our lending institution and cash proceeds we expect to receive from the sale of our South Texas Properties. Additionally, we may be awarded other contracts as business activities improve that may require capital above current capacity levels. See also \"Executive Overview and Summary\" in Item 7 of this Report on Form 10-K.. Accordingly, we may be required to obtain additional financing or conduct equity or debt offerings. Our ability to successfully obtain such additional financing or raise equity or debt capital in the future will depend in part upon prevailing capital market conditions, as well as conditions in our business and our operating results, and those factors may affect our efforts to successfully obtain additional capital on terms that are satisfactory to us. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on beneficial terms, we may not be able to make future investments, take advantage of acquisitions or other investment opportunities, or respond to competitive challenges. This could limit our ability to bid on new project opportunities, thereby limiting potential growth and profitability within our operating divisions.. We depend on significant customers and we are exposed to the credit risks of our customers, including the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers.. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a small number of major and independent oil and gas and marine companies. Because the level of fabrication that we may provide to any particular customer depends, among other things, on the size of that customer's capital expenditure budget and our ability to meet the customer's delivery schedule, customers that account for a significant portion of our revenue in one fiscal year may represent an immaterial portion of revenue in subsequent years. We define significant customers as those that individually comprise 10% or more of our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we had two customers which accounted for 39.6% of our revenue and related to the fabrication of four modules for one customer associated with an ethane cracker project within our Fabrication Division, and offshore hook-up and installation work for an offshore oil and gas company within our Services Division. For the year ended December 31, 2016, we had one significant customer which accounted for 23.0% and for 2015, we had two significant customers which accounted for 18% and 12% of revenue. The loss of a significant customer in any given year for any reason, including a sustained decline in that customer's capital expenditure budget or competitive factors, can result in a substantial loss of revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance.. Additionally, our business is subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. We believe certain of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Many of our customers are facing significant challenges within the current oil and gas market. As a result, many of our customers are facing decreased cash flow, a reduction in borrowing bases and a reduction in their liquidity and ability to pay or otherwise perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their. 12. own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. Any increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could adversely affect our liquidity.. Our customers are facing significant challenges and a period of consolidation within their industry.. The oil and gas industry is facing significant challenges due to the prolonged period of depressed oil and gas prices resulting in significantly decreased revenue, lower margins and decreased cash flows. This has also negatively impacted the marine industry that supports offshore exploration and production. The result is that many companies are unable to compete and, in some cases, unable to pay their liabilities as they become due. This has resulted in many companies within both industries seeking bankruptcy protection and / or seeking consolidation via acquisition by other companies. We expect this trend to continue.. Customers that acquire other companies may reduce capital spending and decrease demand for our products and services, especially if they acquire a company that provides similar services as us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our level of sales to a customer that has consolidated or replace that revenue with increased business activity with other customers. Acquisition of one or more of our primary customers by a company that is not a customer may also have a significant negative impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We are unable to predict what effect consolidations in the industry may have on price, capital spending by our customers, our selling strategies, our competitive position, our ability to retain customers or our ability to negotiate favorable agreements with our customers.. Our future results of operations depends upon the award of new contracts and the timing of those awards.. Our revenue is derived primarily from contracts awarded on a project-by-project basis. It is difficult to predict whether or when we will be awarded a new contract due to the complex bidding and selection processes, changes in existing or forecast market conditions, governmental regulations, permitting and environmental matters. Because our revenue is derived from contract awards, our results of operations and cash flows can fluctuate materially from period to period.. The uncertainty associated with the timing of contract awards may reduce our short-term profitability as we balance our current capacity with expectations of future contract awards. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur costs to maintain an idle workforce that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Alternatively, we may decide that our long-term interests are best served by reducing our workforce and incurring increased costs associated with termination benefits, which also could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred. Reducing our workforce could also impact our results of operations if customers are hesitant to award new contracts to us based upon our staffing levels or if we are unable to adequately increase our labor force and staff projects that are awarded subsequent to a workforce reduction.. Our backlog is subject to change as a result of changes in management's estimates, suspension or termination of projects currently in our backlog or our failure to secure additional projects.. Our backlog is based on management's estimate of the direct labor hours required to complete, and the remaining revenue to be recognized with respect to, customer projects either already in progress or for projects where the customer has authorized us to begin work or purchase materials or services pursuant to written contracts, letters of intent or other forms of authorization. However, as engineering and design plans are finalized or changes to existing plans are made, management's estimate of the direct labor hours required to complete and the price at completion is likely to change.. All projects currently included in our backlog generally are subject to suspension, termination, or a reduction in scope at the option of the customer, although the customer is typically required to pay us for work performed and materials purchased through the date of termination. In addition, customers have the ability to delay the execution of projects. Depending on the size of the project, the termination, postponement, or change in scope of any project could significantly change the expected timing of revenue to be recognized, reduce backlog, and could have a material adverse effect on revenue, results of operations and cash flow. Accordingly, our backlog as of any particular date is an uncertain indicator of future results of operations.. Our entry into a new line of business may not result in increased shareholder value.. Our operations historically focused primarily on offshore fabrication services for the oil and gas industry. We have recently diversified our shipyard capability through the acquisition of assets from LEEVAC and expanded our EPC capability through the creation of our EPC Division to manage the SeaOne Project and future projects that are similar to it. The Company may expand its capabilities further and enter into additional lines of business. Entry into, or further development of, lines of business in which the Company has not historically operated may expose us to business and operational risks that are different from those. 13. we have experienced historically. Our management may not be able to effectively manage these additional risks or implement successful business strategies in new lines of business. Additionally, our competitors in these lines of business may possess substantially greater operational knowledge, resources and experience than the Company. These diversification initiatives may not result in an increase in shareholder value.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations.. Lower levels of offshore exploration and development activity and spending by our customers globally has had a direct and significant impact on our financial performance, financial condition and financial outlook. Our ability to fund our operations depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. For more information on our business outlook and \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See also Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This, to a large extent, is subject to conditions in the oil and gas industry, including commodity prices, demand for our services and the prices we are able to charge for our services, general economic and financial conditions, competition in the markets in which we operate, the impact of legislative and regulatory actions on how we conduct our business and other factors, all of which are beyond our control.. Competitive pricing common in the fabrication industry may not provide sufficient protection from cost overruns.. As is common in the fabrication industry, a substantial number of our projects are performed on a fixed-price or unit-rate basis. Under fixed-price or unit-rate contracts, we receive the price fixed in the contract, subject to adjustment only for change-orders placed by the customer. Under a unit rate contract, material items or labor tasks are assigned unit rates of measure. The unit rates of measure will generally be an amount of dollars per ton, per foot, per square foot or per item installed. A typical unit rate contract can contain hundreds to thousands of unit rates of measure. Profit margins are built into the unit rates and, similar to a fixed price contract, we retain all cost savings but are also responsible for all cost overruns. In many cases, these project awards involve complex design and engineering, significant procurement of equipment and supplies and extensive construction management. Management uses its best efforts to properly estimate the costs to complete our project awards; however, our actual costs incurred to complete these projects could exceed our estimates.. The revenue, costs and gross profit realized on a contract will often vary from the estimated amounts on which such contracts were originally estimated due to the following:. • Failure to properly estimate costs of engineering, materials, components, equipment, labor or subcontractors.. • Changes in the costs of engineering, materials, components, equipment, labor or subcontractors.. • Difficulties in engaging third-party subcontractors, equipment manufacturers or materials suppliers or failures by third-party subcontractors, equipment manufacturers or materials suppliers to perform could result in project delays and cause us to incur additional costs.. • We rely heavily on steel purchased from domestic and foreign steel mills as well as outside services for the installation of electrical and mechanical equipment. We generally mitigate this risk with typical alliance/partnering arrangements to provide some protection against cost overruns. While such mechanisms are in place to reduce this risk, we may not be able to adequately cover increases in costs and our margins could be negatively impacted. Despite these attempts, however, the cost and gross profit we realize on a fixed-price contract could vary materially from the estimated amounts.. • Our vendors may be unable to deliver materials or contracted services on schedule or at the agreed upon price. We generally have mechanisms in place to indemnify us with respect to damages that we may incur; however, we may be unable to enforce such indemnification or obtain the materials / services from an alternate vendor on a timely basis or at a comparable price which could result in delays and/or increased costs.. • Our execution and productivity could deteriorate from the original estimates as a a result of poor execution and / or weather conditions.. • We may be unable to obtain compensation for additional work we perform or expenses we incur from our customers.. • We may incur payment of liquidated damages upon a failure to meet scheduled delivery requirements.. • Our projects may be terminated, temporarily suspended or significantly reduced in scope by our customers. Our contracts generally provide for reimbursement of all costs plus the portion of the contract earned to date; however, they do not replace future overhead or labor costs when such terminations, delays or reductions in scope result in decreased utilization of the yard and an idle labor force.. These variations and risks are inherent within our industry and may result in revenue and gross profits different from those originally estimated and reduce profitability or create losses on projects. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance can have a significant impact on our operating results for any particular fiscal quarter or year. In addition, substantially all of our customer contracts require us to continue work in accordance with the contractually agreed. 14. schedule (and thus, continue to incur expenses for labor and materials) notwithstanding the occurrence of a disagreement with customers over increased pricing and/or unresolved change orders.. For example, during 2017, we recorded contract losses of $34.5 million, including $11.2 million in liquidated damages related to cost overruns and delays that we encountered in the newbuild construction of two multi-purpose offshore vessels that we are building for a customer. The cost overruns relate to engineering and electrical complexities encountered while installing electrical raceways for power and communications systems. These complexities also created delays in completing the vessels on schedule which resulted in liquidated damage penalties further reducing the fixed contract price for this contract. See also further discussion in \"Executive Overview and Summary - Current Year Losses, Industry Trends, Continued Diversification and Creation of Our EPC Division\" in Item 7 of this Report on Form 10-K.. We might be unable to employ a sufficient number of skilled workers.. We have reduced our skilled workforce during 2017 in response of decreases in utilization of our facilities. Our productivity and profitability depends substantially on our ability to attract and retain skilled construction workers, primarily welders, fitters and equipment operators. Reductions made in our labor force may make it more difficult for us to increase our labor force to desirable levels during periods of rapid expanding customer demand. Our ability to expand our operations in tandem with customer demand depends on our ability to increase our labor force when necessary with the appropriate skilled construction workers. Also, when demand for these workers is high, the supply becomes increasingly limited resulting in increased market rates for these workers. During periods of high activity in past years, we have enhanced several incentive programs and expanded our training facility in an effort to maintain our current workforce and attract new employees.. Even if we are able to increase our workforce in times of higher demand, significant increase in the wages paid by a wide range of other employers seeking similar skill sets could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates we pay, increase in our use of contract labor or all of these. While we believe our relationship with our skilled labor force is good, the profits expected from work in progress and future projects could be reduced or eliminated to the extent we are unable to properly increase our workforce or if potential wage increases could not be passed on to our customers, our production capacity could be diminished and our growth potential could be limited if we were to experience a rapid expansion of demand.. The dangers inherent in our operations and the limits on our insurance coverage could expose us to potentially significant liability costs and materially interfere with the performance of our operations.. The fabrication of our structures involves operating hazards that can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and suspension of operations. The failure of such structures during and after installation can result in similar injuries and damages. In addition, our employees may engage in certain activities, including interconnect piping and other service activities conducted on offshore platforms, activities performed on the spud barges owned or chartered by us, marine vessel fabrication and repair activities performed at our facilities and operating vessels owned by us, that are covered in either the provisions of the Jones Act or USL&H. These laws operate to make the liability limits established under state workers' compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and, instead, permit them or their representatives to pursue actions against us for damages or job related injuries, with generally no limitations on our potential liability.. Our ownership and operation of vessels can give rise to large and varied liability risks, which can result in significant claims for damages against both us and third parties. Litigation arising from any such occurrences may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. In addition, due to the proximity to the GOM, our facilities are subject to the possibility of physical damage caused by hurricanes or flooding.. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is adequate, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. Claims for which we are not fully insured may adversely affect our working capital and results of operations. In addition, changes in the insurance industry have generally led to higher insurance costs and decreased availability of coverage. The availability of insurance that covers risks we typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that we are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms.. Our industry is highly competitive.. The offshore and marine fabrication industries are highly competitive and influenced by events largely outside of our control. Contracts for our services are generally awarded on a competitive bid basis, and our customers consider many factors when awarding a job. These factors include price, the contractor's ability to meet the customer's delivery schedule, the availability and capability of equipment, and the reputation, experience, and safety record of the contractor. Although we believe that our reputation. 15. for safety and quality service is good, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain our competitive position. We compete with both large and small companies for available jobs, and certain of our competitors, particularly our domestic competitor for major deepwater projects, have greater financial and other resources than we do.. Foreign governments often use subsidies and incentives to create local jobs where oil and gas production is being developed. In addition, decreased transportation costs incurred by our customers when exporting structures from foreign locations to the GOM may hinder our ability to successfully bid for projects in the GOM against foreign competitors. Because of subsidies, import duties and fees, taxes on foreign operators, lower wage rates in foreign countries, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar, the possible imposition of tariffs on raw materials imported into the United States, and other factors, we may not be able to remain competitive with respect to pricing compared to foreign contractors. For additional information also see, \"Business and Properties - Competition\" in Item 1 of this Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding the competitive nature of our industry.. We may not be able to successfully defend against claims made against us by customers or subcontractors, or recover on claims made by us against customers or subcontractors.. Our projects are generally highly complex and we may encounter difficulties in design or engineering, schedule changes and other factors, some of which may be beyond our control, that affect our ability to complete projects in accordance with original delivery schedules or to otherwise meet contractual performance obligations. We may bring claims against customers for additional costs exceeding contract prices or for amounts not included in original contract prices as a result of customer-caused delays or changes from initial project scope. In addition, claims may be brought against us by customers relating to, among other things, alleged defective or incomplete work, breaches of warranty and/or late completion of work. Claims among us and our subcontractors may include claims similar to those described above. These claims may be subject to lengthy and/or expensive litigation or arbitration proceedings, and we may invest significant working capital in projects to cover cost overruns pending resolution of these claims. These claims could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our method of accounting for revenue using the percentage-of-completion method could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. Most of our revenue is recognized on a percentage-of-completion basis based on the ratio of direct labor hours worked to the total estimated direct labor hours required for completion. Accordingly, contract price and cost estimates are reviewed monthly as the work progresses, and adjustments proportionate to the percentage-of-completion are reflected in revenue for the period when such estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits, we are required to recognize a charge against current earnings, which may be significant depending on the size of the project or the adjustment. For example, during 2017, we recorded contract losses of $34.5 million, including $11.2 million in liquidated damages related to cost overruns and delays that we encountered in the newbuild construction of two multi-purpose offshore vessels that we are building for a customer. The cost overruns relate to engineering and electrical complexities encountered while installing electrical raceways for power and communications systems. These complexities also created delays in completing the vessels on schedule which resulted in liquidated damage penalties further reducing the fixed contract price for this contract. See also further discussion in \"Executive Overview and Summary - Current Year Losses, Industry Trends, Continued Diversification and Creation of Our EPC Division\" in Item 7 of this Report on Form 10-K. We depend on key personnel.. Our success depends to a great degree on the abilities of our key management personnel, particularly our executives and other key employees who have significant experience within our industry. The loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could adversely affect us.. The nature of our industry subjects us to compliance with regulatory and environmental laws.. Our operations and properties are materially affected by state and federal laws and other regulations relating to the oil and gas industry in general, as well as a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, the remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous substances and the health and safety of employees. Compliance with many of these laws is becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive. Many of these laws impose \"strict liability\" for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety, rendering a party liable for the environmental damage without regard to its negligence or fault. Certain environmental laws provide for strict, joint and several liability for remediation of spills and other releases of hazardous substances, as well as damage to natural resources. In addition, we could be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances. Such laws and regulations may also. 16. expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such acts were performed. We believe that our present operations substantially comply with applicable federal and state pollution control and environmental protection laws and regulations. We also believe that compliance with such laws has not resulted in a material adverse effect on our operations. However, such environmental laws are changed frequently. Sanctions for noncompliance may include revocation of permits, corrective action orders, administrative or civil penalties and criminal prosecution. We are unable to predict whether environmental laws will have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. See \"Business and Properties - Government and Environmental Regulation\" in Item 1 of this Report on Form 10-K. The demand for our services is also affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas and marine industries. The current environment has federal, state and local governments faced with spending deficits. We may not be able to pass any potential increases in taxes on to our customers.. Offshore construction and drilling in certain areas is opposed by many environmental groups and, in certain areas, has been restricted. To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental actions are taken that prohibit or restrict offshore construction and drilling or impose environmental protection requirements that result in increased costs to the oil and gas industry in general and the offshore construction industry in particular, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. We cannot determine to what extent future operations and results of operations may be affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing regulations.. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to utilize the navigation canals adjacent to our facilities.. The Houma Navigation Canal provides the shortest means of access from our facilities in Houma, Louisiana, to open waters. With respect to our South Texas Properties, the U.S. Intracoastal Waterway provides access between our North and South yards. From our South Yard, the Corpus Christi Ship Channel provides access to the GOM. Our Jennings Shipyard in Jennings, Louisiana, is located on the west bank of the Mermentau River approximately 25 miles north of the U.S. Intracoastal Waterway and our Lake Charles Shipyard is 17 miles from the GOM on the Calcasieu River near Lake Charles, Louisiana. These waterways are considered to be navigable waterways of the United States and, as such, are protected by federal law from unauthorized obstructions that would hinder water-borne traffic. Federal law also authorizes maintenance of these waterways by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. These waterways are dredged from time to time to maintain water depth and, while federal funding for dredging has historically been provided, there is no assurance that Congressional appropriations sufficient for adequate dredging and other maintenance of these waterways will be continued indefinitely. If sufficient funding were not appropriated for that purpose, some or all of these waterways could become impassable by barges or other vessels required to transport many of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position.. We depend on subcontractor services to perform our contractual obligations.. Our ability to perform under our contracts depends to some degree on the performance of third parties we subcontract. We depend upon subcontractors for a variety of reasons, including:. • to perform work as a result of scheduling demands we would otherwise perform with our employees;. • to supervise and/or perform certain aspects of the contract more efficiently considering the conditions of the contract; and. • to perform certain types of skilled work.. We work closely with these subcontractors to monitor progress and address our customer requirements. We generally have the ability to pursue back charges for costs we incur or liabilities we assume as a result of a subcontractor's lack of performance. However, the inability of our subcontractors to perform under the terms of their contracts could cause us to incur additional costs that reduce profitability or create losses on projects.. We are susceptible to adverse weather conditions in our market areas.. Our operations are directly affected by the seasonal differences in weather patterns in the GOM, as well as daylight hours. Since most of our construction activities take place outdoors, the number of direct labor hours worked generally declines in the winter months due to an increase in rain, colder temperatures and a decrease in daylight hours. The seasonality of oil and gas industry activity as a whole in the Gulf Coast region also affects our operations. Our oil and gas customers often schedule the completion of their projects during the summer months in order to take advantage of milder weather for the installation of their platforms. The rainy weather, tropical storms, hurricanes and other storms prevalent in the GOM and along the Gulf Coast throughout the year may also affect our operations. Accordingly, our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter, depending. 17. on factors outside of our control. As a result, full year results are not likely to be a direct multiple of any particular quarter or combination of quarters. We believe that we maintain adequate insurance coverage related to potential damage from weather. For example, we incurred hurricane damage at our South Texas Properties during 2017. See also \"Executive Overview and Summary\" in Item 7 of this Report on Form 10-K. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. In addition, changes in the insurance industry have generally led to higher insurance costs and decreased availability of coverage. The availability of insurance for our facilities may decrease, and the insurance that we are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms.. Systems and information technology interruption or failure and data security breaches could adversely impact our ability to operate or expose us to significant financial losses and reputational harm.. We rely heavily on computer information and communications technology and related systems in order to properly operate our business. From time to time, we experience occasional system interruptions and delays. In the event we are unable to regularly deploy software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure, and take other steps to maintain or improve the efficiency and efficacy of our systems, the operation of such systems could be interrupted or result in the loss, corruption or release of data. In addition, our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, force majeure events, telecommunications failures, power loss, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, malicious code, physical or electronic security breaches, intentional or inadvertent user misuse or error, or similar events or disruptions. Any of these or other events could cause interruptions, delays, loss of critical and/or sensitive data or similar effects, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, protection of intellectual property, and results of operations, as well as those of our clients.. In addition, we face the threat to our computer systems of unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, malicious code, organized cyber-attacks and other security problems and system disruptions, including possible unauthorized access to and disclosure of our and our clients' proprietary or classified information. We rely on industry accepted security measures and technology to securely maintain all confidential and proprietary information on our computer systems, but they may still be vulnerable to these threats. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these system disruptions and security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these disruptions and breaches. Any of these events could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows."
