[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Gyrodyne’s business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidating distribution potential are subject to risks customary for real property owners, as well as additional risks associated with Gyrodyne’s strategic plan of positioning our remaining properties for sale at enhanced values and making liquidating distributions to our shareholders. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially harm the value of our properties and the magnitude of distributions to our shareholders, including causing Gyrodyne’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. The following summary of significant risk factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Gyrodyne or that Gyrodyne currently deems immaterial also may materially adversely affect us in future periods. For more information about forward-looking statements, see the section of this report entitled “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Information” below.. Illiquidity of real estate and lack of diversification may make it difficult for us to sell properties or achieve satisfactory returns in one or more properties within projected timelines.. Our assets consist substantially of real properties which are relatively illiquid assets. Therefore, we will be limited in our ability to reconfigure our real estate portfolio in response to economic changes. We may encounter difficulty in disposing of properties when tenants vacate either at the expiration of the applicable lease or otherwise. When we decide to sell a particular property, our ability to do so and the prices we receive on their sale may be affected by many factors, including the number of potential buyers, the number of competing properties on the market and other market conditions, as well as whether the property is leased and if it is leased, the terms of the lease. As a result, we may be unable to sell our properties for an extended period of time at the values disclosed in our Consolidated Statement of Net Assets, which would adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We expect to complete our process of pre-development enhancement and liquidation of all our properties by the end of 2019.  However, the illiquid nature of real estate and the short timeframe that we have chosen to complete the pre-development value enhancement and liquidation process could adversely impact the prospects for achieving our value enhancement and sale objectives and may ultimately result in an extension of the timeline and or additional costs for achieving our pre-development property value enhancement and liquidation objectives.. If our land entitlement and liquidation costs or unpaid liabilities are greater than we expect, our liquidating distributions to our shareholders may be delayed or reduced.. The Company estimates that it may incur approximately $2.5 million in additional land entitlement costs through 2019 to continue pre-development property value enhancement efforts, including the pursuit of entitlements, zoning changes and special permits. Land entitlement costs, claims, liabilities and expenses from operations, including operating costs, salaries, income taxes, payroll and local taxes, legal, accounting and consulting fees and miscellaneous office expenses, will continue to be incurred during the process of value enhancement and liquidation. After we complete the sale of all our real properties, we will apply the proceeds of such dispositions first to settle any claims against Gyrodyne and then to make liquidating distributions to holders of Gyrodyne common shares. Before making liquidating distributions on our common shares, we will need to pay or arrange for the payment of all our transaction costs incurred on the sales of our properties, including enhancements of certain properties, and all valid claims of our creditors, including obligations under our Retention Bonus Plan. The total amount of land entitlement costs, transaction fees and all operating and administrative costs in the liquidation is not yet known and, therefore, we have used estimates of these costs in calculating the amounts of our projected liquidating distributions to our shareholders. To the extent that we have underestimated these costs in calculating our projections or we incur unforeseen additional costs, our actual liquidating distributions may be lower than our estimated net assets in liquidation. In addition, if the claims of our creditors are greater than we have anticipated, or we decide to acquire one or more insurance policies covering unknown or contingent claims against us, our liquidating distributions may be delayed or reduced. Further, if a reserve fund is established, payment of liquidating distributions to our holders of common shares may be delayed or reduced.. Stipulation of Settlement prohibits us from selling our remaining properties at prices below December 2014 appraised values.. On July 3, 2014, a purported shareholder of the Corporation filed a putative class action lawsuit against the Company, the Corporation, GSD and members of our Board of Directors (the \"Action\"). The complaint alleged, among other things, that (i) our directors breached their fiduciary duties or aided and abetted the breach of those duties in connection with the Merger and (ii) the Corporation and the directors breached their fiduciary duties by failing to disclose material information in the proxy statement/prospectus relating to the Merger. On August 14, 2015, the parties to the Action entered a Stipulation of Settlement (the \"Settlement\") providing for the settlement of the Action, subject to the court's approval.  Under the Settlement, Gyrodyne amended its proxy statement relating to the Merger with certain supplemental disclosures and agreed that any sales of its properties would be effected only in arm's-length transactions at prices at or above their appraised values as of 2014.. The 2014 aggregate appraised value for our properties was approximately $100,000 higher than the 2013 aggregate appraised value for such properties. As of December 31, 2017, the aggregate appraised value of our remaining unsold properties was $4,416,665 higher than the 2014 aggregate appraised value for such properties.. 18. The requirement in the Settlement that the Company sell its remaining properties at prices above the December 2014 appraised values could limit the options available to the Company. The Company believes that it is in the best interests of the shareholders to pursue certain pre-development enhancements to its remaining properties prior to seeking their ultimate disposition to a developer or other purchaser because doing so will result in higher estimated distributions as compared with selling the properties with their current zoning and entitlements. The Company may also entertain offers from potential buyers who may be willing to pay prices for the properties in their current entitlement and zoning status that the Company finds more attractive from a timing or value perspective than might be achievable through completing an entitlement process. If the Company receives an offer prior to the completion of the entitlement process that it believes is in the best interests of the shareholders, it may nevertheless be prevented from consummating such transaction because of the price floor set in the Settlement. In addition, a severe downturn in the general economy or in the real estate market, or other negative factors beyond our control, may drive down the values of commercial real estate properties, or otherwise result in the values of our remaining properties being reduced to levels below the 2014 appraised values, in which case we may be prohibited under the Settlement from selling such properties. Such limitation on the options available to the Company may make it more difficult to accomplish our stated objective of completing the liquidation process prior to the end of 2019.. Furthermore, the Stipulation’s price floor provision does not factor in land entitlement costs that may be incurred in enhancing the value of any particular property. Although the Company intends only to engage in value enhancement efforts and incur land entitlement costs if it reasonably believes that property values will increase more than the amount of such costs, and the Retention Bonus Plan as amended properly incentivizes the Company to do so by calculating the bonus pool as a percentage of the excess of gross sales proceeds from the sale of each property over the designated appraised value as adjusted by land entitlement costs, the price floor provision may nevertheless create a perverse incentive for the Company to incur certain land entitlement costs to increase the value of a property beyond its stipulated price floor even if the land entitlement costs incurred exceed the amount of the increase.. Risks incidental to real estate ownership and management.. Because our business plan is to pursue the opportunistic disposition of our properties, we do not expect to make any further investments other than to enhance the values of the Flowerfield and Cortlandt Manor properties which may include acquisitions of land and/or executing land swaps. Accordingly, an investment in Gyrodyne depends upon the financial performance and the value of our current portfolio of properties, which properties are subject to the risks normally associated with the ownership and management of rental properties and real estate in general. The risks associated with ownership and management of rental properties include the non-performance of lease obligations by tenants, leasehold improvements that will be costly or difficult to remove should it become necessary to re-rent the leased space for other uses, covenants in certain retail leases that limit the types of tenants to which available space can be rented (which may limit demand or reduce the rents realized on re-renting), rights of termination of leases due to events of casualty or condemnation affecting the leased space or the property or due to interruption of the tenant's quiet enjoyment of the leased premises, and obligations of a landlord to restore the leased premises or the property following events of casualty or condemnation. The risks associated with ownership and management of real estate in general include:. •  \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse changes in general and local economic conditions which affect the demand for real estate assets;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompetition from other properties;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in interest rates;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treduced availability of financing;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe cyclical nature of the real estate industry and possible oversupply of, or reduced demand for, properties in the markets in which our investments are located;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe attractiveness of our properties to tenants and purchasers;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thow well we manage our properties;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in market rental rates and our ability to rent space on favorable terms;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe financial condition of our tenants including their becoming insolvent and bankrupt;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe need to periodically renovate, repair and re-lease space and the costs thereof; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreases in maintenance, insurance and operating costs.. 19. There are risks associated with seeking to enhance the value of certain properties.. Gyrodyne is currently exploring enhancements of the value of our Flowerfield and Cortlandt Manor properties by pursuing various entitlement and/or zoning opportunities. The Board believes that the cost of doing so will be exceeded by the resulting increase in value in such properties. Our efforts to seek enhancements of such properties are subject to various risks, including the following:. • \t\t\t \t\t\tany delay or denial of a required entitlement or permit, including zoning, land use, environmental, emissions or other related permits, would adversely impact our property enhancement plans;. • \t\t\t \t\t\tour analysis of site context, of demographic trends, of decisions of anchor institutions and of growth opportunities generally may not result in identifying the correct high value land uses and programmatic synergies;. • \t\t\t \t\t\tcapital improvement costs and other expenses of such enhancements may be higher than projected, potentially making the project unfeasible or unprofitable;. • \t\t\t \t\t\twe may not have funds available or be able to obtain financing for these value-enhancement projects on favorable terms, if at all;. • \t\t\t \t\t\twe may experience delays in the repositioning or improvement process.. For these and other reasons, we cannot assure you that we will realize growth in the value of our Flowerfield and Cortlandt Manor properties that exceeds our land entitlement costs or any at all, and as a result our ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected.. We cannot assure you of the exact timing and amount of any further distributions to our shareholders.. Our estimate of net assets in liquidation at December 31, 2017 is $26.6 million or $17.97 per common share. These estimated amounts are based on a number of assumptions and factors outside of our control. The process of disposing of our real property assets in an orderly manner designed to obtain the best value reasonably available for such assets may fail to create value or may result in lower than expected value and may result in lower than expected proceeds, or in no proceeds, for distribution to our shareholders. The actual nature, amount and timing of all distributions will be determined by Gyrodyne in our sole discretion, and will depend on, and could be delayed by, among other things, sales of our real estate assets, claim settlements with creditors, resolution of outstanding litigation matters, payment of incentive bonuses to those employees and directors who are vested under the Retention Bonus Plan and unanticipated or greater-than-expected expenses. Examples of uncertainties that could reduce the value of or eliminate distributions to our shareholders include unanticipated costs relating to:. • \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to achieve favorable values for our properties in their disposition; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t  \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\tthe defense, satisfaction or settlement of lawsuits or other claims that may be made or threatened against us in the future; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t  \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\tdelay or failure to settle claims; and \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t  \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\tadministration and settlement of federal and state tax audits, if any.. As a result, we cannot determine with certainty the amount or timing of distributions to our shareholders.. If we are unable to find buyers for our properties at our expected sales prices, distributions may be delayed or reduced.. In calculating our estimated net assets in liquidation, we assume that we will be able to find buyers for all our properties at our estimated amounts. However, we may have overestimated the sales prices that we will be able to obtain for these properties or underestimated the costs associated with such sales. If we are not able to find buyers for these properties in a reasonably timely manner or if we have overestimated the sales prices we will receive, distributions payable to holders of our common shares would be delayed or reduced. Furthermore, our estimated net assets in liquidation are based on current market conditions, but real estate market values are constantly changing and tend to fluctuate with changes in interest rates, supply and demand dynamics, occupancy percentages, lease rates, the availability of suitable buyers, the perceived quality and dependability of income flows from tenancies and a number of other factors, both local and national. In addition, transactional fees and expenses, environmental contamination at our properties or unknown liabilities, if any, may adversely impact the net liquidation proceeds from those properties.. 20. Distributions to shareholders may be delayed or reduced as a result of sale agreement provisions that allow purchasers to terminate agreements and/or result in purchaser defaults.. Purchase and sale agreements that we have entered into with respect to properties we previously sold contained provisions that gave the purchaser the right to terminate the agreement, for any reason or no reason, prior to the expiration of an evaluation period, and receive a refund of earnest money deposits, and it can be anticipated that agreements for future property sales will have similar provisions. The consummation of property sales for which we will enter into sale agreements in the future will also be subject to satisfaction of standard closing conditions. If any property sale contemplated by future sale agreements does not close because a purchaser exercises its termination right or defaults, or because of a failure of a closing condition or for any other reason, we will need to locate a new buyer for the property, which we may be unable to do promptly or at a price or on terms that are as favorable as contained in the original sale agreement. Many of the costs incurred due to a sale that fails to close are sunk costs with no future value and we will also incur additional costs involved in negotiating a new sale agreement for such property. These additional costs are not included in our projections. In the event that we incur these additional costs, distributions to our shareholders would be delayed or reduced.. Our shareholders may be liable to our creditors for an amount up to the amount distributed by us if our reserves for payments to creditors are inadequate.. In the event our shareholders receive distributions from Gyrodyne and there are insufficient funds to pay any creditors who seek payment of claims against Gyrodyne, shareholders could be held liable under New York State’s fraudulent conveyance laws for payments made to them and could be required to return all or a part of distributions made to them.. Our properties may subject us to known and unknown liabilities.. Our existing properties may have known and unknown liabilities for which we would have no recourse, or only limited recourse, to the former owners of such properties. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of an acquired property, we might be required to pay significant sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our financial results, cash flow and proceeds available for distribution. Unknown liabilities relating to acquired properties could include:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tliabilities for clean-up of pre-existing disclosed or undisclosed environmental contamination;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tclaims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising on account of actions or omissions of the former owners of the properties; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tliabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business.. If we are unable to maintain the occupancy rates of currently leased space and/or to lease currently available space, if tenants default under their leases or other obligations to us or if our cash flow is otherwise less than we expect, distributions to our shareholders may be delayed or reduced.. The sales proceeds that could be generated from opportunistic dispositions of our real properties depend in large part on occupancy and rental rates, our success in renting currently available space and the existence of any significant tenant defaults that were not subsequently cured. In calculating the estimated range of liquidating distributions, it was assumed that we would maintain the occupancy rates of currently leased space, that we would be able to rent currently available space in the ordinary course and that we would not experience any significant tenant defaults during the liquidation process that were not subsequently cured. Negative trends in one or more of these factors may adversely affect the resale value of the properties, which would reduce our distributions. Disposition proceeds and related distributions will be reduced to the extent that we receive less rental income than we expect. We may also decide in the event of a tenant default to restructure the lease, which could require us to substantially reduce the rent payable to us under the lease or make other modifications that are unfavorable to us.. We are subject to risks associated with the financial condition of our tenants.. Our tenants may experience a downturn in their business resulting in their inability to make rental payments when due. In addition, a tenant may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such tenant’s lease and cause a reduction in our cash flow.  We cannot evict a tenant solely because of its filing for bankruptcy. A bankruptcy court, however, may authorize a tenant to reject and terminate its lease. In such a case, our claim against the tenant for past due rent and unpaid future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the lease. In any event, it is unlikely that a bankrupt tenant will pay the entire amount it owes us under a lease. The loss of rental payments from tenants would likely reduce proceeds from real property dispositions and distributions from such proceeds.. 21. The loss of a major tenant could adversely affect our financial condition.. We are and expect that we will continue to be subject to a degree of tenant concentration at certain of our operating properties. As indicated above, we are subject to risks associated with the financial condition of our tenants. In the event that a tenant occupying a significant portion of one or more of our properties or whose rental income represents a significant portion of the rental revenue at such property or properties were to experience financial weakness, default on its lease, elect not to renew its lease or file bankruptcy it would negatively impact our financial condition and, as a result, our distributions. We recently entered into an amendment to the existing lease with Stony Brook University Hospital for a 93% expansion of its currently leased space. The space covered by the amended lease would constitute approximately 15.9% of our total rentable square feet and the annual rent is expected to represent approximately 19.3% of our annual rental revenue for 2018.. We may experience increased operating costs, which might reduce our estimated net assets in liquidation and the sales prices received for our properties.. Our properties are subject to increases in operating expenses such as for cleaning, electricity, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, administrative costs and other costs associated with security, landscaping and repairs and maintenance of our properties. In general, under our leases with tenants, we pass through all or a portion of these costs to them. There can be no assurance that tenants will actually bear the full burden of these higher costs, or that such increased costs will not lead them, or other prospective tenants, to seek space elsewhere. If operating expenses increase, the availability of other comparable space in the geographic markets of our properties might limit our ability to increase rents; if operating expenses increase without a corresponding increase in revenues, our profitability could diminish thereby reducing our estimated proceeds on disposition of real properties and limit the amount and likely delay the timing of our distributions.. Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.. We use our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance coverage on our properties at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. This may result in insurance coverage that, in the event of a substantial loss, would not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of the property and also may result in certain losses being totally uninsured. Inflation, changes in building codes, zoning or other land use ordinances, environmental considerations or other factors might not make it feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a building after such building has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds, if any, received by us might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to such property.. We may incur costs to comply with environmental laws.. The obligation to pay for the cost of complying with existing environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as the cost of complying with future legislation, may increase our operating costs. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on or under the property. Environmental laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances and whether or not such substances originated from the property.  Insurance that we maintain related to potential environmental issues on our properties may not be adequate to cover all possible contingencies.. Our common shares are thinly traded and there may not be an active, liquid trading market for our common shares.. Our common shares are thinly traded and have substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for many other publicly traded companies.  Thinly traded stocks can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market.  Our stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include but are not limited to our announcement of developments related to our plan to sell our properties opportunistically (some of which are or may be the subject of enhancement efforts), stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, news reports of issues related to REITs or other real property owners and the real estate market and market forces generally.  Over the past several years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies, including those in the real estate sector, have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to operating performance.  Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance.  General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the real estate sector of the economy, could adversely affect the price of our common shares, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices.  There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common shares will be maintained on Nasdaq, or that the volume of trading will be sufficient to allow for timely trades.  Investors may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our stock is not active or if trading volume is limited.  In addition, if trading volume in our common shares is limited, trades of relatively small numbers of shares may have a disproportionate effect on the market price of our common shares.  Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volume, prices or times that they desire.. 22. If our common shares are delisted from Nasdaq, shareholders may find it difficult to dispose of their shares.. We believe we are currently in compliance with all of our Nasdaq listing requirements. Nevertheless, there are no assurances that we will be able to sustain long-term compliance with Nasdaq’s stockholders’ equity requirement or minimum bid price requirement for continued listing, particularly as we reduce our overall assets through the distribution of sales proceeds to our shareholders. If we fail to maintain compliance with applicable Nasdaq listing requirements, our common shares may be delisted by Nasdaq involuntarily. In addition, even if we are successful in maintaining compliance with applicable Nasdaq listing requirements, our board of directors may decide that the costs of compliance and the demands of management time and Company resources required to maintain our Nasdaq listing are greater than the benefits received by the Company and its shareholders from being a listed company and that, accordingly, consistent with other cash management and cost reduction measures that we have implemented, we should voluntarily delist from the Nasdaq Capital Market. If our common shares were delisted from Nasdaq voluntarily or involuntarily, trading of our common shares most likely will be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin Board established for unlisted securities such as OTCQX, OTCBX or OTC Pink which will reduce the market liquidity of our common shares. Delisting may result in lower levels of ownership and trading by institutional shareholders, who are generally guided by quantitative and qualitative investment standards such as market capitalization, minimum share price and liquidity, which in turn often produces lower trading volumes and reduced liquidity. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common shares. Also, many brokers will not allow customers to hold non-listed securities in managed accounts or place restrictions which inhibit holding or trading, and it is generally understood that brokers will not recommend non-listed securities to retail clients, perhaps not as official policy but rather as a practical reality. We cannot assure you that our common shares, if delisted from Nasdaq voluntarily, or if they would be delisted involuntarily by Nasdaq, will be listed on another national securities exchange or quoted on an over-the counter quotation system.. We do not anticipate making distributions other than distributions from property dispositions or of liquidation proceeds.. We have not paid any dividends other than the following special dividends/distributions:. • \t\t\t \t\t\tJune 15, 2016- A special distribution of $9.25 per share.. • \t\t\t \t\t\tSeptember 15, 2016- A special distribution of $1.50 per share.. • \t\t\t \t\t\tJuly 7, 2017 – A special distribution of $1.00 per share.. We have a history of losses and we anticipate losses in the future, excluding proceeds from the sale of assets. There can be no guarantee that we will have income to distribute other than proceeds from the sale of properties or of the Company, and we may not make any dividends or distributions in the future other than distributions of proceeds on the sale of the Company or any of our assets.. The value of our medical office parks may be affected by factors in the healthcare industry.. On a pro forma basis to exclude assets sold, approximately 37,000 square feet of our rentable space and approximately 39% of our gross revenues for 2017 was attributable to our medical office properties. The medical office properties are subject to various operating risks common to the healthcare industry, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompetition from other medical properties in our markets;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tover-building of medical parks in our markets, which adversely affects occupancy and revenues at our properties;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thospitals servicing the local markets increasing their interest in employing private practitioners or increasing their real estate portfolio of medical office space for rent or real estate/medical practice related joint ventures;. 23. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treductions in medical reimbursements from Medicaid and Medicare which directly impact private practitioners;. • \t\t\t \t\t\tunknown or unidentified adverse consequences from the recent federal healthcare legislation on private practitioners will adversely affect our medical properties in the form of rent rates and tenant reimbursements; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances.. Investment in medical parks is capital intensive.. Our medical properties require periodic capital expenditures and renovation to remain competitive. Maintaining our occupancy upon renewals or locating new tenants may require rent concessions, tenant improvements or a combination of both. Additionally, the recent federal healthcare legislation has caused some medical professionals to increase their space requirements. Our ability to relocate our tenants into more suitable space within our medical parks may be limited due to the size of the suites currently vacant and the willingness of tenants to relocate within the building.  Our ability to fund capital expenditures may be limited.. Federal health care legislation has affected medical office real estate.. Our tenants in our Cortlandt Manor and Port Jefferson properties are healthcare service providers. The healthcare industry is subject to substantial regulation and faces increased regulation particularly relating to fraud, waste and abuse, cost control and healthcare management. The healthcare industry may experience a significant expansion of applicable federal, state or local laws and regulations, previously enacted or future healthcare reform, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations or changes in enforcement priorities, all of which could materially impact the business and operations of our tenants and therefore the marketability of our medical office properties. The recent U.S. presidential election, coupled with a Republican-controlled Congress, makes the repeal and replacement of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Affordable Care Act”) a possibility. In 2017, Congress unsuccessfully sought to replace substantial parts of the Affordable Care Act with different mechanisms for facilitating insurance coverage in the commercial and Medicaid markets, but was able to enact legislation eliminating the tax penalty for individuals who do not purchase insurance. A shift toward less comprehensive health insurance coverage and increased consumer cost-sharing on health expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our tenants’ financial conditions and results of operations and, in turn, their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations.. Our tenants are subject to extensive federal, state, and local licensure laws, regulations and industry standards governing business operations, the physical plant and structure, patient rights and privacy and security of health information. Our tenants’ failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of licensure, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines or other penalties, suspension or exclusion from the government sponsored Medicare and Medicaid programs, loss of accreditation or certification, or closure of the facility. In addition, efforts by third-party payors, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private insurance carriers, including health maintenance organizations and other health plans, impose greater discounts and more stringent cost controls upon healthcare provider operations (through changes in reimbursement rates and methodologies, discounted fee structures, the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk or otherwise). Our tenants may also face significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees, all of which could impact their ability to pay rent or other obligations to us.. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition.. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in the portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited.. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including:. • \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse changes in international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions;. • \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in interest rates and in the cost and terms of debt financing;. • \t\t\t \t\t\tabsence of liquidity in credit markets which limits the availability and amount of debt financing;. • \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances;. • \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures;. • \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in operating expenses; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\tcivil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, and acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of the terrorist acts, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001.. We are subject to risks stemming from the New York State budget crisis.. Our industrial park borders Stony Brook University and the University’s leases with us represent over 15% of our overall rentable space.  The New York State budget crisis put additional pressure on Stony Brook University, part of the State University of New York system, to cut costs.  Many of our tenants service the local area and may be adversely affected by a reduction in business from Stony Brook University.  Stony Brook University currently has two remaining lease with Gyrodyne.. 24. Geographic concentration of our properties will make our business vulnerable to economic downturns in the New York metropolitan area.. All our remaining properties are located in the New York metropolitan area, specifically Northern Westchester and eastern Long Island. Economic conditions in these locations will significantly affect our revenues and the value of our properties. Business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other similar factors may adversely affect the economic climate in these areas.  Any resulting oversupply or reduced demand for space in the New York metropolitan area would therefore have a disproportionate negative impact on our revenues.. We are subject to risks associated with renovations and capital improvements.. Our properties have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacement of HVAC systems, parking lots, and other structural items.  Tenants often require us to make periodic capital improvements as a condition of renewing leases.  For the year ended December 31, 2017 we spent approximately $566,000 on capital improvements to our real estate portfolio. Capital improvements and renovation projects may give rise to the following risks:. • \t\t\t \t\t\tpossible environmental problems;. • \t\t\t \t\t\tconstruction cost overruns and delays;. • \t\t\t \t\t\ta possible shortage of available cash to fund capital improvements and the related possibility that financing for these capital improvements may not be available to us on affordable terms; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\tuncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun.. The costs associated with capital improvements on our properties could adversely affect our financial condition.. Cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents may adversely affect our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our tenant and other business relationships, all of which could negatively impact our financial condition.. A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our information resources. These incidents may be an intentional attack or an unintentional event and could involve gaining unauthorized access to our information systems for purposes of misappropriating assets, stealing confidential information, corrupting data or causing operational disruption. The result of these incidents may include disrupted operations, misstated or unreliable financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection and insurance costs, litigation and damage to our tenant and investor relationships. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our information systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. There is no guarantee that any processes, procedures and internal controls we have implemented or will implement will prevent cyber intrusions, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, operations, tenant and other business relationships or confidential information.. Our mortgage indebtedness could adversely impact the value of our shareholders’ investment if the value of the property securing the debt falls or if we are forced to refinance the debt during adverse economic conditions.. On March 21, 2018, our wholly owned subsidiary, GSD Flowerfield, LLC, closed on a non-revolving credit line with a bank for up to $3,000,000, secured by approximately 31.8 acres of the Flowerfield Industrial Park including the respective buildings and related leases and guaranteed by the Company.  If there is a shortfall between the cash flow from the mortgaged property and the cash flow needed to service mortgage debt on that property, then the amount available for distributions to shareholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring mortgage debt generally increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default and our ability to pay cash distributions to our shareholders will be adversely affected.. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders.. As of March 21, 2018, we had a revolving credit line with a bank for up to $3,000,000. The credit line provides for an interest only phase for the first eight months of the loan (“Interest-Only Phase”) after which it will automatically convert to a permanent loan maturing on November 30, 2025 (84 months after conversion to a permanent loan) (the “Permanent Phase”). The interest rate during the Interest-Only Phase will be a variable rate equal to the daily highest prime rate published by the Wall Street Journal plus 100 basis points (1% rounded up to the nearest 1/8 percent). During the Permanent Phase, the Company will pay interest at a fixed rate.  Increases in interest rates during the Interest-Only Phase would increase our interest costs, which could reduce our cash flows and our ability to pay distributions to shareholders.. Changes in federal tax law could adversely affect distributions to our shareholders.. Legislative, regulatory or administrative changes could be enacted or promulgated at any time, either prospectively or with retroactive effect, and may adversely affect the Company and our shareholders.  Gyrodyne is not subject to an entity level income tax but rather is treated as a partnership for tax purposes, with its items of income, gain, deduction, loss and credit being reported on the Company’s information return, on Form 1065, and allocated annually on Schedule K-1 to our shareholders pro rata. Tax legislation informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act”) was signed into law on December 22, 2017, generally effective for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018. In addition to modifying income tax rates for individuals and corporations, the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act made certain changes to the tax treatment for pass-through entities, such as Gyrodyne.  Shareholders are urged to consult a tax advisor regarding the implications of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on their shares in Gyrodyne."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
