[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risk factors and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making any investment decisions regarding our securities. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our securities could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment.. Our business could be adversely affected by declines in construction and industrial activities, or a downturn in the economy in general, which could lead to decreased demand for equipment, depressed equipment rental rates and lower sales prices, resulting in a decline in our revenues, gross margins and operating results.. Our equipment is principally used in connection with construction and industrial activities. Consequently, a downturn in construction or industrial activities, or the economy in general, may lead to a decrease in the demand for equipment or depress rental rates and the sales prices for our equipment. Our business may also be negatively impacted, either temporarily or long-term, by:. •  a reduction in spending levels by customers;. •  unfavorable credit markets affecting end-user access to capital;. •  adverse changes in federal, state and local government infrastructure spending;. •  an increase in the cost of construction materials;. •  adverse weather conditions or natural disasters which may affect a particular region;. 10. •  an increase in interest rates; or. •  terrorism or hostilities involving the United States.. Weakness or deterioration in the non-residential construction and industrial sectors caused by these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the future and may also have a material adverse effect on residual values realized on the disposition of our rental fleet. For example, during fiscal years 2009 and 2010, the economic downturn and related economic uncertainty, combined with weakness in the construction industry and a decrease in industrial activity, resulted in a significant decrease in the demand for our new and used equipment and depressed equipment rental rates, which resulted in decreased revenues and lower gross margins realized on our equipment rentals and on the sale of our new and used inventory during those periods. More recently, the decline in oil prices and the related downturn in oil industry activities during fiscal years 2014, 2015 and 2016 have resulted in a significant decrease in our new equipment sales, primarily the sale of new cranes, due to lower demand. Although oil prices have subsequently stabilized and improved slightly, we believe the uncertainty regarding future oil prices continues to impact customer capital expenditure decisions.. The inability to forecast trends accurately may have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition.. An economic downturn or economic uncertainty makes it difficult for us to forecast trends, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition. For example, the economic downturn of 2009 and 2010  -  which included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide and concerns that the worldwide economy may enter into a prolonged recessionary period  -  limited our ability, as well as the ability of our customers and our suppliers, to accurately forecast future product demand trends. More recently, declines in oil and natural gas prices, and uncertainty regarding future price levels, have negatively impacted the exploration, production and construction activity of our customers in those markets. Uncertainty regarding future equipment product demand could cause us to maintain excess equipment inventory and increase our equipment inventory carrying costs. Alternatively, this forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of equipment for sale or rental that could result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products and a loss of market shares.. Unfavorable conditions or disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely impact business conditions and the availability of credit.. Disruptions in the global capital and credit markets as a result of an economic downturn, economic uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our customers' ability to access capital and could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for business in the future. Additionally, unfavorable market conditions may depress demand for our products and services or make it difficult for our customers to obtain financing and credit on reasonable terms. Unfavorable market conditions also may cause more of our customers to be unable to meet their payment obligations to us, increasing delinquencies and credit losses. If we are unable to manage credit risk adequately, or if a large number of customers should have financial difficulties at the same time, our credit losses could increase above historical levels and our operating results would be adversely affected. Delinquencies and credit losses generally can be expected to increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. Moreover, our suppliers may be adversely impacted by unfavorable capital and credit markets, causing disruption or delay of product availability. These events could negatively impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding. As of December 31, 2017, we had total outstanding indebtedness of approximately $951.5 million, consisting of the $950.0 million aggregate amounts outstanding under our senior unsecured notes and $1.5 million of capital lease obligations. As of February 15, 2018, we had borrowing availability under our senior credit facility (the \"Credit Facility\") of $742.3 million, net of a $7.7 million outstanding letter of credit.. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:. •  increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. 11. •  limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes.. We expect to use cash flow from operations and borrowings under our Credit Facility to meet our current and future financial obligations, including funding our operations, debt service and capital expenditures. Our ability to make these payments depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which we cannot control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we do not have enough capital, we may be forced to reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, including the senior unsecured notes and our Credit Facility, on or before maturity. We cannot make any assurances that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future indebtedness, including the agreements governing the senior unsecured notes and the Credit Facility may limit our ability to pursue any of these alternatives.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot make assurances that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The Credit Facility and the indenture governing the senior unsecured notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from such dispositions. Any proceeds we do receive from a disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sells assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including the Credit Facility or the indenture governing the senior unsecured notes.. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result:. •  our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable;. •  the lenders under our credit facilities, including the Credit Facility, could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing our borrowings; and. •  we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur more indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks described above.. Under the terms of the agreements governing the Credit Facility and the senior unsecured notes, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial indebtedness in the future.. Additionally, our Credit Facility provides revolving commitments of up to $750.0 million in the aggregate. As of February 15, 2018, we had $742.3 million of availability under the Credit Facility, net of a $7.7 million outstanding letter of credit. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks that we now face relating to our substantial indebtedness could intensify.. The agreements governing the Credit Facility and our senior unsecured notes restrict our business and our ability to engage in certain corporate and financial transactions.. The agreements governing the Credit Facility and the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants that, among other things, restrict or limit our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to:. •  incur more debt;. •  pay dividends and make distributions;. 12. •  issue preferred stock of subsidiaries;. •  make investments;. •  repurchase stock;. •  create liens;. •  enter into transactions with affiliates;. •  enter into sale and lease-back transactions;. •  merge or consolidate; and. •  transfer and sell assets.. Our ability to borrow under the Credit Facility depends upon compliance with the restrictions contained in the Credit Facility. Events beyond our control could affect our ability to meet these covenants. In addition, the Credit Facility requires us to meet certain financial conditions tests and availability thereunder is subject to borrowing base availability.. Events beyond our control can affect our ability to meet these financial conditions tests and to comply with other provisions governing the Credit Facility and the senior unsecured notes. Our failure to comply with obligations under the agreements governing the Credit Facility and the senior unsecured notes may result in an event of default under the agreements governing the Credit Facility and the senior unsecured notes, respectively. A default, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of this indebtedness and our other indebtedness. We may not be able to remedy these defaults. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to pay the accelerated indebtedness and may not have the ability to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all.. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under the Credit Facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. As such, our results of operations are sensitive to movements in interest rates. There are many economic factors outside our control that have in the past and may, in the future, impact rates of interest including publicly announced indices that underlie the interest obligations related to a certain portion of our debt. Factors that impact interest rates include governmental monetary policies, inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply, international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our results of operations would be adversely impacted. Such increases in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations.. Our business could be hurt if we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, resulting in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. In addition, our inability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ongoing results of operations.. The cash that we generate from our business, together with cash that we may borrow under our Credit Facility, if available, may not be sufficient to fund our capital requirements. We may require additional financing to obtain capital for, among other purposes, purchasing equipment, completing acquisitions, establishing new locations and refinancing existing indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness that we incur will make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional financing in the future, our business could be adversely affected by reducing our ability to increase revenues and profitability.. In addition, our ability to refinance indebtedness will depend in part on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. In addition, prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing could increase our interest expense. A refinancing of our indebtedness could also require us to comply with more onerous covenants and further restrict our business operations. Our inability to refinance our indebtedness or to do so upon attractive terms could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and make us vulnerable to adverse industry and general economic conditions.. 13. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate, which could result in a decline in our profitability and make it more difficult for us to grow our business.. Our revenue and operating results have historically varied from quarter to quarter. Periods of decline could result in an overall decline in profitability and make it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness and grow our business. We expect our quarterly results to continue to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, including:. •  general economic conditions in the markets where we operate;. •  the cyclical nature of our customers' business, particularly our construction customers and customers in the oil and gas industry;. •  seasonal sales and rental patterns of our construction customers, with sales and rental activity tending to be lower in the winter months;. •  changes in the size of our rental fleet and/or in the rate at which we sell our used equipment from the fleet;. •  an overcapacity of fleet in the equipment rental industry;. •  severe weather and seismic conditions temporarily affecting the regions where we operate;. •  changes in corporate spending for plants and facilities or changes in government spending for infrastructure projects;. •  changes in interest rates and related changes in our interest expense and our debt service obligations;. •  the possible need , from time to time, to record goodwill impairment charges or other write-offs or charges due to a variety of occurrences, such as the adoption of new accounting standards, the impairment of assets, rental location divestitures, dislocation in the equity and/or credit markets, consolidations or closings, restructurings, or the refinancing of existing indebtedness;. •  the effectiveness of integrating acquired businesses and new start-up locations; and. •  timing of acquisitions and new location openings and related costs.. In addition, we incur various costs when integrating newly acquired businesses or opening new start-up locations, and the profitability of a new location is generally expected to be lower in the initial months of operation.. We may not be able to facilitate our growth strategy by identifying or completing transactions with attractive acquisition candidates, which could limit our revenues and profitability. Future acquisitions may result in significant transaction expenses and we may involve significant costs. We may experience integration and consolidation risks associated with future acquisitions.. An element of our growth strategy is to selectively pursue on an opportunistic basis acquisitions of additional businesses, in particular rental companies that complement our existing business and footprint, such as our recent acquisition of Contractors Equipment Center, LLC (\"CEC\") in January 2018. The success of this element of our growth strategy depends, in part, on selecting strategic acquisition candidates at attractive prices. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates or complete the acquisition of any identified candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions, including financing alternatives. We expect to face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities and lead to higher acquisition costs. We may not have the financial resources necessary to consummate any acquisitions or the ability to obtain the necessary funds on satisfactory terms. Any future acquisitions may result in significant transaction expenses and risks associated with entering new markets. We may also be subject to claims by third parties related to the operations of these businesses prior to our acquisition and by sellers under the terms of our acquisition agreements.. We may not have sufficient management, financial and other resources to integrate and consolidate any future acquisitions. Any significant diversion of management's attention or any major difficulties encountered in the integration of the businesses we acquire, including CEC, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, which could decrease our profitability and make it more difficult for us to grow our business.  Among other things, these integration risks could include:. •  the loss of key employees;. •  the disruption of operations and business;. •  the retention of the existing clients and the retention or transition of customers and vendors;. •  the integration of corporate cultures and maintenance of employee morale;. •  inability to maintain and increase competitive presence;. 14. •  customer loss and revenue loss;. •  possible inconsistencies in standards, control procedures and policies;. •  unexpected problems with costs, operations, personnel, technology and credit;. •  problems with the assimilation of new operations, sites or personnel, which could divert resources from our regular operations; and/or. •  potential unknown liabilities.. Furthermore, general economic conditions or unfavorable global capital and credit markets could affect the timing and extent to which we successfully acquire or integrate new businesses, which could limit our revenues and profitability.. Fluctuations in the stock market, as well as general economic and market conditions, may impact the market price of our common stock.. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to general economic changes and other factors including, but not limited to:. •  variations in our quarterly operating results or results that vary from investor expectations;. •  changes in the strategy and actions taken by our competitors, including pricing changes;. •  securities analysts' elections to discontinue coverage of our common stock, changes in financial estimates by analysts or a downgrade of our common stock or of our sector by analysts;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. •  changes in the price of oil and other commodities;. •  investor perceptions of us and the equipment rental and distribution industry; and. •  national or regional catastrophes or circumstances and natural disasters, hostilities and acts of terrorism.. Broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of or in a manner that is disproportionate to any related impact on our operating performance. As an example, in the latter half of 2014 the price of oil fell significantly and the price further declined and remained depressed throughout 2015 and 2016, compared to pre-2014 price levels. We believe that this prolonged decline in oil prices and its impact on oil related economic activities was a significant factor in the price decline of our stock during the same period, even though other industrial and construction activities that are also primary drivers of our business generally remained at or above historic levels. Although oil prices have subsequently stabilized and improved slightly, we believe the uncertainty regarding future oil prices has an impact on the price of our stock. In addition, the stock market historically has experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, including those listed above and others, may harm the market price of our common stock.. We are subject to competition, which may have a material adverse effect on our business by reducing our ability to increase or maintain revenues or profitability.. The equipment rental and retail distribution industries are highly competitive and the equipment rental industry is highly fragmented. Many of the markets in which we operate are served by numerous competitors, ranging from national and multi-regional equipment rental companies to small, independent businesses with a limited number of locations. We generally compete on the basis of availability, quality, reliability, delivery and price. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do, and may be able to reduce rental rates or sales prices. We may encounter increased competition from existing competitors or new market entrants in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to facilitate our growth strategy by identifying and opening attractive start-up locations, which could limit our revenues and profitability.. An element of our growth strategy is to selectively identify and implement start-up locations in order to add new customers. The success of this element of our growth strategy depends, in part, on identifying strategic start-up locations.. 15. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to identify attractive start-up locations. Opening start-up locations may involve significant costs and limit our ability to expand our operations. Start-up locations may involve risks associated with entering new markets and we may face significant competition.. We may not have sufficient management, financial and other resources to successfully operate new locations. Any significant diversion of management's attention or any major difficulties encountered in the locations that we open in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, which could decrease our profitability and make it more difficult for us to grow our business. Furthermore, general economic conditions or unfavorable global capital and credit markets could affect the timing and extent to which we open new start-up locations, which could limit our revenues and profitability.. The continued payment of our quarterly dividend is subject to, among other things, the availability of funds and the discretion of our board of directors.. The payment of future dividends and the amount thereof is uncertain, at the sole discretion of our board of directors and considered by the board of directors each quarter. The payment of dividends is dependent upon, among other things, operating cash flow generated by our business, financial requirements for our operations, the execution of our growth strategy, the restrictions and covenants pursuant to our Credit Facility and senior unsecured notes, and the satisfaction of solvency tests imposed by the Delaware General Corporation Law and other applicable law for the declaration and payment of dividends.. We purchase a significant amount of our equipment from a limited number of manufacturers. Termination of one or more of our relationships with any of those manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, as we may be unable to obtain adequate or timely rental and sales equipment.. We purchase most of our rental and sales equipment from leading, nationally-known original equipment manufacturers (\"OEMs\"). For the year ended December 31, 2017, we purchased approximately 42% of our rental and sales equipment from three manufacturers (Grove/Manitowoc, Komatsu, and Genie Industries (Terex)). Although we believe that we have alternative sources of supply for the rental and sales equipment we purchase in each of our core product categories, termination of one or more of our relationships with any of these major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations if we were unable to obtain adequate or timely rental and sales equipment.. Our suppliers of new equipment may appoint additional distributors, sell directly or unilaterally terminate our distribution agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business due to a reduction of, or inability to increase, our revenues.. We are a distributor of new equipment and parts supplied by leading, nationally-known OEMs. Under our distribution agreements with these OEMs, manufacturers retain the right to appoint additional dealers and sell directly to national accounts and government agencies. We have both written and oral distribution agreements with our new equipment suppliers. Under our oral agreements with the OEMs, we operate under our established course of dealing with the supplier and are subject to the applicable state law regarding such relationship. In most instances, the OEMs may appoint additional distributors, elect to sell to customers directly or unilaterally terminate their distribution agreements with us at any time without cause. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations due to a reduction of, or an inability to increase, our revenues.. The cost of new equipment that we sell or purchase for use in our rental fleet may increase and therefore we may spend more for such equipment. In some cases, we may not be able to procure new equipment on a timely basis due to supplier constraints.. The cost of new equipment from manufacturers that we sell or purchase for use in our rental fleet may increase as a result of increased raw material costs, including increases in the cost of steel, which is a primary material used in most of the equipment we use, or due to increased regulatory requirements, such as those related to emissions. These increases could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations in future periods if we are not able to pass such cost increases through to our customers.. Our rental fleet is subject to residual value risk upon disposition.. The market value of any given piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. The market value of used rental equipment depends on several factors, including:. •  the market price for new equipment of a like kind;. •  wear and tear on the equipment relative to its age;. •  the time of year that it is sold (prices are generally higher during the construction season);. •  worldwide and domestic demands for used equipment;. 16. •  the supply of used equipment on the market; and. •  general economic conditions.. We include in operating income the difference between the sales price and the depreciated value of an item of equipment sold. Although for the year ended December 31, 2017, we sold used equipment from our rental fleet at an average selling price of approximately 149.6% of net book value, we cannot assure you that used equipment selling prices will not decline. Any significant decline in the selling prices for used equipment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We incur maintenance and repair costs associated with our rental fleet equipment that could have a material adverse effect on our business in the event these costs are greater than anticipated.. As our fleet of rental equipment ages, the cost of maintaining such equipment, if not replaced within a certain period of time, generally increases. Determining the optimal age for our rental fleet equipment is subjective and requires considerable estimates by management. We have made estimates regarding the relationship between the age of our rental fleet equipment, and the maintenance and repair costs, and the market value of used equipment. Our future operating results could be adversely affected because our maintenance and repair costs may be higher than estimated and market values of used equipment may fluctuate.. Security breaches and other disruptions in our information technology systems, including our customer relationship management system, could limit our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations, compromise our or our customers' and suppliers' confidential information or otherwise adversely affect our operating results or business reputation.. Our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions, including processing, transmitting, storing, managing and supporting a variety of business processes, activities and information. Further, as we pursue our strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations, we are also expanding and improving our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. Any disruption in any of these systems, including our customer management system, or the failure of any of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions.. Additionally, we collect and store sensitive data, including proprietary business information and the proprietary business information of our customers and suppliers, in data centers and on information technology networks, including cloud-based networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations and strategy. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by cyber criminals or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, terrorist acts or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Further, the growing use and rapid evolution of technology, including mobile devices, has heightened the risk of unintentional data breaches or leaks. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. In addition, as security threats continue to evolve we may need to invest additional resources to protect the security of our systems or to comply with privacy, data security, cybersecurity and data protection laws applicable to our business.. Any failure to effectively prevent, detect and/or recover from any such access, disclosure or other loss of information, or to comply with any such current or future law related thereto, could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations, and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business.. Fluctuations in fuel costs or reduced supplies of fuel could harm our business.. We could be adversely affected by limitations on fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices that result in higher costs to us for transporting equipment from one branch to another branch or one region to another region. A significant or protracted disruption of fuel supplies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Hurricanes, other adverse weather events, national or regional catastrophes or natural disasters could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. Our market areas in the Gulf Coast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States are susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. Future hurricanes could result in damage to certain of our facilities and the equipment located at such facilities, or equipment on rent with customers in those areas. In addition, climate change could lead to an increase in intensity or occurrence of hurricanes or other adverse weather events, including severe winter storms. Future occurrences of these events, as well as regional or national catastrophes or natural disasters, and their effects may adversely impact our business or results of operations.. We are dependent on key personnel. A loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, which could result in a decline in our revenues and profitability.. Our senior and regional managers have an average of approximately 25 years of industry experience. Our branch managers have extensive knowledge and industry experience as well. Our success is dependent, in part, on the experience and skills of our management team. Competition for top management talent within our industry is generally significant. If we are unable to fill and keep filled all of our senior management positions, or if we lose the services of any key member of our senior management team and are unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we may be challenged to effectively manage our business and execute our strategy.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report financial results or prevent fraud.. Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention of fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. We must annually evaluate our internal procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and auditors to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls. If we fail to remedy or maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or stockholder litigation.. In addition, failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain a system of internal controls that fully complies with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or that our management and independent registered public accounting firm will continue to conclude that our internal controls are effective.. We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims that could adversely affect our operating results. The nature of our business exposes us to various liability claims, which may exceed the level of our insurance coverage resulting in us not being fully protected.. We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation in general can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Responding to lawsuits brought against us, or legal actions that we may initiate, can often be expensive and time-consuming. Unfavorable outcomes from these claims and/or lawsuits could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition, and we could incur substantial monetary liability and/or be required to change our business practices.. Our business exposes us to claims for personal injury, death or property damage resulting from the use of the equipment we rent or sell and from injuries caused in motor vehicle accidents in which our delivery and service personnel are involved and other employee related matters. Additionally, we could be subject to potential litigation associated with compliance with various laws and governmental regulations at the federal, state or local levels, such as those relating to the protection of persons with disabilities, employment, health, safety, security and other regulations under which we operate.. We carry comprehensive insurance, subject to deductibles, at levels we believe are sufficient to cover existing and future claims made during the respective policy periods. However, we may be exposed to multiple claims, and, as a result, we could incur significant out-of-pocket costs before reaching the deductible amount which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of such insurance policies may increase significantly upon renewal of those policies as a result of general rate increases for the type of insurance we carry as well as our historical experience and experience in our industry. Although we have not experienced any material losses that were not covered by insurance, our existing or future claims may exceed the coverage level of our insurance, and such insurance may not continue to be available on economically reasonable terms, or at all. If we are required to pay significantly higher premiums for insurance, are not able to maintain insurance coverage at affordable rates or if. 18. we must pay amounts in excess of claims covered by our insurance, we could experience higher costs that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our future operating results and financial position could be negatively affected by impairment charges to our goodwill or other long-lived assets.. When we acquire a business, we record goodwill as the excess of the consideration transferred plus the fair value of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired. At December 31, 2017, we had goodwill of approximately $31.2 million. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") 350, Intangibles - Goodwill & Other (\"ASC 350\"), we test goodwill for impairment on October 1 of each year, and on an interim date if factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test.. If economic conditions deteriorate and result in significant declines in operating results and/or significant declines in our stock price, or if there are significant downward revisions in the present value of our estimated future cash flows, additional impairments to one or more reporting units could occur in future periods, and such impairments could be material. A downward revision in the present value of estimated future cash flows could be caused by a number of factors, including, among others, adverse changes in the business climate, negative industry or economic trends, decline in performance in our industry sector, or a decline in market multiples for competitors. Our estimates regarding future cash flows are inherently uncertain and changes in our underlying assumptions and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and/or goodwill impairment. Future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions as to revenues, costs or other factors that may result in changes in our estimates of future cash flows. We can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge will not occur in a future period. Such a charge could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. We will continue to monitor on an ongoing basis the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets (see \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" in Part II, Item 7).. Labor disputes could disrupt our ability to serve our customers and/or lead to higher labor costs.. As of December 31, 2017, we have approximately 66 employees in Utah, a significant territory in our geographic footprint, who are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and approximately 2,027 employees who are not represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. Various unions periodically seek to organize certain of our nonunion employees. Union organizing efforts or collective bargaining negotiations could potentially lead to work stoppages and/or slowdowns or strikes by certain of our employees, which could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. Further, settlement of actual or threatened labor disputes or an increase in the number of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements can have unknown effects on our labor costs, productivity and flexibility.. We have operations throughout the United States, which exposes us to multiple state and local regulations. Changes in applicable law, regulations or requirements, or our material failure to comply with any of them, can increase our costs and have other negative impacts on our business.. Our 83 branch locations in the United States are located in 22 different states, which exposes us to a host of different state and local regulations. These laws and requirements address multiple aspects of our operations, such as worker safety, consumer rights, privacy, employee benefits and more, and can often have different requirements in different jurisdictions. Changes in these requirements, or any material failure by our branches to comply with them, could increase our costs, affect our reputation, limit our business, drain management's time and attention or otherwise, generally impact our operations in adverse ways.. We could be adversely affected by environmental and safety requirements, which could force us to increase significant capital and other operational costs and may subject us to unanticipated liabilities.. Our operations, like those of other companies engaged in similar businesses, require the handling, use, storage and disposal of certain regulated materials. As a result, we are subject to the requirements of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. We may not be in complete compliance with all such requirements at all times. We are subject to potentially significant civil or criminal fines or penalties if we fail to comply with any of these requirements. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures in order to comply with these laws and regulations. However, the requirements of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, and could become more stringent in the future. It is possible that these requirements will change or that liabilities will arise in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Environmental laws also impose obligations and liability for the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substance spills or releases. These liabilities can be imposed on the parties generating or disposing of such substances or the operator of the affected property, often without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous substances.. 19. Accordingly, we may become liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for remediation costs even if a contaminated property is not currently owned or operated by us, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to our ownership or operation of the property. Given the nature of our operations (which involve the use of petroleum products, solvents and other hazardous substances for fueling and maintaining our equipment and vehicles), there can be no assurance that prior site assessments or investigations have identified all potential instances of soil or groundwater contamination. Future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to additional remediation liabilities, which may be material.. Our business may be materially affected by changes to fiscal and tax policies. Negative or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our results of operations. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Act\") signed into law on December 22, 2017 results in significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Such changes include a reduction in the corporate tax rate (from 35% to 21%) and limitations on certain corporate deductions and credits, among other changes. As of December 31, 2017, we have not completed our accounting for all the tax effects of the Act. However, we have made a reasonable estimate of the effects of the Act on our existing deferred tax balances.. Our analysis of potential future impacts from the Act is ongoing. Certain of these changes could potentially impact the measurement of our tax balances as well as have a future negative impact on our business, as could any uncertainty in terms of the implementation and interpretation of the new changes. In addition, adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations or future changes in tax law could lead to changes in the value of tax assets or liabilities that we currently or in the future may hold, which could materially affect our results of operations."
