[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. <U+FEFF>. We face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below.. <U+FEFF>. While we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. Also, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently do not consider significant, could also potentially impair, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. Risks Related to Economic and Market Conditions. <U+FEFF>. We may be vulnerable to certain sectors of the economy and to economic conditions both generally and locally across the specific markets in which we operate.. <U+FEFF>. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by macroeconomic factors that affect the U.S. economy. Unfavorable economic conditions, particularly in the Gulf South region, could significantly affect the demand for our loans and other products, the ability of borrowers to repay loans, and the value of collateral securing loans.  A substantial portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. In weak economies, or in areas where real estate market conditions are distressed, we may experience a higher than normal level of nonperforming real estate loans. The collateral value of the portfolio and the revenue stream from those loans could come under stress, and additional provisions for the allowance for loan and lease losses could be necessitated. Our ability to dispose of foreclosed real estate at prices at or above the respective carrying values could also be impaired, causing additional losses.. <U+FEFF>. The energy sector of the economy experienced an increase in drilling activity and demand over the prior year; however, the sector remains under stress. The downturn in this industry has affected the performance of our energy loan portfolio and is expected to continue to have such effects in the near term.  Although the price of oil continues to trend upward, management expects a lag in the recovery of energy service and support credits. Additional risk rating downgrades could occur, which may result in additional loan loss provisions, a higher allowance for loan losses, and additional charge-offs. As of December 31, 2017, energy or energy-related loans comprised approximately 5.6% of our loan portfolio. Given the importance of the energy industry to the overall economies of Texas and Louisiana, two of our core markets, the performance of other business and commercial segments in these markets may become adversely affected when the energy sector is under stress.. <U+FEFF>. Volatility in global financial markets may have a spillover effect that would ultimately impair the performance of the U.S. economy.. Certain changes in interest rates, mortgage origination, inflation, deflation, or the financial markets could affect our results of operations, demand for our products and our ability to deliver products efficiently.. <U+FEFF>. Our assets and liabilities are primarily monetary in nature and we are subject to significant risks tied to changes in interest rates that are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control. Our ability to operate profitably is largely dependent upon net interest income. Net interest income is the primary component of our earnings and is affected by both local external factors such as economic conditions in the Gulf South and local competition for loans and deposits, as well as broader influences, such as federal monetary policy and market interest rates. Unexpected movement in interest rates markedly changing the slope of the current yield curve could cause our net interest margins to decrease, subsequently reducing net interest income. In addition, such changes could adversely affect the valuation of our assets and liabilities.. <U+FEFF>. As the Federal Reserve Board increases the Fed Funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the U.S. economy.  Further, changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence (i) the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities, (ii) the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, (iii) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (iv) the fair value of our assets and liabilities, and (v) the reinvestment risk associated with changes in the duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio. When interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in net interest income.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, loan originations, and potentially loan revenues, could be adversely impacted by sharply rising interest rates. If market rates of interest were to increase, it would increase debt service requirements for some of our borrowers; adversely affect those borrowers' ability to pay as contractually obligated; potentially reduce loan demand or result in additional delinquencies or charge-offs; and increase the cost of our deposits, which are a primary source of funding.. 17. Table of Contents. We are also subject to the following risks:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tan underperforming stock market could adversely affect wealth management fees associated with managed securities portfolios and could also reduce brokerage transactions, therefore reducing investment brokerage revenues; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tan increase in inflation could cause our operating costs related to salaries and benefits, technology, and supplies to increase at a faster pace than revenues.. <U+FEFF>. The fair market value of our securities portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations.. <U+FEFF>. Although management believes it has implemented an effective asset and liability management strategy to manage the potential effects of changes in interest rates, including the use of adjustable rate and/or short-term assets, and FHLB advances or longer term repurchase agreements, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of our operation and our strategies may not always be successful in managing the risk associated with changes in interest rates.. <U+FEFF>. The financial soundness and stability of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. <U+FEFF>. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and financial soundness and stability of other financial institutions as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships with such institutions. We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, and even rumors regarding, other financial institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to effect such transactions and could lead to losses or defaults by us. In addition, a number of our transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. Additionally, our credit risk may be increased if the collateral we hold in connection with such transactions cannot be realized or can only be liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to cover the full amount of our financial exposure. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability.. <U+FEFF>. Our financial performance is affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open market transactions in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, we cannot predict the potential impact of future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, and loan demand on our business and earnings. Furthermore, the actions of the U.S. government and other governments may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption, material decreases in the values of certain of our financial assets and other adverse effects.. <U+FEFF>. Tax law and regulatory changes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017 provides significant changes to U.S. corporate and individual tax laws. The Act is expected to stimulate the U.S. economy, but the extent and timing of tangible benefits are uncertain.  Future changes to tax laws, including a repeal of all or part of this Act, could significantly impact our business in the form of greater than expected income tax expense. Such changes may also negatively impact the financial condition of our customers and/or overall economic conditions.. <U+FEFF>. Governmental responses to market disruptions and other events may be inadequate and may have unintended consequences.. <U+FEFF>. Congress and financial regulators may implement measures designed to stabilize financial markets in periods of disruption.  The overall impact of these efforts on the financial markets may be unclear and could adversely affect our business.. <U+FEFF>. We compete with a number of financial services companies that are not subject to the same degree of regulatory oversight. The impact of the existing regulatory framework and any future changes to it could negatively affect our ability to compete with these institutions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and prospects.. <U+FEFF>. We may need to rely on the financial markets to provide needed capital.. <U+FEFF>. Our common stock is listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. If our capital resources prove in the future to be inadequate to meet our capital requirements, we may need to raise additional debt or equity capital. If conditions in the capital markets are not favorable, we may be constrained in raising capital. We maintain a consistent analyst following; therefore, downgrades in our. 18. Table of Contents. prospects by one or more of our analysts may cause our stock price to fall and significantly limit our ability to access the markets for additional capital requirements. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when and if needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The interest rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we, our affiliates and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. Our credit ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and some factors not entirely within our control such as conditions affecting the financial services industry generally, and remain subject to change at any time. A downgrade to the credit rating of us or our affiliates could affect our ability to access the capital markets, increase our borrowing cost and negatively impact our profitability. A downgrade to us, our affiliates or our securities could create obligations or liabilities to us under the terms of our outstanding securities that could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, a downgrade to the credit rating of any particular security issued by us or our affiliates could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold.. <U+FEFF>. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. In addition, geopolitical and worldwide market conditions may cause disruption or volatility in the U.S. equity and debt markets, which could hinder our ability to issue debt and equity securities in the future on favorable terms.. <U+FEFF>. Securities analysts might not continue coverage on our common stock, which could adversely affect the market for our common stock.. <U+FEFF>. The trading price of our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business.  We do not have any control over these analysts, and they may not continue to cover our common stock.  If securities analysts do not continue to cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect our market price.  If securities analysts continue to cover our common stock, and our common stock is the subject of an unfavorable report, the price of our common stock may decline.   If one or more of these analysts cease to cover us or fail to publish regular reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price or trading volume of our common stock to decline.. <U+FEFF>. Risks Related to the Financial Services Industry. <U+FEFF>. We must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity.. <U+FEFF>. Effective liquidity management is essential for the operation of our business. We require sufficient liquidity to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities, as well as to meet regulatory requirements. Our access to sources of liquidity in amounts adequate to fund our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy generally. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include an economic downturn that affects the geographic markets in which our loans and operations are concentrated, or any material deterioration of the credit markets. Our access to deposits may also be affected by the liquidity needs of our depositors and the loss of deposits to alternative investments. Although we have historically been successful in replacing maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to duplicate that success in the future, especially if a large number of our depositors were to withdraw their amounts on deposit. A failure to maintain an adequate level of liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. We may rely on the mortgage secondary market from time to time to provide liquidity.. <U+FEFF>. From time to time, we have sold to certain agencies certain types of mortgage loans that meet their conforming loan requirements in order to reduce our interest rate risk and provide liquidity. There is a risk that these agencies will limit or discontinue their purchases of loans that are conforming due to capital constraints, a change in the criteria for conforming loans or other factors. Additionally, various proposals have been made to reform the U.S. residential mortgage finance market, including the role of the agencies. The exact effects of any such reforms are not yet known, but may limit our ability to sell conforming loans to the agencies. If we are unable to continue to sell conforming loans to the agencies, our ability to fund, and thus originate, additional mortgage loans may be adversely affected, which would in turn adversely affect our results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Greater loan losses than expected may adversely affect our earnings.. <U+FEFF>. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers will be unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit risk is inherent in our business and any material level of credit failure could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio relates principally to the creditworthiness of our corporate borrowers and the value of the real estate. 19. Table of Contents. pledged as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will depend on the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. Our credit risk with respect to our energy loan portfolio is subject to commodity pricing that is determined by factors outside of our control.. <U+FEFF>. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated loan losses based on a number of factors. This process requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including analysis of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. If our assumptions or judgments prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. Losses in excess of the existing allowance or any provisions for loan losses taken to increase the allowance will reduce our net income and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Future provisions for loan losses may vary materially from the amounts of past provisions.. <U+FEFF>. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.. <U+FEFF>. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we rely in substantial part on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to loan defaults, financial losses, regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects with respect to our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to a variety of risks in connection with any sale of loans we may conduct.. <U+FEFF>. From time to time we may sell all or a portion of one of more loan portfolios, and in connection therewith we may make certain representations and warranties to the purchaser concerning the loans sold and the procedures under which those loans have been originated and serviced. If any of these representations and warranties are incorrect, we may be required to indemnify the purchaser for any related losses, or we may be required to repurchase part or all of the affected loans. We may also be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default by the borrower on a loan we have sold. If we are required to make any indemnity payments or repurchases and do not have a remedy available to us against a solvent counterparty to the loan or loans, we may not be able to recover our losses resulting from these indemnity payments and repurchases. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. Risks Related to Our Operations. <U+FEFF>. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause financial losses.. <U+FEFF>. Our ability to adequately conduct and grow our business is dependent on our ability to create and maintain an appropriate operational and organizational control infrastructure. Operational risk can arise in numerous ways including employee fraud, theft or malfeasance; customer fraud; and control lapses in bank operations and information technology. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors in processing or recording transactions appropriately may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered. Our dependence on our employees and automated systems, including the automated systems used by acquired entities and third parties, to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical failures or tampering of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We are also subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. In addition, products, services and processes are continually changing and we may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from such changes. Failure to maintain an appropriate operational infrastructure can lead to loss of service to customers, additional expenditures related to the detection and correction of operational failures, reputational damage and loss of customer confidence, legal actions, and noncompliance with various laws and regulations.. <U+FEFF>. We continuously monitor our operational and technological capabilities and make modifications and improvements when we believe it will be cost effective to do so. However, there are inherent limits to such capabilities. In some instances, we may build and maintain these capabilities ourselves. We also outsource some of these functions to third parties. These third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. Third parties may fail to properly perform services or comply with applicable laws and regulations, and replacing third party providers could entail significant delay and expense. We also face risk from the integration of new infrastructure platforms and/or new third party providers of such platforms into existing businesses.. <U+FEFF>. 20. Table of Contents. An interruption or breach in our information systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could disrupt our business, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause financial losses.. <U+FEFF>. Our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor a large number of transactions on a daily basis and to securely process, store and transmit confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. We rely heavily on our information and communications systems and those of third parties who provide critical components of our information and communications infrastructure. These systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other information systems and facilities, or those of third parties on whom we rely, may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, cyber attack or other unforeseen catastrophic events, which may adversely affect our ability to process transactions or provide services.. <U+FEFF>. Although we make continuous efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our information systems and have not experienced a significant, successful cyber attack, threats to information systems continue to evolve and there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures, or those of third parties on whom we rely, will continue to be effective. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Threats to our information systems may originate externally from third parties such as foreign governments, organized crime and other hackers, outsourced or infrastructure support providers and application developers, or may originate internally. In addition, customers may use computers, smartphones and other mobile devices not protected by our control systems to access our products and services, including through bank kiosks or other remote locations. As a financial institution, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from attempts to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers' data and financial information, whether through cyber attack, cyber intrusion over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, spoofing, phishing, or spyware. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. <U+FEFF>. As a result, our information, communications and related systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to breaches or other significant disruptions that could: (1) disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems, which could in turn disrupt our operations and those of certain of our customers; (2) result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including account numbers and other financial information; (3) result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny and exposing us to civil litigation and possible financial liability; (4) require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; and (5) harm our reputation or impair our customer relationships. The occurrence of such failures, disruptions or security breaches could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. To date we have not experienced an attack that has significantly impacted our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. However, \"denial of service\" attacks continue to be launched against a number of other large financial services institutions. Such attacks adversely affected the performance of certain institutions' websites, and, in some instances, prevented customers from accessing secure websites for consumer and commercial applications. Future attacks could prove to be even more disruptive and damaging, and as threats continue to evolve, we may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks.. <U+FEFF>. We maintain an insurance policy which we believe provides sufficient coverage at a manageable expense for an institution of our size and scope with similar technological systems. However, we cannot assure that this policy will afford coverage for all possible losses or would be sufficient to cover all financial losses, damages, penalties, including lost revenues, should we experience any one or more of our or a third party's systems failing or experiencing attack.. <U+FEFF>. We must attract and retain skilled personnel.. <U+FEFF>. Our success depends, in substantial part, on our ability to attract and retain skilled, experienced personnel in key positions within the organization. Competition for qualified candidates in the activities and markets that we serve is intense. If we are not able to hire or retain these key individuals, we may be unable to execute our business strategies and may suffer adverse consequences to our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates insufficient to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees increase materially, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. Natural and man-made disasters could affect our ability to operate.. <U+FEFF>. Our market areas are susceptible to hurricanes. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes and flooding and man-made disasters, such as oil spills in the Gulf of Mexico, can disrupt our operations; result in significant damage to our properties or properties and businesses of. 21. Table of Contents. our borrowers, including property pledged as collateral; interrupt our ability to conduct business; and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate.. <U+FEFF>. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future hurricanes and other disasters will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such events could cause a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing the loans and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses.. <U+FEFF>. We are exposed to reputational risk.. <U+FEFF>. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged improper activities, such as lending practices, data security breaches, corporate governance policies and decisions, and acquisitions, any of which may damage our reputation. Additionally, actions taken by government regulators and community organizations may also damage our reputation. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers or expose us to litigation and regulatory action.. <U+FEFF>. Returns on pension plan assets may not be adequate to cover future funding requirements.. <U+FEFF>. Investments in the portfolio of our defined benefit pension plan may not provide adequate returns to fully fund benefits as they come due, thus causing higher annual plan expenses and requiring additional contributions by us to the defined benefit pension plan.. <U+FEFF>. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future.. <U+FEFF>. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock may necessitate our taking charges in the future to reflect an impairment of our goodwill. Future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of goodwill for impairment.. <U+FEFF>. Adverse events or circumstances could impact the recoverability of our intangible assets including loss of core deposits, significant losses of credit card accounts and/or balances, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent these intangible assets are deemed unrecoverable, a non-cash impairment charge would be recorded, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Risks Related to Our Business Strategy. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to industry competition which may have an impact upon our success.. <U+FEFF>. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully in a highly competitive market for banking and financial services, and we expect such challenges to continue. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do. We face competition in our regional market areas from other commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, mutual funds and insurance companies, and other financial institutions that offer similar services. Some of our nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive supervision and regulation to which we or the Bank are subject, and may accordingly have greater flexibility in competing for business. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by other firms. These developments could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, or being able to offer a broader range of products and services with more geographic range.. <U+FEFF>. Another competitive factor is that the financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology competitively to offer products and services that provide convenience to customers and create additional efficiencies in our operations. The widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt our systems to remain competitive and offer new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not be accepted by customers.. <U+FEFF>. If we are unable to successfully compete for new customers and to retain our current customers, our business, financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected, perhaps materially. In particular, if we experience an outflow of deposits as a result of our customers desiring to do business with our competitors, we may be forced to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to operate our business and meet withdrawal demands, thereby adversely affecting our net interest margin.. <U+FEFF>. 22. Table of Contents. Our future growth and financial performance may be negatively affected if we are unable to successfully execute our growth plans, which may include acquisitions and de novo branching.. <U+FEFF>. We may not be able to continue our organic, or internal, growth, which depends upon economic conditions, our ability to identify appropriate markets for expansion, our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, our ability to fund growth at a reasonable cost, sufficient capital to support our growth initiatives, competitive factors, banking laws, and other factors.. <U+FEFF>. We may seek to supplement our internal growth through acquisitions. We cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions, or whether any such acquisition will occur at all. Our acquisition efforts have traditionally focused on targeted banking entities in markets in which we currently operate and markets in which we believe we can compete effectively. However, as consolidation of the financial services industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We may compete with other financial services companies for acquisition opportunities, and many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more for an acquisition than we are able or willing to pay.. <U+FEFF>. We also may be required to use a substantial amount of our available cash and other liquid assets, or seek additional debt or equity financing, to fund future acquisitions. Such events could make us more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures, and additional debt service requirements may impose a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to locate suitable acquisition candidates willing to sell on terms acceptable to us, or we are otherwise unable to obtain additional debt or equity financing necessary for us to continue making acquisitions, we would be required to find other methods to grow our business and we may not grow at the same rate we have in the past, or at all.. <U+FEFF>. We must generally satisfy several conditions, including receiving federal regulatory approval, before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, and future prospects. The regulators also review current and projected capital ratios and levels; the competence, experience, and integrity of management and its record of compliance with laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act) and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. We cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. We may also be required to sell banks or branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval, which condition may not be acceptable to us or, if acceptable to us, may reduce the benefit of any acquisition. Additionally, federal and/or state regulators may charge us with regulatory and compliance failures of an acquired business that occurred prior to the date of acquisition, and such failures may result in the imposition of formal or informal enforcement actions.. <U+FEFF>. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully consolidate any business or assets we acquire with our existing business. The integration of acquired operations and assets may require substantial management effort, time and resources and may divert management's focus from other strategic opportunities and operational matters. Acquisitions may not perform as expected when the transaction was consummated and may be dilutive to our overall operating results. Specifically, acquisitions could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employees or other consequences that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees. We may also sell or consider selling one or more of our businesses. Such a sale would generally be subject to certain federal and/or state regulatory approvals, and may not be able to generate gains on sale or related increases in shareholder's equity commensurate with desirable levels.. <U+FEFF>. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, as opportunities arise, we plan to continue de novo branching as a part of our internal growth strategy and possibly enter into new markets through de novo branching. De novo branching and any acquisition carry numerous risks, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant costs and anticipated operating losses associated with establishing a de novo branch or a new bank;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inability to secure the services of qualified senior management;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe failure of the local market to accept the services of a new bank owned and managed by a bank holding company headquartered outside of the market area of the new bank;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teconomic downturns in the new market;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inability to obtain attractive locations within a new market at a reasonable cost; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls.. <U+FEFF>. We have experienced, to some extent, many of these risks with our de novo branching to date.. <U+FEFF>. 23. Table of Contents. Our decisions regarding the credit risk associated with the loan portfolios acquired in the FNBC transactions could be incorrect and our credit mark may be inadequate, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Before entering into the FNBC I transaction, the Company conducted extensive due diligence on a significant portion of the loans ultimately acquired.  However, the Company's review did not encompass each and every loan in the loan portfolio acquired.  In accordance with customary industry practices, the Company evaluated the loan portfolio based on various factors including, among other things, historical loss experience, economic risks associated with each loan category, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, and general economic conditions, both local and national.  In this process, the Company's management made various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness and financial condition of the borrowers, the value of the real estate, which is obtained from independent appraisers, other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of the loans, the existence of any guarantees and the economic environment in which the borrowers operate.  If the Company's assumptions and judgments turn out to be incorrect, including as a result of the fact that its due diligence review did not cover each individual loan, the Company's estimated credit mark against the loan portfolio in total may be insufficient to cover actual loan losses after the transaction closes, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside management's control may require an increase in the provision for loan losses.  Material additions to the credit mark and/or allowance for loan losses would materially decrease the Company's net income.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in retail distribution strategies and consumer behavior may adversely impact our investments in bank premises, equipment, technology and other assets and may lead to increased expenditures to change our retail distribution channel.. <U+FEFF>. We have significant investments in bank premises and equipment for our branch network.  Advances in technology such as e-commerce, telephone, internet and mobile banking, and in-branch self-service technologies including automated teller machines and other equipment, as well as an increasing customer preference for these other methods of accessing our products and services, could decrease the value of our branch network, technology, or other retail distribution physical assets and may cause us to change our retail distribution strategy, close and/or sell certain branches or parcels of land held for development and restructure or reduce our remaining branches and work force. These actions could lead to losses on these assets or could adversely impact the carrying value of any long-lived assets and may lead to increased expenditures to renovate, reconfigure or close a number of our remaining branches or to otherwise reform our retail distribution channel.. <U+FEFF>. Risks Related to the Legal and Regulatory Environment. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to regulation by various federal and state entities.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to the regulations of the Commission, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the CFPB and the MDBCF. New regulations issued by these agencies may adversely affect our ability to carry on our business activities. We are subject to various federal and state laws, and certain changes in these laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations. Other than the federal securities laws, the laws and regulations governing our business are intended primarily for the protection of our depositors, our customers, the financial system and the FDIC insurance fund, not our shareholders or other creditors. Further, we must obtain approval from our regulators before engaging in certain activities, and our regulators have the ability to compel us to, or restrict us from, taking certain actions entirely, such as increasing dividends, entering into merger or acquisition transactions, acquiring or establishing new branches, and entering into certain new businesses. Noncompliance with certain of these regulations may impact our business plans, including our ability to branch, offer certain products, or execute existing or planned business strategies.. <U+FEFF>. The U.S. government responded to the 2008 financial crisis at an unprecedented level by introducing various actions and passing legislation such as the Dodd-Frank Act that place increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as the one that occurred in 2008-2009. New regulations from the CFPB, which was established by the Dodd-Frank Act, such as the Ability to Repay Rules, may materially raise the risk of consummating consumer credit transactions. The full impact on our business and operations will not be fully known until regulations implementing the statute are fully implemented and applied. The new rules issued in the wake of the Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased compliance costs resulting from possible future consumer and fair lending regulations.. <U+FEFF>. Additionally, the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act have impacted our regulatory capital levels. Basel III and its regulations require bank holding companies and banks to undertake significant activities to demonstrate compliance with the new and higher capital standards. Compliance with these rules impose additional costs on banking entities and their holding companies. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital as well as greater liquidity going forward could limit our business activities and our ability to maintain dividends. In addition, the new liquidity standards could require us to increase our holdings of highly liquid short-term investments, thereby reducing our ability to invest in longer-term, potentially higher yielding assets. We may also be required to pay significantly higher deposit insurance premiums if the number of bank failures or the cost of. 24. Table of Contents. resolving failed banks increase. For additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank Act, Basel III and other regulations to which our business is subject, see \"Supervision and Regulation.\". <U+FEFF>. Any of the laws or regulations to which we are subject, including tax laws, regulations or their interpretations, may be modified or changed from time to time, and we cannot be assured that such modifications or changes will not adversely affect us. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws or regulations could result in sanctions by regulatory authorities, civil monetary penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"), including the accounting rules and regulations of the Commission and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\"), requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions that impact our financial statements by affecting the value of our assets or liabilities and results of operations. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because materially different amounts may be reported if different estimates or assumptions are used. If such estimates or assumptions underlying our financial statements are incorrect, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. From time to time, the FASB and the Commission change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of such standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict, may require extraordinary efforts or additional costs to implement and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we may be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements in material amounts.. <U+FEFF>. We and other financial institutions have been the subject of litigation, investigations and other proceedings which could result in legal liability and damage to our reputation.. <U+FEFF>. We and certain of our directors, officers and subsidiaries may be named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to our business and activities. Past, present and future litigation has included or could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. We are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental, law enforcement and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business. These matters could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, amendments and/or restatements of our Commission filings and/or financial statements, determinations of material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures or other relief. Like other financial institutions and companies, we are also subject to risk from employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us, as well as matters in which we are involved that are ultimately determined in our favor, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, cause significant reputational harm to our business, divert management attention from the operation of our business and/or result in additional litigation.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, in recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed \"lender liability.\" Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders. In the future, we could become subject to claims based on this or other evolving legal theories.. <U+FEFF>. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. <U+FEFF>. Securities issued may be senior to our common stock and may have a dilutive effect.. <U+FEFF>. Our common stock ranks junior to all of our existing and future indebtedness with respect to distributions and liquidation. In addition, future issuances of equity securities, including pursuant to outstanding options, could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders, including you, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The issuance of any additional shares of common or preferred stock could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, phantom shares, stock appreciation rights, options or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution.. <U+FEFF>. Holders of our shares of common stock do not have preemptive rights. Additionally, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets and the availability of those shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 25. Table of Contents. <U+FEFF>. Our ability to deliver and pay dividends depends primarily upon the results of operations of our subsidiary Bank, and we may not pay, or be permitted to pay, dividends in the future.. <U+FEFF>. We are a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our subsidiary Bank. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments on our common stock will depend primarily upon the receipt of dividends and other distributions from the Bank.. <U+FEFF>. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends or make other payments to us, as well as our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, is limited by the Bank's obligation to maintain sufficient capital and by other general regulatory restrictions on its dividends, which have tightened since the financial crisis. The Federal Reserve has stated that bank holding companies should not pay dividends from sources other than current earnings. If these requirements are not satisfied, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock.. <U+FEFF>. We may also decide to limit the payment of dividends even when we have the legal ability to pay them in order to retain earnings for use in our business, which could adversely affect the market value of our common stock. There can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends in the future.. <U+FEFF>. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended articles of incorporation and bylaws, Mississippi law, and our Shareholder Rights Plan could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult and may adversely affect share value.. <U+FEFF>. Our amended articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders) and for holders of our securities to receive any related takeover premium for their securities.. <U+FEFF>. We are also subject to certain provisions of state and federal law and our articles of incorporation that may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity, or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a bank holding company, including our shares. Banking agencies review the acquisition to determine if it will result in a change of control. The banking agencies have 60 days to act on the notice, and take into account several factors, including the resources of the acquirer and the antitrust effects of the acquisition. Additionally, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank. There are also Mississippi statutory provisions and provisions in our articles of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our articles of incorporation could result in our being less attractive to a potential acquirer and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. <U+FEFF>. Shares of our common stock are not insured deposits and may lose value.. <U+FEFF>. Shares of our common stock are not savings accounts, deposits or other obligations of any depository institution and are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other governmental agency or instrumentality, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal.. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. 26. Table of Contents"
