[1] "Item 1A.      Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Report and other documents we file with the SEC. The following risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material. Events or circumstances arising from one or more of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the value and price of our common stock could decline. The risks identified below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we may currently view as not material, may also adversely impact our financial condition, business operations and results of operations.. Risks Relating to our Business. Difficult business and economic conditions can adversely affect our industry and business. Our financial performance generally, and the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay the principal of outstanding loans and leases and the value of the collateral securing those loans and leases, is highly dependent upon the business and economic conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the United States as a whole. While the U.S. economy has been expanding, there can be no assurance that it will continue to grow. In addition, rising geopolitical risks nationally and abroad may adversely impact the economy and financial markets in the United States. These economic pressures may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with deterioration in economic conditions:. • We face increased regulation of our industry, including changes by Congress or federal regulatory agencies to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regime and heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements that may be adopted in the future. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and leases. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process.. 16. • If economic conditions deteriorate, it may exacerbate the following consequences:. <U+25E6> problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. <U+25E6> demand for our products and services may decline;. <U+25E6> low cost or noninterest-bearing deposits may decrease; and. <U+25E6> collateral for loans and leases made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value.. Our banking operations are concentrated primarily in California, Texas and Illinois. Adverse economic conditions in these regions in particular could impair borrowers' ability to repay their loans and leases, decrease the level and duration of deposits by customers, and erode the value of loan and lease collateral. These conditions can potentially cause the general decline in real estate sales and prices in many markets across the United States, the recurrence of an economic recession, and higher rates of unemployment. These conditions could increase the amount of our non-performing assets and have an adverse effect on our efforts to collect our non-performing loans and leases or otherwise liquidate our non-performing assets (including other real estate owned) on terms favorable to us, if at all, and could also cause a decline in demand for our products and services, or a lack of growth or a decrease in deposits, any of which may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital, and hurt our business.. Our Southern California concentration means economic conditions in Southern California could adversely affect our operations. Though the Bank's operations have expanded outside of our original Southern California focus, the majority of our loan and deposit concentration is still primarily in Los Angeles County and Orange County in Southern California. Because of this geographic concentration, our results depend largely upon economic conditions in these areas. A deterioration in the economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in the Bank's market areas, or a significant natural or man-made disaster in these market areas, could have a material adverse effect on the quality of the Bank's loan and lease portfolio, the demand for its products and services and on its overall financial condition and results of operations.. Our concentrations of loans and leases in certain industries could have adverse effects on credit quality. As of December 31, 2017, the Bank's loan and lease portfolio included loans to: (i) lessors of non-residential buildings of $1.23 billion, or 28.6 percent of total loans and leases; and (ii) borrowers in the hospitality industry of $681 million, or 15.8 percent of total gross loans and leases. Because of these concentrations of loans in specific industries, a deterioration within these industries, could affect the ability of borrowers, guarantors and related parties to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and leases, which could have material and adverse consequences for the Bank.. Our focus on lending to small to mid-sized community-based businesses may increase our credit risk. Most of our commercial business and commercial real estate loans are made to small or middle market businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. If general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate negatively impact this important customer sector, our results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made by us in recent years and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. Furthermore, the deterioration of our borrowers' businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans and leases with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make loans secured by real property does not ensure that the value of the real property collateral will be sufficient to repay our loans. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made and requires the exercise of a considerable degree of judgment and adherence to professional standards. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon sale or foreclosure of the property, whether due to declines in property values after the date of the original appraisal or defective preparation, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property and may suffer losses.. If a significant number of borrowers, guarantors or related parties fail to perform as required by the terms of their loans and leases, we could sustain losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors or related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and leases. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan and lease losses, that management believe are appropriate to limit this risk by assessing the likelihood of non-performance, tracking loan and lease performance and diversifying our credit portfolio.. 17. Our loan and lease portfolio is predominantly secured by real estate and thus we have a higher degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets, especially a downturn in the Southern California real estate market. A downturn in the real estate markets could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies, and acts of nature, such as earthquakes and national disasters particular to California. Predominantly all of our real estate collateral is located in California. If real estate values decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer material losses on defaulted loans.. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and leases. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan and lease defaults and non-performance. The allowance is also increased for new loan and lease growth. While we believe that our allowance for loan and lease losses is adequate to cover inherent losses, we cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan and lease losses further or that our regulators will not require us to increase this allowance.. Our earnings are affected by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the level of loans and leases, deposits and investments, the credit profile of existing loans and leases, the rates received on loans and leases, and securities, and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. Significant fluctuations in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While recent increases in interest rates and the prevailing view that interest rates will rise further in the near future will provide a boost to bank earnings, it will also provide an opportunity for depositors to seek higher yielding deposit products, negatively impacting the spread income generated on assets over the cost of deposits, and may also decrease the demand for loans.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, including brokered deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and leases and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us.. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole.. We are subject to government regulations that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely affect our operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation. Changes in existing laws, or repeals of existing laws, may cause our results to differ materially from historical and projected performance. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve, significantly affects credit conditions, and a material change in these conditions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Additional requirements imposed by Dodd-Frank and other regulations could adversely affect us. Dodd-Frank and related regulations subject us and other financial institutions to more restrictions, oversight, reporting obligations and costs. In addition, this increased regulation of the financial services industry restricts the ability of institutions within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including aspects such as compensation, interest rates, new and. 18. inconsistent consumer protection regulations and mortgage regulation, among others. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied.. Current and future legal and regulatory requirements, restrictions and regulations, including those imposed under Dodd-Frank, may adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations, may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes required by the legislation and accompanying rules, and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees.. Additional requirements imposed by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could adversely affect us. Dodd-Frank created the CFPB, which is tasked with establishing and implementing rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. The CFPB has rulemaking authority over many of the statutes governing products and services offered to bank consumers. In addition, Dodd-Frank permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and regulations that are more stringent than those regulations promulgated by the CFPB, and state attorneys general are permitted to enforce consumer protection rules adopted by the CFPB against state-chartered institutions, including the Bank. To the extent the CFPB has authority over us, if we fail to comply with the rules and regulations promulgated by the CFPB, we may be subject to adverse enforcement actions, fines or penalties against us.. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The FDIC's restoration plan and future changes to the assessment rate could adversely affect our earnings. As required by Dodd-Frank, the FDIC adopted a new DIF restoration plan which became effective on January 1, 2011. Among other things, the plan (i) raised the minimum designated reserve ratio, which the FDIC is required to set each year, to 1.35 percent and removed the upper limit on the designated reserve ratio and consequently on the size of the fund, and (ii) requires that the fund reserve ratio reach 1.35 percent by September 30, 2020. The FDIA continues to require that the FDIC's Board of Directors consider the appropriate level for the designated reserve ratio annually and, if changing the designated reserve ratio, engage in notice-and-comment rulemaking before the beginning of the calendar year.. The amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance is generally beyond our control. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, if our risk classification changes, or the method for calculating premiums change, this may impact assessment rates which may have a material and adverse effect on our earnings and could have a material adverse effect on the value of, or market for, our common stock.. The impact of the Basel III capital standards imposed enhanced capital adequacy standards on us. In June 2013, federal banking regulators jointly issued the New Capital Rules, which were based upon Basel III. The rules impose new capital requirements and implement Section 171 of Dodd-Frank. The new rules became effective for the Company and Bank on January 1, 2015, and are subject to a multi-year phase in. Among other things, the rules require that we maintain a Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6%, a total capital ratio of 8%, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. In addition, we have to maintain an additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of total risk weighted assets or be subject to limitations on dividends and other capital distributions, as well as limiting discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. When the buffer is fully-phased in, the minimum capital plus capital conservation buffer ratio will be Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and total capital ratio of 10.5%. The rules also restrict grandfathered trust preferred securities from comprising more than 25% of Tier 1 capital. If an institution grows above $15 billion as a result of an acquisition, or organically grows above $15 billion and then makes an acquisition, the combined trust preferred issuances would be eliminated from Tier 1 capital. The application of more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such. 19. requirements. In addition, more stringent capital requirements could require us to raise additional capital on terms which may not be favorable.. Competition may adversely affect our performance. The banking and financial services businesses in our market areas are highly competitive. We face competition in attracting deposits, making loans and leases, and attracting and retaining employees, particularly in the Korean-American community. The increasingly competitive environment is a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, new competitors in the market, and the pace of consolidation among financial services providers. Our results in the future may be materially and adversely impacted depending upon the nature and level of competition.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. As a financial institution, we depend on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. As our customer base and locations have expanded throughout the U.S. and as customer, public, legislative and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns.. Our business, financial, accounting, data processing systems or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; degradation or loss of public internet domain; climate change related impacts and natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornados, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts, building emergencies such as water leakage, fires and structural issues, and cyber attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers.. The occurrence of breaches or failures of our information security controls or cybersecurity-related incidents could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a financial institution, we are susceptible to information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation, or damage to our reputation. Information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us or our clients, denial or degradation of service attacks, and malware or other cyber-attacks.. Our business relies on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct its operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smart-phones, tablet PC's, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we have strong information security procedures and controls, our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers' devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of Bank's or our customers' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt Bank's or its customers' or other third parties' business operations.. To date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, but there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our plans to continue to enhance our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, and our expanded geographic footprint. There continues to be a rise in security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector. For example, financial institutions continue to be the target of various evolving and adaptive cyber attacks, including malware, ransomware and denial-of-service, as part of an effort to disrupt the operations. 20. of financial institutions, potentially test their cybersecurity capabilities, or obtain confidential, proprietary or other information. Consistent with industry trends, we have also experienced an increase in attempted security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents in recent periods.  Moreover, in recent periods, several large corporations, including financial institutions and retail companies, have suffered major data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. Some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which increase their risks of identity theft, credit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us.  As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and systems designed to protect our networks, computers, software and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, financial losses, the inability of our customers to transact business with us, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. We rely on third party vendors and other service providers, which could expose us to additional risk. We face additional risk of failure in or breach of operational or security systems or infrastructure related to our reliance on third party vendors and other service providers.  Third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, particularly those that are cloud-based, could be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints.  We are subject to operational risks relating to such third parties' technology and information systems. The continued efficacy of our technology and information systems, related operational infrastructure and relationships with third party vendors in our ongoing operations is integral to our performance. Failure of any of these resources, including but not limited to operational or systems failures, interruptions of client service operations and ineffectiveness of or interruption in third party data processing or other vendor support, may cause material disruptions in our business, impairment of customer relations and exposure to liability for our customers, as well as action by bank regulatory authorities. In addition, a number of our vendors are large national entities, and their services could prove difficult to replace in a timely manner if a failure or other service interruption were to occur. Failures of certain vendors to provide contracted services could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and cause us to incur significant expense.. Fraudulent activity could damage our reputation, disrupt our businesses, increase our costs and cause losses.  As discussed above, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in damage to our reputation, financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation, or damage to our reputation. Such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud (counterfeit, forgery, etc.), electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts.  In recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity within the financial services industry, and, consistent with industry trends, we have also experienced an increase in attempted electronic fraudulent activity in recent periods.  The occurrence of fraudulent activity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Negative publicity could damage our reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative publicity or public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity or public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or perceived conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct.. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract key people who are qualified and have knowledge and experience in the banking industry in our markets and to retain those people to successfully implement our business objectives. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense, particularly for qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, our banking space. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. In addition, legislation and regulations which impose restrictions on executive compensation may make it more difficult for us to retain and recruit key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan and lease origination,. 21. finance, administrative, compliance, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and employees. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel or failure to attract or retain such employees could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and disclosures to stockholders, to prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports and disclosures or prevent fraud, our business may be adversely affected and our reputation and operating results would be harmed. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures or difficulties encountered in their implementation may also result in regulatory enforcement action against us, adversely affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.. Changes in accounting standards may affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes and their impacts on us can be hard to predict and may result in unexpected and materially adverse impacts on our reported financial condition and results of operations.. We are required to assess the recoverability of our deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis. Deferred tax assets are evaluated on a quarterly basis to determine if they are expected to be recoverable in the future. Our evaluation considers positive and negative evidence to assess whether it is more likely than not that a portion of the asset will not be realized. Future negative operating performance or other negative evidence may result in a valuation allowance being recorded against some or the entire amount.. Changes to tax regulations could negatively impact our earnings. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. In particular, although the passage of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 reduced the U.S. tax rate to 21% effective January 1, 2018, our future earnings could be negatively impacted by changes in tax legislation including changing tax rates and tax base such as limiting, phasing-out or eliminating deductions or tax credits, taxing certain excess income from intellectual property and changing other tax laws in the U.S.. We may become subject to regulatory restrictions in the event that our capital levels decline. We cannot provide assurance that our total risk-based capital ratio or other capital ratios will not decline in the future such that the Bank may be considered to be \"undercapitalized\" for regulatory purposes. If a state nonmember bank, like the Bank, is classified as undercapitalized, the bank is required to submit a capital restoration plan to the FDIC. Pursuant to the FDICIA, an undercapitalized bank is prohibited from increasing its assets, engaging in a new line of business, acquiring any interest in any company or insured depository institution, or opening or acquiring a new branch office, except under certain circumstances, including the acceptance by the FDIC of a capital restoration plan for the bank. Pursuant to Section 38 of the FDICIA and its regulations, the FDIC also has the discretion to impose certain other corrective actions.. If a bank is classified as significantly undercapitalized, the FDIC would be required to take one or more prompt corrective actions. These actions would include, among other things, requiring sales of new securities to bolster capital; improvements in management; limits on interest rates paid; prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; termination of certain risky activities and restrictions on compensation paid to executive officers. These actions may also be taken by the FDIC at any time on an undercapitalized bank if it determines those restrictions are necessary. If a bank is classified as critically undercapitalized, in addition to the foregoing restrictions, the FDICIA prohibits payment on any subordinated debt and requires the bank to be placed into conservatorship or receivership within 90 days, unless the FDIC determines that other action would better achieve the purposes of the FDICIA regarding prompt corrective action with respect to undercapitalized banks.. As we continue to expand outside our California markets, we may encounter additional risks that may adversely affect us. The CBI Acquisition gave the Bank a national footprint, whereas prior to the acquisition, we primarily provided services through our California branches. These expansion activities, together with any additional expansion activities we may undertake, may entail significant risks, including unfamiliarity with the characteristics and business dynamics of new markets, increased marketing and administrative expenses and operational difficulties arising from our efforts to attract business in new markets, manage operations in noncontiguous geographic markets, comply with local laws and regulations and effectively and consistently manage our non-California personnel and business. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our operations may be adversely affected.. 22. Changing conditions in South Korea could adversely affect our business. A substantial number of our customers have economic and cultural ties to South Korea and, as a result, we are likely to feel the effects of adverse economic and political conditions in South Korea. U.S. and global economic policies, political or political tension, and global economic conditions may adversely impact the South Korean economy.. Management closely monitors our exposure to the South Korean economy and, to date, we have not experienced any significant loss attributable to our exposure to South Korea. Nevertheless, our efforts to minimize exposure to downturns in the South Korean economy may not be successful in the future, and a significant downturn in the South Korean economy could possibly have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If economic conditions in South Korea change, we could experience an outflow of deposits by those of our customers with connections to South Korea and a significant decrease in deposits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to the risks of natural disasters. A significant portion of our operations is concentrated in Southern California. California is in an earthquake-prone region. A major earthquake may result in material loss to us. A significant percentage of our loans and leases are and will be secured by real estate. Many of our borrowers may suffer uninsured property damage, experience interruption of their businesses or lose their jobs after an earthquake. Those borrowers might not be able to repay their loans, and the collateral for such loans may decline significantly in value. Unlike a bank with a customer base that are more geographically diversified, we are vulnerable to greater losses if an earthquake, fire, flood or other natural catastrophe occurs in Southern California.. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The Bank could be restricted from paying dividends to us, its sole shareholder, and, thus, we would be restricted from paying dividends to our stockholders in the future. The primary source of our income from which we pay our obligations and distribute dividends to our stockholders is from the receipt of dividends from the Bank. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. As of January 1, 2018, the Bank had the ability to pay $97.5 million of dividends without the prior approval of the Commissioner of Business Oversight.. The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:. • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;. • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts;. • failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • actions by institutional stockholders;. • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors;. • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry;. • proposed or adopted legislative or regulatory changes or developments;. • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or. • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance.. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity-related securities, and other factors identified above in the section captioned \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\" A significant decline in our stock. 23. price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation and potential delisting from Nasdaq.. Your share ownership may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock in the future. Your share ownership may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock in the future. We may decide to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings for a number of reasons, including in response to regulatory or other requirements to meet our liquidity and capital needs, to finance our operations and business strategy or for other reasons. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities or instruments that are convertible into equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will further be reduced, the new equity securities may have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of our common stock, and the market of our common stock could decline.. In addition, we adopted the 2013 Equity Compensation Plan that provides for the granting of awards to our directors, executive officers and other employees. The plan provides awards of any options, stock appreciation right, restricted stock award, restricted stock unit award, share granted as a bonus or in lieu of another award, dividend equivalent, other stock-based award or performance award. As of December 31, 2017, 364,088 shares of our common stock were issuable under options granted in connection with our stock option plans. It is probable that the stock options will be exercised during their respective terms if the fair market value of our common stock exceeds the exercise price of the particular option. If the stock options are exercised, your share ownership will be diluted.. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2017, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 62,500,000 shares of common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation does not provide for preemptive rights to the holders of our common stock. Any authorized but unissued shares are available for issuance by our Board of Directors. As a result, if we issue additional shares of common stock to raise additional capital or for other corporate purposes, you may be unable to maintain your pro rata ownership in the Company.. Future sales of common stock by existing stockholders may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by existing stockholders, or the perception that large sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or limit our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities.. Anti-takeover provisions and state and federal law may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Various provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions provide for, among other things, supermajority voting approval for certain actions, limitation on large stockholders taking certain actions and authorization to issue \"blank check\" preferred stock by action of the Board of Directors acting alone without obtaining stockholder approval. In addition, the BHCA, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with applicable federal regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either Federal Reserve approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to Federal Reserve and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring \"control\" of a state nonmember bank, such as the Bank. Additional prior approvals from other federal or state bank regulators may also be necessary depending upon the particular circumstances. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock.. 24. Risks Relating to Acquisitions. We may experience adverse effects from acquisitions. We have acquired other banking companies in the past, including the acquisition of an equipment leasing business in the fourth quarter of 2016 and the CBI Acquisition in 2014, and will consider additional acquisitions as opportunities arise. If we do not adequately address the financial and operational risks associated with acquisitions of other companies, we may incur material unexpected costs and disruption of our business. Risks involved in acquisitions of other companies, include:. • the risk of failure to adequately evaluate the asset quality of the acquired company;. • difficulty in assimilating and integrating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired company;. • diversion of management's attention from other important business activities;. • difficulty in maintaining good relations with the loan and deposit customers of the acquired company;. • inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, especially considering geographic diversification;. • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; and. • amortization of expenses related to acquired intangible assets that have finite lives."
