[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the following risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or liquidity and could also impact the trading price of our securities. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under \"Forward-Looking Statements\" above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The following risk factors have been organized by category for ease of use, however many of the risks may have impacts in more than one category. The occurrence of certain of them may, in turn, cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others.  Such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. As noted below under \"Risks Relating to the Pending Sale of Our Life and Annuity Business,\" the assets and liabilities of the life and annuity run-off business, consisting primarily of the operations of Hartford Life Insurance Company and Hartford Life and Annuity Insurance Company (formerly known as Talcott Resolution), have been accounted for as held for sale as of December 31, 2017, with the operating results of that business included in discontinued operations for all periods presented. The Company expects the sale to close by June 30, 2018, subject to regulatory approval and other closing conditions.  Apart from interest expense on debt issued and outstanding of Hartford Life, Inc., the holding company of the life and annuity run-off business, and certain tax benefits to be retained by The Hartford, the results from the discontinued operations inure to the buyer. Accordingly, any earnings or losses of the life and annuity run-off business up until closing will not change the Company's results.  If the sale of the business does not close, we would retain the risks associated with the life and annuity run-off business.. Risks Relating to Economic, Political and Global Market Conditions. Unfavorable economic, political and global market conditions may adversely impact our business and results of operations.. The Company's investment portfolio and insurance liabilities are sensitive to changes in economic, political and  global capital market conditions, such as the effect of a weak economy and changes in credit spreads, equity prices, interest rates and   inflation. Weak economic conditions, such as high unemployment, low labor force participation, lower family income, a weak real estate market, lower business investment and lower consumer spending may adversely affect the demand for insurance and financial products and lower the Company's profitability in some cases. In addition, the Company's investment portfolio includes limited partnerships and other alternative investments for which. changes in value are reported in earnings.  These investments may be adversely impacted by political turmoil and economic volatility, including real estate market deterioration, which could impact our net investment returns and result in an adverse impact on operating results.. Below are several key factors impacted by changes in economic, political, and global market conditions and their potential effect on the Company's business and results of operation:. • Credit Spread Risk- Credit spread exposure is reflected in the market prices of fixed income instruments where lower rated securities generally trade at a higher credit spread.  If issuer credit spreads increase or widen, the market value of our investment portfolio may decline.  If the credit spread widening is significant and occurs over an extended period of time, the Company may recognize other-than-temporary impairments, resulting in decreased earnings. If credit spreads tighten, significantly, the Company's net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities may be reduced. In addition, the value of credit derivatives under which the Company assumes exposure or purchases protection are impacted by changes in credit spreads, with losses occurring when credit spreads widen for assumed exposure or, when credit spreads tighten if credit protection has been purchased.. • Equity Markets Risk -  A decline in equity markets may result in unrealized capital losses on investments in equity securities recorded against net income and lower earnings from Mutual Funds where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management.  Equity markets are unpredictable. In early 2018, the equity markets were more volatile than in the months prior, which could be indicative of a greater risk of a decline.. • Interest Rate Risk - Global economic conditions may result in the persistence of a low interest rate environment which would continue to pressure our net investment income and could result in lower margins on certain products.. New and renewal business for our property and casualty and group benefits products is priced based on prevailing interest rates. As interest rates decline, in order to achieve the same economic return, we would have to increase product prices to offset the lower anticipated investment income earned on invested premiums. Conversely, as interest rates rise, pricing targets will tend to decrease to reflect higher anticipated investment income. Our ability to effectively react to such changes in interest rates may affect our competitiveness in the marketplace, and in turn, could reduce written premium and earnings.. In addition, due to the long-term nature of the liabilities within our Group Benefits operations, particularly for long-term disability, declines in interest rates over an extended period of time would result in our having to reinvest at lower yields. On the other hand, a rise in interest rates, in the absence of other countervailing changes, would reduce the market value of our investment portfolio.  A decline in market value of invested assets due to an increase in interest rates could also limit our ability to realize tax benefits from previously recognized capital losses.. 17"
