[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. This report, including the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (\"MD&A\"), contains \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All such statements are qualified by this cautionary note, which is provided pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 (the \"1933 Act\") and Section 21E of the 1934 Act. Forward-looking statements may also be included in our other public filings, press releases, our website, and oral and written presentations by management. Statements other than historical facts are forward-looking and may be identified by words such as \"may,\" \"will,\" \"expects,\" \"believes,\" \"anticipates,\" \"plans,\" \"estimates,\" \"seeks,\" \"could,\" \"intends,\" or words of similar meaning. Examples include statements regarding (1) our strategies and initiatives, (2) adjustments to our cost structure and other actions designed to respond to market conditions and improve our performance, and the anticipated effectiveness and expenses associated with these actions, (3) our financial outlook for revenues, earnings per share, operating income, expense related to equity-based compensation, capital resources and other financial items, (4) expectations for our businesses and for the industries in which we operate, including the impact of economic conditions of the markets we serve on the marketing expenditures and activities of our clients and prospects, (5) competitive factors, (6) acquisition and development plans, (7) our stock repurchase program, (8) expectations regarding legal proceedings and other contingent liabilities, (9) the impact of recent tax reform legislation on our results of operations, and (10) other statements regarding future events, conditions, or outcomes.. These forward-looking statements are based on current information, expectations, and estimates and involve risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors that are difficult to predict and that could cause actual results to vary materially from what is expressed in or indicated by the forward-looking statements. In that event, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity could be materially adversely affected, and investors in our securities could lose part or all of their investments. Some of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors can be found in our filings with the SEC, including the factors discussed below in this Item 1A, \"Risk Factors\", and any updates thereto in our Forms 10-Q. The forward-looking statements included in this report and those included in our other public filings, press releases, our website, and oral and written presentations by management are made only as of the respective dates thereof, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement in this report or in other documents, our website, or oral statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future, except as required by law.. In addition to the information set forth elsewhere in this report, including in the MD&A section, the factors described below should be considered carefully in making any investment decisions with respect to our securities.. Most of our client engagements are cancelable on short notice.. The marketing services we offer, and in particular for direct mail and contact center services, are generally terminable upon short notice by our clients, even if the term of the agreement (and the expected duration of services) is several or many years. Many of our customer agreements do not have minimum volume or revenue requirements, so clients may (and do) vary their actual orders from us over time based on their own business needs, their satisfaction with the quality and pricing of our services, and a variety of other competitive factors. In addition, the timing of particular jobs or types of jobs at particular times of year (such as mail programs supporting the holiday shopping season, or contact center programs supporting a specific event) may cause significant fluctuations in the operating results of our operations in any given quarter. We depend to some extent on sales to certain industries, such as the consumer retail industries, technology, and financial services. To the extent these industries experience downturns, the results of our operations may be adversely affected.. A large portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of clients, with concentration in the consumer retail industry. The loss of significant work from one or more of our clients could adversely affect our business.. Our ten largest clients collectively represented 43.2% of our revenues for 2017. Furthermore, traditional consumer retail (which is experiencing significant business model and financial challenges) represented 24.9% of our 2017 revenues. While we typically have multiple projects with our largest customers which would not all terminate at the same time, the loss of one or more of the projects or contracts with one of our largest clients could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition if the lost revenues were not replaced with profitable revenues from that client or other clients.. 8. Table of Contents. We rely on business partners as an essential element of our go-to-market strategy, and we depend on one business partner, which is also a significant equity holder, for a large number of critical services.. We have determined that for some services, and most technology, we are best served by partnering with other companies, engaging them as vendors either on a standing or as-needed basis. We believe this approach reduces the investment needed to access these services and technologies for our clients, and provides greater flexibility in how we structure solutions for clients and adapt to market changes. However, because we do not own or control the service or technology partners, we are subject to the potential failure of those partners financially or commercially. We may not be able to anticipate any such problems, and failure or weakness of one or more of our key business partners could have a material effect on our ability to deliver services to our clients, and in turn harm our financial performance. Furthermore, our business partners may have different or conflicting interests, and although we seek to negotiate appropriate commercial terms, we may be unable to secure or enforce those terms in order to protect our client and employee relationships. Should our partners undermine our client or employee relations, our financial performance will be harmed.. In particular, Wipro, LLC provides a wide array of services for us and for our clients, including database and software development, database support and analytics, IT infrastructure support and digital campaign management. Because of the nature of these services, it would be difficult and disruptive to our business to replace Wipro if doing so was necessary or desirable. Wipro is our largest equity holder, having recently invested $9.9 million in us through the purchase of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Subject to certain conditions, Wipro, LLC is entitles to appoint a non-voting board observer or a board member to our board of directors.. We face significant competition for individual projects, entire client relationships and advertising dollars in general.. Our business faces significant competition within each of our vertical markets and for all of our offerings. We offer our marketing services within a dynamic business environment characterized by rapid technological change, high turnover of client personnel who make buying decisions, client consolidations, changing client needs and preferences, continual development of competing products and services, and an evolving competitive landscape. This competition comes from numerous local, national, and international direct marketing and advertising companies, and client internal resources, against whom we compete for individual projects, entire client relationships, and marketing expenditures by clients and prospective clients. We also compete against internet (social, mobile, web-based, and email), print, broadcast, and other forms of advertising for marketing and advertising dollars in general. In addition, our ability to attract new clients and to retain existing clients may, in some cases, be limited by clients' policies on or perceptions of conflicts of interest which may prevent us from performing similar services for competitors. Some of our clients have also sought to reduce the number of marketing vendors or use third-party procurement organizations, all of which increases pricing pressure, and may disadvantage us relative to our competitors. Our failure to improve our current processes or to develop new products and services could result in the loss of our clients to current or future competitors. In addition, failure to gain market acceptance of new products and services could adversely affect our growth and financial condition.. Current and future competitors may have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do, and they may sell competing services at lower prices or at lower profit margins, resulting in pressures on our prices and margins.. The sizes of our competitors vary widely across vertical markets and service lines. Therefore, some of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, or other resources than we do in any one or more of our market segments, or overall. As a result, our competitors may be in a position to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies, methodologies, and changes in customer requirements, or may devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale, and support of products and services. Moreover, new competitors or alliances among our competitors may emerge and potentially reduce our market share, revenue, or margins. Some of our competitors also may choose to sell products or services competitive to ours at lower prices by accepting lower margins and profitability, or may be able to sell products or services competitive to ours at lower prices given proprietary ownership of data, technical superiority, a broader or deeper product or experience set, or economies of scale. Price reductions or pricing pressure by our competitors could negatively impact our margins and results of operations, and could also harm our ability to obtain new customers on favorable terms. Competitive pricing pressures tend to increase in difficult or uncertain economic environments, due to reduced marketing expenditures of many of our clients and prospects, and the resulting impact on the competitive business environment for marketing service providers such as our company.. We must maintain technological competitiveness, continually improve our processes, and develop and introduce new services in a timely and cost-effective manner.. We believe that our success depends on, among other things, maintaining technological competitiveness in our products, processing functionality, and software systems and services. Technology changes rapidly as makers of computer hardware, network systems, programming tools, computer and data architectures, operating systems, database technology, and mobile devices continually improve their offerings. Advances in information technology may result in changing client preferences for products and product. 9. Table of Contents. delivery channels in our industry. The increasingly sophisticated requirements of our clients require us to continually improve our processes and provide new products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner (whether through development, license, or acquisition). For example, in 2017 we invested in a new database offering and marketing data platform. Our direct mail operations are increasingly pressured by larger-scale competitors who have adopted technologies allowing them to more effectively and efficiently customize mailed marketing materials. We may be unable to successfully identify, develop, and bring new and enhanced services and products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner, such services and products may not be commercially successful, and services, products, and technologies developed by others may render our services and products noncompetitive or obsolete.. Our success depends on our ability to consistently and effectively deliver our services to our clients.. Our success depends on our ability to effectively and consistently staff and execute client engagements within the agreed upon time frame and budget. Depending on the needs of our clients, our engagements may require customization, integration, and coordination of a number of complex product and service offerings and execution across many facilities. Moreover, in some of our engagements, we rely on subcontractors and other third parties to provide some of the services to our clients, and we cannot guarantee that these third parties will effectively deliver their services or that we will have adequate recourse against these third parties in the event they fail to effectively deliver their services. Other contingencies and events outside of our control may also impact our ability to provide our products and services. Our failure to effectively and timely staff, coordinate, and execute our client engagements may adversely impact existing client relationships, the amount or timing of payments from our clients, our reputation in the marketplace and ability to secure additional business and our resulting financial performance. In addition, our contractual arrangements with our clients and other customers may not provide us with sufficient protections against claims for lost profits or other claims for damages.. We have recently experienced, and may experience in the future, reduced demand for our products and services due to the financial condition and marketing budgets of our clients and other factors that may impact the industry verticals that we serve.. Marketing budgets are largely discretionary in nature, and as a consequence are easier to reduce in the short-term than other expenses. Our customers have in the past, and may in the future, responded to their own financial constraints (whether caused by weak economic conditions, weak industry performance or client-specific issues) by reducing their marketing spending. Customers may also be slow to restore their marketing budgets to prior levels during a recovery, and may respond similarly to adverse economic conditions in the future. Our revenues are dependent on national, regional, and international economies and business conditions. A lasting economic recession or anemic recovery in the markets in which we operate could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position, or operating results. Similarly, industry or company-specific factors may negatively impact our clients and prospective clients, and in turn result in reduced demand for our products and services, client insolvencies, collection difficulties or bankruptcy preference actions related to payments received from our clients. We may also experience reduced demand as a result of consolidation of clients and prospective clients in the industry verticals that we serve.. We must effectively manage our costs to be successful. If we do not achieve our cost management objectives, our financial results could be adversely affected.. Our business plan and expectations for the future require that we effectively manage our cost structure, including our operating expenses and capital expenditures across our operations. To the extent that we do not accurately anticipate and effectively manage our costs as our business evolves, our financial results may be adversely affected.. Our financial performance and failure to timely file periodic reports with the SEC has harmed our commercial reputation and relationship with customers, vendors, and other commercial parties, and may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate employees.. Our declining financial performance and failure to timely file periodic reports with the SEC has caused customers and vendors to increase scrutiny on payment and performance terms in our agreements, which may impose additional costs (or result in reduced profitability) in our operations. Clients, vendors, and partners (and prospective clients, vendors, and partners) may also decline to do business with us due to their concerns regarding our financial condition. Additionally, due to our liquidity constraints, we may be unable to aggressively price our services to win work in competitive bid situations. These impediments to working with clients, vendors and partners may reduce both our overall revenues and profitability, and consequently the value of our common stock.. Likewise, our declining financial performance and failure to timely file periodic reports with the SEC has negatively affected employee morale and compensation. Due to financial constraints, we may have difficulty providing compensation that is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate employees, especially skilled professionals for whom sizeable bonus payouts are a key element of market-driven cash compensation. Furthermore, the decline in the price of our common stock has eroded the value of our equity-based. 10. Table of Contents. incentive programs. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate employees despite our financial performance and within the resource constraints, it will impair our ability to effectively serve our clients, which in turn is likely to reduce both our overall revenues and profitability, and consequently the value of our common stock.. Our inability to comply with the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange could result in our common stock being delisted, which could affect our common stock's market price and liquidity and reduce our ability to raise capital.. During 2017, we received several notices from the NYSE indicating that the average closing price of our common stock had fallen below $1.00 per share over a period of 30 consecutive trading days, which is the minimum average share price for continued listing on the NYSE under Rule 802.01C of the NYSE Listed Company Manual.  This compelled us to effect a 1-for-10 reverse stock split on January 31, 2018.. Although the NYSE has notified us that we have cured the average closing price requirement, other NYSE continued listing requirements include that we maintain an average market capitalization of over $50 million (measured over a consecutive 30 trading-day periods) when our stockholders' equity is less than $50 million, as it recently has been.  Our common stock could be delisted if we are not in compliance with this (or any other such) requirement and are unable to regain compliance during any applicable cure or grace period.  A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock and reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock.. Privacy, information security and other regulatory requirements may prevent or impair our ability to offer our products and services.. We are subject to and affected by numerous laws, regulations, and industry standards that regulate direct marketing activities, including those that address privacy, data protection, information security, and marketing communications. Please refer to the section above entitled \"Government Regulation\" for additional information regarding some of these regulations.. As a result of increasing public awareness and interest in privacy rights, data protection and access, information security, environmental protection, and other concerns, national and local governments and industry organizations regularly consider and adopt new laws, rules, regulations, and guidelines that restrict or regulate marketing communications, services, and products. Examples include data encryption standards, data breach notification requirements, registration/licensing requirements (often with fees), consumer choice, notice, and consent restrictions and penalties for infractions, among others. In addition, the new European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) will take effect in May 2018 and will apply to all of our products and services that provide service in Europe. The GDPR will include operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the European Union that are different than those currently in place in the European Union. For example, we may be required to implement measures to change or limit (by age, use or geography) our service offerings. We may also be required to obtain consent and/or offer new controls to existing and new users in Europe before processing data for certain aspects of our services. In addition, the GDPR will include significant penalties for non-compliance. We anticipate that additional restrictions and regulations will continue to be proposed and adopted in the future. The Philippines has also adopted the Data Privacy Act of 2012 (Republic Act 10173) which mirrors most important aspects of the GDPR, and is likely to have a similar effect on our operations in and involving the Philippines.. Our business may also be affected by the impact of these restrictions and regulations on our clients and their marketing activities. In addition, as we acquire new capabilities and deploy new technologies to execute our strategy, we may be exposed to additional types or layers of regulation. Current and future restrictions and regulations could increase compliance requirements and costs, and restrict or prevent the collection, management, aggregation, transfer, use or dissemination of information (especially with respect to personal information), or change the requirements therefore so as to require other changes to our business or that of our clients. Additional restrictions and regulations may limit or prohibit current practices regarding marketing communications and information quality solutions. For example, many states and countries have considered implementing \"do not contact\" legislation that could impact our business and the businesses of our clients and customers. In addition, continued public interest in privacy rights, data protection and access, and information security may result in the adoption of further industry guidelines that could impact our direct marketing activities and business practices.. We cannot predict the scope of any new laws, rules, regulations, or industry guidelines or how courts or agencies may interpret current ones. Additionally, enforcement priorities by governmental authorities will change over time, which may impact our business. Understanding the laws, rules, regulations, and guidelines applicable to specific client multichannel engagements and across many jurisdictions poses a significant challenge, as such laws, rules, regulations, and guidelines are often inconsistent or conflicting, and are sometimes at odds with client objectives. Our failure to properly comply with these regulatory requirements and client needs may materially and adversely affect our business. General compliance with privacy, data protection, and information security obligations is costly and time-consuming, and we may encounter difficulties, delays, or significant expenses in connection with our compliance, or because of our clients' need to comply. We may be exposed to significant penalties, liabilities, reputational. 11. Table of Contents. harm, and loss of business in the event that we fail to comply. We could suffer a material adverse impact on our business due to the enactment or enforcement of legislation or industry regulations affecting us and/or our clients, the issuance of judicial or governmental interpretations, changed enforcement priorities of governmental agencies, or a change in behavior arising from public concern over privacy, data protection, and information security issues.. Consumer perceptions regarding the privacy and security of their data may prevent or impair our ability to offer our products and services.. Various local, national, and international regulations, as well as industry standards, give consumers varying degrees of control as to how certain data regarding them is collected, used, and shared for marketing purposes. If, due to privacy, security, or other concerns, consumers exercise their ability to prevent or limit such data collection, use, or sharing, it may impair our ability to provide marketing to those consumers and limit our clients' demand for our services. Additionally, privacy and security concerns may limit consumers' willingness to voluntarily provide data to our customers or marketing companies. Some of our services depend on voluntarily provided data and therefore may be impaired without such data.. If we do not prevent security breaches and other interruptions to our infrastructure, we may be exposed to lawsuits, lose customers, suffer harm to our reputation, and incur additional costs.. The services we offer involve the transmission of large amounts of sensitive and proprietary information over public communications networks, as well as the processing and storage of confidential customer information. Unauthorized access, remnant data exposure, computer viruses, denial of service attacks, accidents, employee error or malfeasance, \"social engineering\" and \"phishing\" attacks, intentional misconduct by computer \"hackers\" and other disruptions can occur, and infrastructure gaps, hardware and software vulnerabilities, inadequate or missing security controls, and exposed or unprotected customer data can exist that (i) interfere with the delivery of services to our customers, (ii) impede our customers' ability to do business, or (iii) compromise the security of systems and data, which exposes information to unauthorized third parties. We are a target of cyber-attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis. Although we maintain insurance which may respond to cover some types of damages incurred by damage to, breaches of, or problems with, our information and telecommunications systems, such insurance is limited and expensive, and may not respond or be sufficient to offset the costs of such damages, and therefore such damages may materially harm our business.. Our reputation and business results may be adversely impacted if we, or subcontractors upon whom we rely, do not effectively protect sensitive personal information of our clients and our clients' customers.. Current privacy and data security laws and industry standards impact the manner in which we capture, handle, analyze, and disseminate customer and prospect data as part of our client engagements. In many instances, our client contracts also mandate privacy and security practices. If we fail to effectively protect and control information, especially sensitive personal information (such as personal health information, social security numbers, or credit card numbers) of our clients and their customers or prospects in accordance with these requirements, we may incur significant expense, suffer reputational harm, and loss of business, and, in certain cases, be subjected to regulatory or governmental sanctions or litigation. These risks may be increased due to our reliance on subcontractors and other third parties in providing a portion of our overall services in certain engagements. We cannot guarantee that these third parties will effectively protect and handle sensitive personal information or other confidential information, or that we will have adequate recourse against these third parties in that event.. If our facilities are damaged, or if we are unable to access and use our facilities, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected.. Our operations rely on the ability of our employees to work at specially-equipped facilities to perform services for our clients. Although we have some excess capacity and redundancy, we do not have sufficient excess capacity or redundancy (in equipment, facilities, or personnel) to maintain service and operational levels for extended periods if we are unable to use one of our major facilities. Should we lose access to a facility for any reason, our service levels are likely to decline or be suspended, clients would go without service or secure replacement services from a competitor. As consequence of such an event, we would suffer a reduction in revenues and harm to (and loss of) client relationships.. 12. Table of Contents. Significant system disruptions, loss of data center capacity or interruption of telecommunication links could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our business is heavily dependent upon data centers and telecommunications infrastructures, which are essential to both our call center services and our database services (which require that we efficiently and effectively create, access, manipulate, and maintain large and complex databases). In addition to the third-party data centers we use, we also operate several data centers to support both our own and our clients' needs in this regard, as well as those of some of our clients. Our ability to protect our operations against damage or interruption from fire, flood, tornadoes, power loss, telecommunications or equipment failure, or other disasters and events beyond our control is critical to our continued success. Likewise, as we increase our use of third-party data centers, it is critical that the vendors providing that service adequately protect their data centers from the same risks. Our services are very dependent on links to telecommunication providers. We believe we have taken reasonable precautions to protect our data centers and telecommunication links from events that could interrupt our operations. Any damage to the data centers we use or any failure of our telecommunications links could materially adversely affect our ability to continue services to our clients, which could result in loss of revenues, profitability and client confidence, and may adversely impact our ability to attract new clients and force us to expend significant company resources to repair the damage.. We may need to obtain additional funding to continue as a going concern; if we are unable to meet our needs for additional funding in the future, we will be required to limit, scale back, or cease operations.. Our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 have been prepared assuming we will continue to operate as a going concern. Because we continue to experience net operating losses, our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to successfully raise sufficient additional capital as needed, through future financings or other strategic arrangements. Additional funds may not be available when needed, or if available, we may not be able to obtain such funds on terms acceptable to us. If adequate funds are unavailable when needed, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. We may be required to scale down or sell certain businesses, or cease operations.. If our new leaders are unsuccessful, or if we continue to lose key management and are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer.. Over the past three years we have replaced many of our leaders (including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Marketing Officer, and Chief Financial Officer) and we have eliminated or consolidated several leadership positions (including Chief Operating Officer, Chief Technology Officer, and Executive Vice President of Sales), resulting in a much smaller leadership team. If our new leaders fail in their new and additional roles and responsibilities (and more generally if we are unable to attract new leaders with the necessary skills to manage our business) our business and its operating results may suffer. Further, our prospects depend in large part upon our ability to attract, train, and retain experienced technical, client services, sales, consulting, marketing, and management personnel. While the demand for personnel is dependent on employment levels, competitive factors, and general economic conditions, our recent business performance may diminish our attractiveness as an employer. The loss or prolonged absence of the services of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, or operating results.. We could fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights and may face claims for intellectual property infringement.. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on the protection of our technology, products, services, and brands through intellectual property right protections, including copyrights, database rights, trade secrets, trademarks and domain name registrations, and enforcement procedures. The extent to which such rights can be protected and enforced varies by jurisdiction, and capabilities we procure through acquisitions may have less protection than would be desirable for the use or scale we intend or need. Litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights has become far more common and expensive in recent years, and we face the risk of additional litigation relating to our use or future use of intellectual property rights of third parties.. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information and technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and unauthorized use of our intellectual property may occur. We cannot be certain that trademark registrations will be issued, nor can we be certain that any issued trademark registrations will give us adequate protection from competing products. For example, others may develop competing technologies or databases on their own. Moreover, there is no assurance that our confidentiality agreements with our employees or third parties will be sufficient to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information.. Third-party infringement claims and any related litigation against us could subject us to liability for damages, significantly increase our costs, restrict us from using and providing our technologies, products or services or operating our business generally, or require changes to be made to our technologies, products, and services. We may also be subject to such infringement claims against us by third parties and may incur substantial costs and devote significant management resources in responding to such claims, as. 13. Table of Contents. we have in the recent past. We have been, and continue to be, obligated under some agreements to indemnify our clients as a result of claims that we infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. These costs and distractions could cause our business to suffer. In addition, if any party asserts an infringement claim, we may need to obtain licenses to the disputed intellectual property. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or that we will be able to obtain any licenses at all. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights may have an adverse effect on our ability to provide our products and services.. Breaches of security, or the perception that e-commerce is not secure, could severely harm our business and reputation.. Business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Some of our products and services are accessed through or are otherwise dependent on the internet. Security breaches in connection with the delivery of our products and services, or well-publicized security breaches that may affect us or our industry (such as database intrusion) could be severely detrimental to our business, operating results, and financial condition. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, cryptography, or other fields will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the information systems that deliver our products, services, and proprietary database information.. Data suppliers could withdraw data that we rely on for our products and services.. We purchase or license much of the data we use for ourselves and for our clients. There could be a material adverse impact on our business if owners of the data we use were to curtail access to the data or materially restrict the authorized uses of their data. Data providers could withdraw their data if there is a competitive reason to do so, if there is pressure from the consumer community or if additional regulations are adopted restricting the use of the data. We also rely upon data from other external sources to maintain our proprietary and non-proprietary databases, including data received from customers and various government and public record sources. If a substantial number of data providers or other key data sources were to withdraw or restrict their data, if we were to lose access to data due to government regulation, or if the collection of data becomes uneconomical, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially and adversely affected, which could result in decreased revenues, net income, and earnings per share.. We may be unable to make dispositions of assets on favorable terms, or at all.. In 2018, we sold our 3Q Digital business (which we purchased in 2015 for $30 million in cash plus an earn-out of up to $35 million) for $5 million in cash and assignment of the earn-out obligation. In 2016 we sold our Trillium business resulting in a pre-tax loss of $44.5 million. In 2015 we sold our B2B research business resulting in a pre-tax loss of $9.5 million. In the future, we may determine to divest certain assets or businesses consistent with our corporate strategy. The price we obtain for such assets or businesses will be driven by performance of those businesses and the current market demand for such assets, and we may not be able to realize a profit upon sale. If we are unable to make dispositions in a timely manner or at profitable price, our business, net income, and earnings per share could be materially and adversely affected.. We are vulnerable to increases in postal rates and disruptions in postal services.. Our services depend on the USPS and other commercial delivery services to deliver products. Standard postage rates have increased in recent years (most recently in January 2018) and may continue to do so at frequent and unpredictable intervals. Postage rates influence the demand for our services even though the cost of mailings is typically borne by our clients (and is not directly reflected in our revenues or expenses) because clients tend to reduce other elements of marketing spending to offset increased postage costs. Accordingly, future postal increases or disruptions in the operations of the USPS may have an adverse impact on us.. In addition, the USPS has had significant financial and operational challenges recently. In reaction, the USPS has proposed many changes in its services, such as delivery frequency and facility access. These changes, together with others that may be adopted, individually or in combination with other market factors, could materially and negatively affect our costs and ability to meet our clients' expectations.. We are vulnerable to increases in paper prices.. Prices of print materials are subject to fluctuations. Increased paper costs could cause our customers to reduce spending on other marketing programs, or to shift to formats, sizes, or media which may be less profitable for us, in each case potentially materially affecting our revenues and profits.. 14. Table of Contents. We could face additional income tax obligations based on tax reform.. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Act\") was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The new law made numerous changes to federal corporate tax law that we expect will significantly affect our effective tax rate in future periods. The changes included in the Tax Reform Act are broad and complex. The final transition impacts of the Tax Reform Act may differ from our current estimates, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Reform Act, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Tax Reform Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Reform Act, or any updates or changes to estimates that we have utilized to calculate the transition impacts.. Our indebtedness may adversely impact our ability to react to changes in our business or changes in general economic conditions.. On April 17, 2017, we entered into a credit agreement with Texas Capital Bank, N.A. The agreement consists of a two-year $20.0 million credit facility, which we amended on January 9, 2018 to increase the availability under the revolving credit facility from $22.0 million and extended the term of the credit facility by one year to April 17, 2020. See Note C, Long-Term Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future and the terms of future arrangements may be less favorable to the company than our previous or current facilities. Our ability to incur indebtedness is also impacted by the the terms of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, which limits out indebtedness to the greater of $40.0 million or four times our trailing 12 month EBITDA (measured at the time such indebtedness is incurred). Any failure to obtain new financing arrangements on favorable terms could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity position.. The amount of our indebtedness and the terms under which we borrow money under any future credit facilities or other agreements could have significant consequences for our business. Borrowings may include covenants requiring that we maintain certain financial measures and ratios. Covenant and ratio requirements may limit the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations and capital needs. A failure to comply with these restrictions or to maintain the financial measures and ratios contained in the debt agreements could lead to an event of default that could result in an acceleration of indebtedness. In addition, the amount and terms of any future indebtedness could:. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate, including limiting our ability to invest in our strategic initiatives, and consequently, place us at a competitive disadvantage;. • reduce the availability of our cash flows that would otherwise be available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; and. • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates, as discussed below under the Risk Factor \"Interest rate increases could affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.\". We are unlikely to declare cash dividends or repurchase our shares.. Although our board of directors has in the past authorized the payment of quarterly cash dividends on our common stock, we announced in 2016 that we did not plan to declare any further dividends. In addition, although our board has authorized stock purchase programs (and we repurchased shares as recently as 2015), we are unlikely to make any repurchases in the near term. Decisions to pay dividends on our common stock or to repurchase our common stock will be based upon periodic determinations by our board that such dividends or repurchases are both in compliance with all applicable laws and agreements and in the best interest of our stockholders after considering our financial condition and results of operations, the price of our common stock, credit conditions, and such other factors as are deemed relevant by our board. The failure to pay a cash dividend or repurchase stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Interest rate increases could affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.. Interest rate fluctuations in Europe and the U.S. can affect the amount of interest we pay related to our debt and the amount we earn on cash equivalents. Borrowings under our Texas Capital Bank credit facility bear interest at variable rates based upon the prime rate or LIBOR. Our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position could be materially or adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. We also have exposure to interest rate fluctuations in the U.S., specifically money market, commercial paper, and overnight time deposit rates, as these affect our earnings on excess cash. Even with the offsetting increase in earnings on excess cash in the event of an interest rate increase, we cannot be assured that future interest rate increases will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, or operating results.. 15. Table of Contents. We are subject to risks associated with operations outside the U.S.. Harte Hanks conducts business outside of the U.S. During 2017, approximately 13.8% of our revenues were derived from operations outside the U.S., primarily Europe and Asia. We may expand our international operations in the future as part of our growth strategy. Accordingly, our future operating results could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • changes in local, national, and international legal requirements or policies resulting in burdensome government controls, tariffs, restrictions, embargoes, or export license requirements;. • higher rates of inflation;. • the potential for nationalization of enterprises;. • less favorable labor laws that may increase employment costs and decrease workforce flexibility;. • potentially adverse tax treatment;. • less favorable foreign intellectual property laws that would make it more difficult to protect our intellectual property from misappropriation;. • more onerous or differing data privacy and security requirements or other marketing regulations;. • longer payment cycles;. • social, economic, and political instability; and. • the differing costs and difficulties of managing international operations.. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from foreign investments. We have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The various risks that are inherent in doing business in the U.S. are also generally applicable to doing business anywhere else, and may be exacerbated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws, and regulations.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. In addition, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could cause our stock price to decline.. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We identified control deficiencies in our financial reporting process that constitute material weaknesses; as of December 31, 2017, many of those material weaknesses were not yet remediated.. As discussed in Part II, Item 9A, we identified material weaknesses in the following areas at December 31, 2017; (i) each of five components of internal control as defined by COSO (control environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and communication, and monitoring), and (ii) the effectiveness of internal controls over the completeness and accuracy of data used to recognize and record revenue and related accounts such as accounts receivable, accrued revenue and deferred revenue, the precision of management's review of controls over revenue, and the identification of relevant systems used to process revenue transactions. As a result of these material weaknesses management has determined that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2017.. In light of the material weaknesses identified, we performed additional analyses and procedures to ensure that our consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP and fairly reflected our financial position and results of operations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017. Prior to our December 31, 2016 fiscal year end, we began taking a number of actions in order to remediate the material weaknesses described above, including developing a plan to redesign processes and controls, and in 2017 we engaged specialists to assist in the comprehensive review, design, and implementation of new internal controls. Improvements in the design and operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting that we have affected to date have led to the successful remediation of several previously disclosed material weaknesses including contingent consideration, recoverability of deferred tax assets, and financial close and reporting. Our remediation efforts will continue into the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018. We expect to incur additional costs remediating these material weaknesses.. Although we believe we are taking appropriate actions to remediate the control deficiencies identified and to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting, we may need to take additional measures to fully mitigate the material weaknesses discussed above. Measures to improve our internal controls may not be sufficient to ensure that our internal controls are effective or that the. 16. Table of Contents. identified material weaknesses will not result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements. In addition, other material weaknesses or deficiencies may be identified in the future. If we are unable to correct material weaknesses in internal controls in a timely manner, our ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information accurately and within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC will be adversely affected. This failure could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of our common stock, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, subject us to civil and criminal investigations and penalties, and adversely impact our business and financial condition.. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Implementation of new technology related to the control system may result in misstatements due to errors that are not detected and corrected during testing. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.. Fluctuation in our revenue and operating results and other factors may impact the volatility of our stock price.. The price at which our common stock has traded in recent years has fluctuated greatly and has declined significantly. Our common stock price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following (some of which are beyond our control):. • variations in our operating results from period to period and variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors, and the financial community;. • unanticipated developments with client engagements or client demand, such as variations in the size, budget, or progress toward the completion of engagements, variability in the market demand for our services, client consolidations, and the unanticipated termination of several major client engagements;. • announcements of developments affecting our businesses;. • competition and the operating results of our competitors;. • the overall strength of the economies of the markets we serve and general market volatility; and. • other factors discussed elsewhere in this Item 1A, \"Risk Factors.\". As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover protections that may discourage or prevent strategic transactions, including a takeover of our company, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, in conjunction with provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could delay or prevent a third party from entering into a strategic transaction with us, even if such a transaction would benefit our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for a staggered board of directors, do not allow written consents by stockholders, and have strict advance notice and disclosure requirements for nominees and stockholder proposals."
