[1] "Item 1A.Risk Factors.. The following factors should be reviewed carefully, in conjunction with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As previously discussed, our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Our business faces a variety of risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur, our business operations, performance and financial condition could be adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Reductions in customers’ research budgets or government funding may adversely affect our business.. Many of our customers representing a significant portion of our revenues are universities, government research laboratories, private foundations and other institutions who are dependent for their funding upon grants from U.S. government agencies, such as the United States National Institutes of Health (NIH), and similar agencies in other countries. Research and development spending of our customers can fluctuate based on spending priorities and general economic conditions. The level of government funding of research and development is unpredictable. There have been instances where NIH grants have been frozen or otherwise unavailable for extended periods or directed for certain products. Any reduction or delay in governmental spending could cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products. If government funding necessary to purchase our products were to decrease, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Spending by some of these customers fluctuates based on budget allocations and the timely passage of the annual federal budget. An impasse in federal government budget decisions could lead to substantial delays or reductions in federal spending.. 9. Table of Contents. With respect to acquisitions we have completed or may seek to consummate in the future, we have and will incur a variety of costs, and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions due in part to difficulties integrating the businesses, operations and product lines.. Our business strategy includes the acquisition of businesses, technologies, services or products that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. Most recently, in January 2018, we completed the acquisition of all the outstanding stock of Data Sciences International, Inc., (DSI) a privately held physiologic monitoring business with headquarters in St. Paul, Minnesota. With respect to these recent acquisitions or if we undertake any future acquisition, the process of integrating the acquired business, technology, service or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition as rapidly as expected or at all. Such transactions are inherently risky, and any such recent or future acquisitions could reduce stockholders’ ownership, cause us to incur debt, expose us to future liabilities and result in amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definite lives, which may adversely impact our ability to undertake future acquisitions on substantially similar terms. We may also incur significant expenditures in anticipation of an acquisition that is never realized.. Our ability to achieve the benefits of acquisitions depends in part on the integration and leveraging of technology, operations, sales and marketing channels and personnel. The integration process is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and may disrupt our business if not completed in a timely and efficient manner. We may have difficulty successfully integrating acquired businesses, and their domestic and foreign operations or product lines, and as a result, we may not realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions we make. We cannot assure that our growth rate will equal the growth rates that have been experienced by us and these and other acquired companies, respectively, operating as separate companies in the past.. We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and we may incur even more debt. Any failure to meet our debt and other financial obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. On January 31, 2018, we entered into a Financing Agreement with Cerberus Business Finance, LLC, as agent and lender (the Credit Agreement). As of March 16, 2018, we had borrowings of $67.0 million under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement includes financial covenants relating to leverage and fixed charges, as well as other customary affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and requires lender approval for acquisitions funded with cash, promissory notes and/or other consideration in excess of $1.0 million and for acquisitions in excess of $0.5 million. If we are not in compliance with certain of these covenants, in addition to other actions the creditor may require, the amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement may become immediately due and payable. This immediate payment may negatively impact our financial condition. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient to pay interest and principal on our debt in the future. If that should occur, our capital raising or debt restructuring measures may be unsuccessful or inadequate to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and further impair our liquidity.. The obligations under the Credit Agreement and related guarantees are secured on a first-priority basis (subject to certain liens permitted under the Credit Agreement) by a lien on substantially all the tangible and intangible assets of our company and the subsidiary guarantors, including all of the capital stock held by such obligors, subject to a 65% limitation on pledges of capital stock of foreign subsidiaries and certain other exceptions. Our Credit Agreement and related obligations:. •Require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes;. •May limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions or funding our strategic growth plan;. •Impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions;. •Expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations is at variable rates (which is mitigated to a certain extent, by interest rate hedging transactions we entered into in connection with our Credit Agreement); and. •Restrict our ability to fund certain acquisitions.. 10. Table of Contents. In addition, investors may be apprehensive about investing in companies such as ours that carry a substantial amount of leverage on their balance sheets, and this apprehension may adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Further, based upon our actual performance levels, our covenants relating to leverage and fixed charges could limit our ability to incur additional debt, which could hinder our ability to execute our current business strategy.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations and comply with financial covenants depends on our financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance will continue to be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Failure within any applicable grace or cure periods to may such payments, comply with the financial covenants, or any other non-financial or restrictive covenant, would create a default under our Credit Agreement. The maturity date with respect to the loans under the Credit Agreement is currently January 31, 2023. Our cash flow and existing capital resources may be insufficient to repay our debt at maturity, in which such case prior thereto we would have to extend such maturity date, or otherwise repay, refinance and or restructure the obligations under the Credit Agreement, including with proceeds from the sale of assets, and additional equity or debt capital. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining such extension, or entering into such repayment, refinance or restructure prior to maturity, or any other default existed under the Credit Agreement, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the Credit Agreement, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations.. A portion of our revenues are derived from customers from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and are subject to risks faced by those industries. Such risks may adversely affect our financial results.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We expect that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies will continue to be a significant source of our revenues for the foreseeable future, including in our PCMI, Ephys and Data Sciences commercial product families. As a result, we are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, such as government regulation, ongoing consolidation, uncertainty of technological change, and reductions and delays in research and development expenditures by companies in these industries.. In particular, the biotechnology industry is largely dependent on raising capital to fund its operations. If biotechnology companies that are our customers are unable to obtain the financing necessary to purchase our products, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we are dependent, both directly and indirectly, upon general health care spending patterns, particularly in the research and development budgets of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, as well as upon the financial condition and purchasing patterns of various governments and government agencies. As it relates to both the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, many companies have significant patents that have expired or are about to expire, which could result in reduced revenues for those companies. If pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies that are our customers suffer reduced revenues as a result of these patent expirations, they may be unable to purchase our products, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Customer, vendor and employee uncertainty about the effects of any of our acquisitions could harm us.. The customers of any company we acquire, including DSI and others in the future, may, in response to the consummation of the acquisition, delay or defer purchasing decisions. Any delay or deferral in purchasing decisions by customers could adversely affect our business. Similarly, employees of acquired companies may experience uncertainty about their future role until or after we execute our post-acquisition strategies. This may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel following an acquisition.. Our business is subject to economic, political and other risks associated with international revenues and operations.. We manufacture and sell our products worldwide and as a result, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. A substantial amount of our revenues are derived from international operations, and we anticipate that a significant portion of our sales will continue to come from outside the United States in the future. We anticipate that revenues from international operations will likely continue to increase as a result of our efforts to expand our business in markets abroad. In addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside the United States. Our foreign operations subject us to certain risks, including: effects of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (discussed below); the impact of local economic conditions; local product preferences and seasonality (discussed below) and product requirements; local difficulty to effectively establish and expand our business and operations in international markets; disruptions of capital and trading markets; restrictions and potentially negative tax implications of transfer of capital across borders; differing labor regulations; other factors beyond our control, including potential political instability, terrorism, acts of war, natural disasters and diseases; unexpected changes and increased enforcement of regulatory requirements and various state, federal and international, intellectual property, environmental, antitrust, anti-corruption, fraud and abuse (including anti-kickback and false claims laws) and employment laws; and interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers.. 11. Table of Contents. Specifically with respect to the expansion of our business into China, our financial performance may be subject to the following risks, among others affecting companies that operate in China: the impact of declining economic growth in China; regulation of foreign investment and business activities by the Chinese government, including recent scrutiny of foreign companies, may limit our ability to expand our business in China; uncertainties with respect to the legal system in China may limit the legal protections available to us in China; government restrictions on the remittance of currency out of China and the ability of any subsidiary we may establish in China to pay dividends and make other distributions to us; and potential unfavorable tax consequences as a result of our operations in China.. Newly enacted U.S. government tax reform could have a negative impact on the results of future operations.. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law H.R. 1, originally known as the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act”, hereafter referred to as “the Tax Act”, to be effective as of January 1, 2018. The Company is in the process of determining the impact to the financial statements of all aspects of the Tax Act and will reflect the impact of such reform in the financial statements during the period in which such amounts can be reasonably estimated. The Tax Act contained certain substantial changes to the Internal Revenue Code, some of which could have an adverse effect on our business. The Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates, implementing a modified territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on undistributed foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Given the complexity of the Tax Act, anticipated guidance from the Internal Revenue Service about implementing the Tax Act, and the potential for additional guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Financial Accounting Standards Board related to the Tax Act, the intended and unintended consequences of the Tax Act on our business and on holders of our common shares is uncertain and could be adverse, which could result in further impact to our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may have a negative impact on our reported earnings.. We are also subject to the risks of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates, which could have an adverse effect on the sales price of our products in foreign markets, as well as the costs and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries. A substantial amount of our revenues are derived from international operations, and we anticipate that a significant portion of revenues will continue to come from outside the United States in the future. As a result, currency fluctuations among the United States dollar, British pound, euro and the other currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency translation and transaction gains and losses. We have not used forward exchange contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposures. We attempt to manage foreign currency risk through the matching of assets and liabilities. In the future, we may undertake to manage foreign currency risk through hedging methods, including foreign currency contracts. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in managing foreign currency risk or in predicting the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the degree to which we can address these risks.. Economic conditions and regulatory changes caused by the United Kingdom’s likely exit from the European Union could adversely affect our business.. In June 2016, the United Kingdom (the U.K.) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (E.U.), commonly referred to as Brexit. On March 29, 2017, the U.K. formally notified the E.U. of its intention to withdraw pursuant to the Treaty on European Union. The withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. will take effect either when agreed upon or, in the absence of such an agreement, two years after the U.K. provided its notice of withdrawal. It appears likely that this withdrawal will involve a process of lengthy negotiations between the U.K. and the E.U. member states to determine the terms of the withdrawal as well as the U.K.’s relationship with the E.U. going forward. The announcement of Brexit has resulted in significant volatility in global stock market and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other foreign currencies in which we conduct business. The announcement of Brexit and the likely withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. may also create global economic uncertainty, including an uncertain funding environment for U.K. customers receiving funding from the E.U, which may cause our customers to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budgets. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to E.U. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. Since a significant proportion of the regulatory framework in the U.K. is derived from E.U. directives and regulations, the referendum could materially change the regulatory regime applicable to the approval of any product candidates in the U.K. In addition, since the EMA is located in the U.K., the implications for the regulatory review process in the E.U. has not been clarified and could result in relocation of the EMA or a disruption in the EMA review process.. 12. Table of Contents. Further, Brexit could adversely affect European and worldwide economic or market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial markets. Brexit is likely to lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Domestic and global economic conditions could adversely affect our operations.. We are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States, deteriorate, we may experience an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Concerns about credit markets, consumer confidence, economic conditions, government spending to sponsor life science research, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending could negatively impact demand for our products. If economic growth in the United States and other countries slows or deteriorates, customers may delay or forego purchases of our products. Unstable economic, political and social conditions make it difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions exist, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We cannot project the extent of the impact of the economic environment on our industry or us.. Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products, adversely impact our revenues, or increase our expenses.. We compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, and advertising and post marketing reporting. We must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. Possible regulatory actions for non-compliance could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of our products, and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to our business practices and operations; refunds, recalls, or seizures of our products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of our facilities while we or our suppliers remedy the alleged violation; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and financial condition.. We continue to expand our business into foreign countries and international markets. If our products are not accepted in these new markets our financial performance may suffer.. We continue to aggressively expand our sales and marketing efforts in foreign countries and international markets. The cost and diversion of resources to these efforts may not result in an increase in revenues in our business. Expansion of our business into new markets may be more costly and require the devotion of more of our management’s time than we anticipate, which may hurt our business performance in other markets. Our operating results may suffer to the extent that our efforts to expand our product sales in these new markets are delayed or prove to be unsuccessful.. The life sciences industry is very competitive.. We expect to encounter increased competition from both established and development-stage companies that continually enter the market. These include companies developing and marketing life science instruments, systems and lab consumables, health care companies that manufacture laboratory-based tests and analyzers, diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies, analytical instrument companies, and companies developing life science or drug discovery technologies. Currently, our principal competition comes from established companies that provide products that perform many of the same functions for which we market our products. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, operational, marketing and technical resources than we do. Moreover, these competitors may offer broader product lines and tactical discounts, and may have greater name recognition. In addition, we may face competition from new entrants into the field. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. In addition, we face changing customer preferences and requirements, including increased customer demand for more environmentally-friendly products.. The life sciences industry is also subject to rapid technological change and discovery. The development of new or improved products, processes or technologies by other companies may render our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. In some instances, our competitors may develop or market products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future products. To meet the evolving needs of customers, we must continually enhance our current and planned products and develop and introduce new products. However, we may experience difficulties that may delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products or product enhancements. In addition, our product lines are based on complex technologies that are subject to change as new technologies are developed and introduced in the marketplace. We may have difficulty in keeping abreast of the changes affecting each of the different markets we serve or intend to serve. Our failure to develop and introduce products in a timely manner in response to changing technology, market demands or the requirements of our customers could cause our product sales to decline, and we could experience significant losses.. 13. Table of Contents. We offer and plan to offer a broad range of products and have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses for development of new products and enhanced versions of our existing products. The speed of technological change in our market may prevent us from being able to successfully market some or all of our products for the length of time required to recover development costs. Failure to recover the development costs of one or more products or product lines could decrease our profitability or cause us to experience significant losses.. Ethical concerns surrounding the use of our products and misunderstanding of the nature of our business could adversely affect our ability to develop and sell our existing products and new products.. Some of our products may be used in areas of research usage involving animal research and other techniques presently being explored in the life science industry. These techniques have drawn negative attention in the public forum. Government authorities may regulate or prohibit any of these activities. Additionally, the public may disfavor or reject these activities.. If we are not able to manage our growth, our operating profits may be adversely impacted.. Our success will depend on the expansion of our operations through both organic growth and acquisitions. Effective growth management will place increased demands on our management team, operational and financial resources and expertise. To manage growth, we must expand our facilities, optimize our operational, financial and management systems, and hire and train additional qualified personnel. Failure to manage this growth effectively could impair our ability to generate revenues or could cause our expenses to increase more rapidly than revenues, resulting in operating losses or reduced profitability.. Failure or inadequacy of our information technology infrastructure or software could adversely affect our day-to-day operations and decision-making processes and have an adverse effect on our performance.. We depend on accurate and timely information and numerical data from key software applications to aid our day-to-day business, financial reporting and decision-making and, in many cases, proprietary and custom-designed software is necessary to operate our business. We are upgrading our disaster recovery procedures for our critical systems. However, any disruption caused by the failure of these systems, the underlying equipment, or communication networks could delay or otherwise adversely impact our day-to-day business and decision making, could make it impossible for us to operate critical equipment, and could have an adverse effect on our performance, if our disaster recovery plans do not mitigate the disruption. Disruptions could be caused by a variety of factors, such as catastrophic events or weather, power outages, or cyber-attacks on our systems by outside parties.. An information security incident, including a cybersecurity breach, could have a negative impact to our business or reputation. To meet business objectives, we rely on both internal information technology (IT) systems and networks, and those of third parties and their vendors, to process and store sensitive data, including confidential research, business plans, financial information, intellectual property, and personal data that may be subject to legal protection. The extensive information security and cybersecurity threats, which affect companies globally, pose a risk to the security and availability of these IT systems and networks, and the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our sensitive data. We continually assess these threats and make investments to increase internal protection, detection, and response capabilities, as well as ensure our third party providers have required capabilities and controls, to address this risk. To date, we have not experienced any material impact to the business or operations resulting from information or cybersecurity attacks; however, because of the frequently changing attack techniques, along with the increased volume and sophistication of the attacks, there is the potential for us to be adversely impacted. This impact could result in reputational, competitive, operational or other business harm as well as financial costs and regulatory action.. We may experience difficulties fully implementing our enterprise resource planning systems.. We have been engaged in a project to upgrade and harmonize our enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems. Our ERP systems are critical to our ability to accurately maintain books and records, record transactions, provide important information to our management and prepare our financial statements. The implementation of the new ERP systems has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant financial and human resources. In addition, we may not be able to successfully complete the full implementation of the ERP systems without experiencing difficulties. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the new ERP systems could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business.. 14. Table of Contents. We may incur additional restructuring costs or not realize the expected benefits of our initiatives to reduce operating expenses to date and in the future.. We may not be able to implement all of the actions that we intend to take in the restructuring of our operations and we may not be able to fully realize the expected benefits from such realignment and restructuring plans or other similar restructurings in the future. In addition, we may incur additional restructuring costs in implementing such realignment and restructuring plans or other similar future plans in excess of our expectations. The implementation of our restructuring efforts, including the reduction of our workforce, may not improve our operational and cost structure or result in greater efficiency of our organization; and we may not be able to support sustainable revenue growth and profitability following such restructurings.. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future.. We will consider the acquisition of other businesses. However, we may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of our business. In order to pursue such opportunities, we may require significant additional financing, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. We expect that our competitors, many of which have significantly greater resources than we do, will compete with us to acquire businesses. This competition could increase prices for acquisitions that we would likely pursue.. We may be the subject of lawsuits from counterparties to acquisitions and divestitures, including an acquiring company or its stockholders, an acquired company’s previous stockholders, a divested company’s stockholders or our current stockholders.. We may be the subject of lawsuits from either an acquiring company or its stockholders, an acquired company’s previous stockholders, a divested company’s stockholders or our current stockholders. Such lawsuits could result from the actions of the acquisition or divestiture target prior to the date of the acquisition or divestiture, from the acquisition or divestiture transaction itself or from actions after the acquisition or divestiture. Defending potential lawsuits could cost us significant expense and detract management’s attention from the operation of the business. Additionally, these lawsuits could result in the cancellation of or the inability to renew certain insurance coverage that would be necessary to protect our assets.. Failure to raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to implement our acquisition strategy, expand our operations and invest in new products could reduce our ability to compete and result in less revenues.. We anticipate that our financial resources, which include available cash, cash generated from operations, and debt and equity capacity, will be sufficient to finance operations and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months. However, this expectation is premised on the current operating plan, which may change as a result of many factors, including market acceptance of new products and future opportunities with collaborators. Consequently, we may need additional funding sooner than anticipated. In addition, our Credit Agreement is not sufficient to fund our acquisition strategy. In such case, our inability to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and in a timely manner (if at all) could seriously harm our business, product development, and acquisition efforts. In addition, our Credit Agreement contains limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and requires lender approval for acquisitions funded with cash, promissory notes and/or other consideration in excess of $1.0 million and for acquisitions in excess of $0.5 million. If future financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we may have to alter our operations or change our business strategy. We cannot assure you that the capital required to fund operations or our acquisition strategy will be available in the future.. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity or convertible debt or equity-linked securities, existing percentages of ownership in our common stock will be reduced and these transactions may dilute the value of our outstanding common stock.. We may raise additional funds through the sale of equity or convertible debt or equity-linked securities to repay our existing indebtedness, implement our acquisition strategy, expand our operations and/or invest in new products. If we so raise additional funds through such sales, existing percentages of ownership in our common stock will be reduced and these transactions may dilute the value of our outstanding common stock. We may issue securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. If we raise additional funds through collaborations or licensing arrangements, we may relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products, or grant licenses to third parties on terms that are unfavorable.. 15. Table of Contents. Our stock price has fluctuated in the past and could experience substantial declines in the future.. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may become volatile and could decline in the future, perhaps substantially, in response to various factors including, but not limited to:. •Significant sales of our common stock, whether by us or our shareholders;. •volatility of the financial markets;. •uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies;. •technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies;. •revenues and operating results fluctuating or failing to meet the expectations of management, securities analysts, or investors in any quarter;. •comments of securities analysts and mistakes by or misinterpretation of comments from analysts, downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates or management guidance;. •investment banks and securities analysts becoming subject to lawsuits that may adversely affect the perception of the market;. •conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries;. •announcements of significant acquisitions or financings or strategic partnerships;. •failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the DSI acquisition;. •non-compliance with the internal control standards pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and. •a decrease in the demand for our common stock.. In addition, public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volatility. The stock market and the NASDAQ Global Market in general, and the biotechnology industry and small cap markets in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that at times may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may further harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources.. As a result of our spin-off of Harvard Apparatus Regenerative Technology, Inc., now known as Biostage, together with certain related transactions, third parties may seek to hold us responsible for Biostage’s liabilities, including liabilities that Biostage has assumed from us.. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for Biostage’s liabilities, including any of the liabilities that Biostage agreed to retain or assume in connection with the separation of the Biostage business from our businesses, and related spin-off distribution. On April 14, 2017, anticipated representatives for the estate of an individual plaintiff filed a wrongful death complaint with the Suffolk Superior Court, in the County of Suffolk, Massachusetts, against us and other defendants, including Biostage, as well as another third party. The complaint seeks payment for an unspecified amount of damages and alleges that the plaintiff sustained terminal injuries allegedly caused by products, including synthetic trachea scaffolds and bioreactors, provided by certain of the named defendants and utilized in connection with surgeries performed by third parties in 2012 and 2013. The litigation is at an early stage and we continue to vigorously defend this case through our liability insurance carrier from whom we have requested defense and indemnification of any losses incurred in connection with this lawsuit. Any such product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to satisfy all liabilities resulting from this claim. If claims against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. While we believe that such claim is without merit, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. Pursuant to our agreements with Biostage, Biostage has agreed to indemnify us for claims and losses relating to certain liabilities that it has assumed from us, including liabilities in connection with the sale of Biostage’s products, intellectually property infringement and other liabilities related to the operation of Biostage’s business. However, if those liabilities are significant and we are ultimately held liable for them, we cannot assure you that Biostage will have the ability to satisfy its obligations to us, in particular due to Biostage having limited revenues, products in early stage development and a need for additional funds in the future. If Biostage is unable to satisfy its obligations under its indemnity to us, we may have to satisfy these obligations, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is also required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined, which could adversely impact our results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Accounting for goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets may have an adverse effect on us.. We assess the recoverability of identifiable intangibles with finite lives and other long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable in accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 360, “Property, Plant and Equipment”. In accordance with FASB ASC 350, “Intangibles-Goodwill and Other”, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives from acquisitions are evaluated annually, or more frequently, if events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment, to determine whether any portion of the remaining balance of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles may not be recoverable. If it is determined in the future that a portion of our goodwill and other intangible assets is impaired, we will be required to write off that portion of the asset according to the methods defined by FASB ASC 360 and FASB ASC 350, which could have an adverse effect on net income for the period in which the write-off occurs. At December 31, 2017, we had goodwill and intangible assets of $57.2 million, or 52%, of our total assets and we concluded that none of our goodwill or other intangible assets was impaired.. If our accounting estimates are not correct, our financial results could be adversely affected.. Management judgment and estimates are required in the application of our Critical Accounting Policies. We discuss these estimates in the subsection entitled critical accounting policies beginning on page 34 in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report. If our estimates are incorrect, our future financial operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. If we fail to retain key personnel and hire, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in reduced revenue or increased costs.. Our success is highly dependent on the continued services of key management, technical and scientific personnel. Our management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time upon short notice. The loss of the services of any member of the senior management team, including the Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey A. Duchemin; the Chief Financial Officer, Robert E. Gagnon; the Vice President, Commercial Operations, Yong Sun; or any of the managerial, technical or scientific staff may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development, our growth strategies and other business objectives. Our future success will also depend on our ability to identify, recruit and retain additional qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. We operate in several geographic locations where labor markets are particularly competitive, including the Boston, Massachusetts metropolitan area, England, and Germany where demand for personnel with these skills is extremely high and is likely to remain high. As a result, competition for qualified personnel is intense, particularly in the areas of general management, finance, information technology, engineering and science, and the process of hiring suitably qualified personnel is often lengthy and expensive, and may become more expensive in the future. If we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our ability to conduct and expand our business could be seriously reduced.. If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, third parties may use our technology, which would impair our ability to compete in our markets.. Our continued success will depend in significant part on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for certain of our products throughout the world. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. We also own numerous United States registered trademarks and trade names and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending. We rely on patents to protect a significant part of our intellectual property and to enhance our competitive position. However, our presently pending or future patent applications may not be accepted and patents might not be issued, and any patent previously issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. Furthermore, the claims in patents which have been issued or which may be issued to us in the future may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products similar to our products. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries in which we compete may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent, as do the laws of the United States. If we fail to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary technology, our ability to be commercially competitive could be materially impaired.. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade-secrets and proprietary information, we generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners upon the commencement of a relationship. However, we may not be able to obtain these agreements in all circumstances in part due to local regulations. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade-secrets or other confidential information. In addition, adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information would impair our competitive advantages and could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects.. 17. Table of Contents. The manufacture, sale and use of products and services may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability.. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products, services or product candidates, including without limitation, any of our life science research tools are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. We may in the future be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we can obtain. If we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted.. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents that would be expensive and time-consuming.. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. Several of our products are based on patents that are closely surrounded by patents held by competitors or potential competitors. As a result, we believe there is a greater likelihood of a patent dispute than would be expected if our patents were not closely surrounded by other patents. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings would be costly and divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits should they occur. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of being rejected and no patents being issued.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. For example, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. Securities analysts or investors may perceive these announcements to be negative, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline.. Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of others.. We may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others, including the patent rights, trademarks and trade names of third parties. Intellectual property litigation is costly and the outcome is uncertain. If we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity, or obtain a license to or design around the intellectual property in question. If we are unable to obtain a required license on acceptable terms, or are unable to design around any third party patent, we may be unable to sell some of our products and services, which could result in reduced revenue.. Rising commodity and precious metals costs could adversely impact our profitability.. Raw material commodities such as resins, and precious metal commodities such as platinum are subject to wide price variations. Increases in the costs of these commodities and the costs of energy, transportation and other necessary services may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies such as in manufacturing and distribution.. Regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and otherwise adversely impact our business.. The SEC has promulgated final rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act regarding disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as conflict minerals, in products manufactured by public companies. These new rules require ongoing due diligence to determine whether such minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo (the DRC) or an adjoining country and whether such minerals helped finance the armed conflict in the DRC. Reporting obligations for the rule began on May 31, 2014 and are required annually thereafter. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs to determine the origin of conflict minerals in our products. The implementation of these rules and their effect on customer, supplier and/or consumer behavior could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As a result, we may also incur costs with respect to potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply. We may face disqualification as a supplier for customers and reputational challenges if the due diligence procedures we implement do not enable us to verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products, including that such minerals did not originate from any of the covered conflict countries. Accordingly, the implementation of these rules could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.. 18. Table of Contents. Provisions of Delaware law, of our charter and bylaws may make a takeover more difficult, which could cause our stock price to decline.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in the Delaware corporate law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt, which is opposed by management and the board of directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. We have a staggered board of directors that makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors in any one year. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to change our management and board of directors. Such provisions may also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future.. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained.. Although our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market, an active trading market for the shares may not be sustained. This could negatively affect the price for our common stock, including investors’ ability to buy or sell our common stock and the listing thereof.. Your percentage ownership will be diluted in the future because of equity award issuances.. Your percentage ownership will be diluted in the future because of equity awards that we expect will be granted to our directors, officers and employees, as well as shares of common stock, or securities convertible into common stock, we issue in connection with future capital raising or strategic transactions. Our Third Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Option and Incentive Plan provides for the grant of equity-based awards, including restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock options, stock appreciation rights and other equity-based awards to our directors, officers and other employees, advisors and consultants. The issuance of any shares of our stock would dilute the proportionate ownership and voting power of existing security holders.. Any issuance of preferred stock in the future may dilute the rights of our common stockholders.. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, privileges and other terms of these shares. The board of directors may exercise this authority without any further approval of stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of future holders of preferred stock.. Cash dividends will not likely be paid on our common stock.. Currently, we intend to retain all of our earnings to finance the expansion and development of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the near future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be a stockholder’s sole source of gain for the near future.. Changes in the European regulatory environment regarding privacy and data protection regulations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. The E.U. has recently adopted a comprehensive overhaul of its data protection regime in the form of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which comes into effect in May 2018. GDPR extends the scope of the existing E.U. data protection law to foreign companies processing personal data of E.U. residents. The regulation imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with severe penalties of 4% of worldwide turnover or \20020 million, whichever is greater, and includes new rights such as the right of erasure of personal data. Although the GDPR will apply across the E.U., as has been the case under the current data protection regime, E.U. Member States have some national derogations and local data protection authorities (DPAs) will still have the ability to interpret the GDPR, which has the potential to create inconsistencies on a country-by-country basis. Implementation of, and compliance with the GDPR could increase our cost of doing business and/or force us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. In addition, violations of the GDPR may result in significant fines, penalties and damage to our brand and business which could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business and reputation.. 19. Table of Contents"
