[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.. In addition to the risks identified elsewhere in this report, the following risk factors apply to our business, results of operations, and financial conditions.. ECONOMIC RISKS. Our business is affected by global economic volatility.. Our business and results of operations are significantly impacted by general world-wide economic conditions. Demand for discretionary purchases including air travel and vacations to Hawai'i remains unpredictable. Deterioration in demand resulting from economic uncertainty or another recession may result in a reduction in our passenger traffic and/or increased competitive. 8. Table of Contents. pressure on fares in the markets we serve, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure that we would be able to offset such revenue reductions by reducing our costs.. Our business is highly dependent on tourism to, from, and amongst the Hawaiian Islands and our financial results could suffer if there is a downturn in tourism levels.. Our principal base of operations is in Hawai'i and our revenue is linked primarily to the number of travelers (mainly tourists) to, from and amongst the Hawaiian Islands. Hawai'i tourism levels are affected by the political and economic climate in Hawai'i's main tourism markets, the availability of hotel accommodations, the popularity of Hawai'i as a tourist destination relative to other vacation destinations, and other global factors, including natural disasters, safety, and security. From time to time, various events and industry specific problems such as labor strikes have had a negative impact on tourism in Hawai'i. The occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, and tsunamis, in Hawai'i or other parts of the world could also have a material adverse effect on Hawai'i tourism. In addition, the potential or actual occurrence of terrorist attacks, wars, and the threat of other negative world events have had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on Hawai'i tourism. A decline in the level of Hawai'i passenger traffic could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is highly dependent on the price and availability of fuel.. Our results and operations are heavily impacted by the price and availability of jet fuel.  While we have benefited in the past from lower fuel costs, fuel costs began to increase in 2017 and we cannot assure that fuel costs will not increase further in the future. The cost and availability of jet fuel remains volatile and is subject to political, economic, and market factors that are generally outside of our control. Prices may be affected by many factors including, without limitation, the impact of political instability, crude oil production and refining capacity, unexpected changes in the availability of petroleum products due to disruptions to distribution systems or refineries, unpredicted increases in demand due to weather or the pace of global economic growth, inventory reserve levels of crude oil and other petroleum products, the relative fluctuation between the U.S. dollar and other major currencies, and the actions of speculators in commodity markets. Because of the effects of these factors on the price and availability of jet fuel, the cost and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. Also, due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our fares or other fees to sufficiently offset any increase in fuel prices.. We enter into derivative agreements to protect against the volatility of fuel costs. There is no assurance that such agreements will protect us during unfavorable market conditions or that our counterparties will be able to perform under these hedge arrangements.. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, for further information regarding our exposure to the price of fuel.. Our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.. Our business is expanding internationally with an increasing percentage of our passenger revenue generated from our International routes. The fluctuation of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies can significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. To manage the effects of fluctuating exchange rates, we periodically enter into foreign currency forward contracts. There is no assurance that such agreements will protect us against foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations during unfavorable market conditions or that our counterparties will be able to perform under these hedge arrangements.. COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT RISKS. We operate in an extremely competitive environment.. The airline industry is characterized by low profit margins, high fixed costs, and significant price competition. We compete with other airlines on all of our Domestic and International routes. The commencement of, or increase in, service on our routes by existing or new carriers could negatively impact our operating results. Many of our competitors on our North America and International routes are larger and have greater financial resources and brand recognition than we do. Aggressive marketing tactics or a prolonged fare war initiated by one or more of these competitors could adversely affect our financial resources and our ability to compete in these markets. Since airline markets have few natural barriers to entry, we also face the threat of new entrants in all of our markets.. 9. Table of Contents. Additional capacity to Hawai'i, whether from network carriers or LCCs, could decrease our share of the markets in which we operate, could cause a decline in our yields, or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The concentration of our business in Hawai'i, and between Hawai'i and the U.S. mainland, provides little diversification of our revenue.. During 2017, approximately 75% of our passenger revenue was generated from our Domestic routes. Many of our competitors, particularly major network carriers with whom we compete on our North America routes, enjoy greater geographical diversification of their revenue. A reduction in the level of demand for travel within Hawai'i, or to Hawai'i from the U.S. mainland, or an increase in the level of industry capacity on these routes may reduce the revenue we are able to generate and adversely affect our financial results. As these routes account for a significantly higher proportion of our revenue than they do for many of our competitors, such a reduction would have a relatively greater adverse effect on our financial results.. Our business is affected by the competitive advantages held by network carriers in the North America market.. During 2017, approximately 53% of our passenger revenue was generated from our North America routes. The majority of competition on our North America routes is from network carriers such as Alaska Airlines, American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, and United Airlines, all of whom have a number of competitive advantages.  Primarily, network carriers generate passenger traffic from and throughout the U.S. mainland, which enable them to attract higher customer traffic levels as compared to us. Also, there have been recent announcements by other carriers, such as Southwest Airlines, to increase capacity to and from Hawai'i, and possibly amongst the Hawaiian Islands.. In contrast, we lack a comparable direct network to feed passengers to our North America flights and are therefore more reliant on passenger demand in the specific cities we serve. We also rely on our code-share partner agreements (e.g.  JetBlue) to provide customers access to and from North American destinations currently unserved by us.  Most network carriers operate from hubs, which can provide a built-in market of passengers depending on the economic strength of the hub city and the size of the customer group that frequent the airline. Our Honolulu and Maui hubs do not originate a large proportion of North American travel, nor do they have the population or potential customer franchise of a larger city to provide us with a built-in market. Passengers in the North American market, for the most part, do not originate in Honolulu, but on the U.S. mainland, making Honolulu primarily a destination rather than an origin of passenger traffic.. Our Neighbor Island routes are affected by increased capacity provided by our competitors.. During 2017, approximately 22% of our passenger revenue was generated from our Neighbor Island routes. Although we enjoy a strong competitive position on our Neighbor Island routes, our competitors have increased capacity to Hawai'i either by introducing new routes or increasing the frequency of existing routes from North America to the Neighbor Islands. This additional capacity provided by our competitors has the effect of decreasing our share of traffic on our Neighbor Island routes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our International routes are affected by competition from domestic and foreign carriers.. During 2017, approximately 25% of our passenger revenue was generated from our International routes. Our competitors on these routes include both domestic and foreign carriers. Both domestic and foreign competitors have a number of competitive advantages that may enable them to attract higher customer traffic levels as compared to us.. Many of our domestic competitors have joined airline alliances, which provide customers access to each participating airline's international network, allowing for convenience and connectivity to their destinations. These alliances formed by our domestic competitors have increased in recent years. In some instances our domestic competitors have been granted antitrust exemptions to form joint venture arrangements in certain geographies, further deepening their cooperation on certain routes. To mitigate this risk, we rely on code-share agreements with partner airlines to provide customers access to international destinations currently unserved by us.. Many of our foreign competitors are network carriers that benefit from network feed to support International routes on which we compete. In contrast, we lack a comparable direct network to feed passengers to our International flights, and are therefore more reliant on passenger demand in the specific destinations that we serve. Most network carriers operate from hubs, which can provide a built-in home base market of passengers. Passengers on our International routes, for the most part, do not originate in Hawai'i, but rather internationally, in these foreign carriers' home bases. We also rely on our code-share agreements. 10. Table of Contents. and our relationships with travel agencies and wholesale distributors to provide customers access to and from International destinations currently unserved by us.. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND THIRD-PARTY RISKS. If we do not maintain the privacy and security of customer-related information or fail to comply with applicable U.S. and foreign privacy or data security regulations or security standards imposed by our commercial partners, our reputation could be damaged, we could incur substantial additional costs, and we could become subject to litigation or regulatory penalties.. We receive, retain, and transmit personal information about our customers and we are subject to increasing legislative, regulatory and customer focus on privacy and data security. A number of our commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed data security standards that we are obligated to meet and these standards continue to evolve. We will continue our efforts to meet new and increasing privacy and security standards; however, it is possible that such new standards may prove difficult to meet, require us to expend additional resources, and result in us being unable to process credit card transactions if determined to be non-compliant.  Additionally, any compromise of our technology systems could result in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to our customers', employees' or business partners' information. Any such loss, disclosure, misappropriation or access could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information. Any significant data breach or our failure to comply with applicable U.S. and foreign privacy or data security regulations or security standards imposed by our commercial partners may adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition, and may require that we expend significant additional resources related to the security of information systems.. We are increasingly dependent on technology and automated systems to operate our business.. We depend heavily on technology and automated systems to effectively operate our business. These systems include flight operations systems, communications systems, airport systems, reservations systems, management and accounting systems, commercial websites, including www.hawaiianairlines.com, and other systems, all of which must be able to accommodate high traffic volumes, maintain secure information and provide accurate flight information, as well as process critical financial related transactions. Any substantial or repeated failures of these systems could negatively affect our customer service, compromise the security of customer information, result in the loss of important data, loss of revenue and increased costs, and generally harm our business. Like other companies, our systems may be vulnerable to disruptions due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, power disruptions, software or equipment failures, terrorist attacks, cybersecurity threats, computer viruses and hackers. There can be no assurance that the measures we have taken to reduce the adverse effects of certain potential failures or disruptions are adequate to prevent or remedy disruptions of our systems. In addition, we will need to continuously make significant investments in technology to periodically upgrade and replace existing systems. If we are unable to make these investments or fail to successfully implement, upgrade or replace our systems, our business could be adversely impacted.. We are highly reliant on third-party contractors to provide certain facilities and services for our operations, and termination of our third-party agreements could have a potentially adverse effect on our financial results.. We have historically relied on outside vendors for a variety of services and functions critical to our business, including aircraft maintenance and parts, code-sharing, reservations, computer services including hosting and software maintenance, accounting, frequent flyer programs, passenger processing, ground facilities, baggage and cargo handling, personnel training, and the distribution and sale of airline seats. As part of our cost-control efforts, our reliance on outside vendors has increased and may continue to do so in the future.. The failure of any of our third-party service providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other interruptions of services may reduce our revenues, increase expenses, and/or prevent us from operating our flights and providing other services to our customers. Our business and financial performance would be materially harmed if our customers believe that our services are unreliable or unsatisfactory.. LABOR RELATIONS AND RELATED COSTS RISKS. We are dependent on satisfactory labor relations.. Labor costs are a significant component of airline expenses and can substantially impact an airline's results of operations. A significant portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions. We may make strategic and operational decisions that require the consent of one or more of these labor unions, and these labor unions could demand additional wages, benefits or other consideration in return for their consent.. 11. Table of Contents. In addition, we have entered into collective bargaining agreements with our pilots, mechanical group employees, clerical group employees, flight attendants, and dispatchers. We cannot ensure that future agreements with our employees' labor unions will be on terms in line with our expectations or comparable to agreements entered into by our competitors, and any future agreements may increase our labor costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. We are currently in labor negotiations with our flight attendants' union, AFA, whose contract became amendable on January 1, 2017.  If we are unable to reach an agreement with any unionized work group, we may be subject to future work interruptions and/or stoppages, which may hamper or halt operations.  In addition, the threat of future work interruptions and/or stoppages may cause a decline in our passenger traffic, negatively impacting our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel and key executives.. We believe that our future success is dependent on the knowledge and expertise of our key executives and highly qualified management, technical, and other personnel. Attracting and retaining such personnel in the airline industry is highly competitive. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our key executives or attract other qualified personnel in the future. Any inability to retain our key executives, or attract and retain additional qualified executives, could have a negative impact on our operations.. In addition, as we continue to expand our operations through the acquisition of new aircraft and introduction of service to new markets, it may be challenging to attract a sufficient number of qualified personnel including pilots, mechanics and other skilled labor. As we compete with other carriers for qualified personnel, we also face the challenge of attracting individuals who embrace our team-oriented, friendly and customer-driven corporate culture. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel who embrace our corporate culture could have a negative impact on our reputation and overall operations.. STRATEGY AND BRAND RISKS. Our failure to successfully implement our route and network strategy could harm our business.. Our route and network strategy (how we determine to deploy our fleet) includes initiatives to increase revenue, decrease costs, mature our network, and improve distribution of our sales channels. It is critical that we execute upon our planned strategy in order for our business to attain economies of scale and to sustain or improve our results of operations. If we are unable to utilize and fill increased capacity provided by additional aircraft entering our fleet, hire and retain skilled personnel, or secure the required equipment and facilities in a cost-effective manner, we may be unable to successfully develop and grow our new and existing markets, which may adversely affect our business and operations.. We continue to strive toward aggressive cost-containment goals which are an important part of our business strategy to offer the best value to passengers through competitive fares while maintaining acceptable profit margins and return on capital. We believe a lower cost structure will better position us to fund our strategy and take advantage of market opportunities. If we are unable to adequately contain our non-fuel unit costs, our financial results may suffer.. Our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of adverse publicity, including the event of an aircraft accident or incident.. Our customer base is broad and our business activities have significant prominence, particularly in Hawai'i and other destinations we serve. Consequently, negative publicity resulting from real or perceived shortcomings in our customer service, employee relations, business conduct, or other events affecting our operations could negatively affect the public image of our company and the willingness of customers to purchase services from us, which could affect our financial results.. Additionally, we are exposed to potential losses that may be incurred in the event of an aircraft accident or incident. Any such accident or incident involving our aircraft or an aircraft operated by one of our code-share partners could involve not only the repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss of revenue, but also significant claims of injured passengers and others. We are required by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to carry liability insurance, and although we currently maintain liability insurance in amounts consistent with the industry, we cannot be assured that our insurance coverage will adequately cover us from all claims and we may be forced to bear substantial losses incurred with an accident. In addition, any aircraft accident or incident could cause a public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other airlines, which would harm our business.. 12. Table of Contents. AIRLINE INDUSTRY, REGULATION AND RELATED COSTS RISKS. The airline industry has substantial operating leverage and is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations.. The airline industry has historically operated on low gross profit margins. Due to the substantial fixed costs associated with operating an airline, there is a disproportionate relationship between the cost of operating each flight and the number of passengers carried. However, the revenue generated from a particular flight is directly related to the number of passengers carried and the respective average fares applied. Accordingly, a decrease in the number of passengers carried would cause a corresponding decrease in revenue (if not offset by higher fares), and it may result in a disproportionately greater decrease in profits. Therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the following or other factors, which are largely outside of our control, could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations:. • decline in general economic conditions;. • continued threat of terrorist attacks and conflicts overseas;. • actual or threatened war and political instability;. • increased security measures or breaches in security;. • adverse weather and natural disasters;. • changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, or spending patterns;. • increased costs related to security and safety measures;. • increased fares as a result of increases in fuel costs;. • outbreaks of contagious diseases or fear of contagion; and. • congestion at airports and actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system.. Our results of operations may be volatile due to the conditions identified above. We cannot ensure that our financial resources will be sufficient to absorb the effects of any of these unexpected factors should they occur.. Our financial results and operations may be negatively affected by the State of Hawai'i's airport modernization plan.. The State of Hawai'i has begun to implement a modernization plan encompassing the airports we serve within the State. Our landing fees and airport rent rates have increased to fund the modernization program. Additionally, we expect the costs for our Neighbor Island operations to increase more than the costs related to our North America and International operations due to phased adjustments of the airports' funding mechanism. Therefore, costs related to the modernization program will have a greater impact on our operations as compared to our competitors, who do not have significant Neighbor Island operations. We can offer no assurance that we will be successful in offsetting these cost increases through other cost reductions or increases in our revenue and, therefore, can offer no assurance that our future financial results will not be negatively affected by them.. Our operations may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate facilities and infrastructure at airports within the State of Hawai'i.. We must be able to maintain and/or obtain adequate gates, maintenance capacity, office space, operations areas, and ticketing facilities at the airports within the State of Hawai'i to be able to operate our existing and proposed flight schedules.  Failure to maintain such facilities and infrastructure may adversely impact our operations and financial performance.. Our business is subject to substantial seasonal and cyclical volatility.. Our results of operations reflect the impact of seasonal volatility primarily due to passenger leisure and holiday travel patterns. As Hawai'i is a popular vacation destination, demand from North America, our largest source of visitors, is typically stronger during June, July, August and December and considerably weaker at other times of the year. Because of fluctuations in our. 13. Table of Contents. results from seasonality, operating results for a historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period and operating results for an interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year.. Terrorist attacks or international hostilities, or the fear of terrorist attacks or hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect us and the airline industry.. Terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks, hostilities or act of war, could adversely affect the airline industry, including us, and could result in a significant decrease in demand for air travel, increased security costs, increased insurance costs covering war-related risks, and increased flight operational loss due to cancellations and delays. Any future terrorist attacks or the implementation of additional security-related fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and on the airline industry in general.. The airline industry is subject to extensive government regulation, new regulations, and taxes which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory requirements that result in significant costs. New, and modifications to existing, laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates, and charges imposed by domestic and foreign governments have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations, restrict operations or reduce revenue. The FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures. Some FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspections, and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. A failure to be in compliance, or a modification, suspension or revocation of any of our DOT/FAA authorizations or certificates, would have a material adverse impact on our operations.. We cannot predict the impact that laws or regulations may have on our operations, nor can we ensure that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect our business. Further, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain necessary governmental approvals. Once obtained, operating permits are subject to modification and revocation by the issuing agencies. Compliance with these and any future regulatory requirements could require us to incur significant capital and operating expenditures.. In addition to extensive government regulations, the airline industry is dependent on certain services provided by government agencies (DOT, FAA, CBP, TSA, etc.). Furthermore, because of significantly higher security and other costs incurred by airports since September 11, 2001, many airports have significantly increased their rates and charges to airlines, including us, and may do so again in the future.. The airline industry is required to comply with various environmental laws and regulations, which could inhibit our ability to operate and could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Many aspects of airlines' operations are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local, and foreign laws protecting the environment. U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on us include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Act and the Compensation and Liability Act. Compliance with these and other environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures, and violations can lead to significant fines and penalties. Governments globally are increasingly focusing on the environmental impact caused by the consumption of fossil fuels and as a result have proposed or enacted legislation which may increase the cost of providing airline service or restrict its provision. We expect the focus on environmental matters to increase.. Concern about climate change and greenhouse gases may result in additional regulation of aircraft emissions in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, other legislative or regulatory action to regulate greenhouse gas emissions is possible. At this time, we cannot predict whether any such legislation or regulation would apportion costs between one or more jurisdictions in which we operate flights. We are monitoring and evaluating the potential impact of such legislative and regulatory developments.. In addition to direct costs, such regulation may have a greater effect on the airline industry through increases in fuel costs. The impact to us and our industry from such actions is likely to be adverse and could be significant, particularly if regulators were to conclude that emissions from commercial aircraft cause significant harm to the atmosphere or have a greater impact on climate change than other industries.. 14. Table of Contents. Our operations may be adversely affected by our expansion into non-U.S. jurisdictions and the related laws and regulations to which we are subject.. The expansion of our operations into non-U.S. jurisdictions has expanded the scope of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, both domestically and internationally. Compliance with the laws and regulations of foreign jurisdictions and the restrictions on operations that these laws, regulations or other government actions may impose could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenue.  For example, a number of our destinations in Asia have been revising their privacy and consumer laws and regulations.  Failure to comply with these evolving laws or regulations could result in significant penalties, criminal charges, costs to defend in a foreign jurisdiction, restrictions on operations and reputational damage.  In addition, we operate flights on international routes regulated by treaties and related agreements between the U.S. and foreign governments, which are subject to change as they may be amended from time to time.  Modifications of these arrangements could result in an inability to obtain or retain take-off or landing slots for our routes, route authorization and necessary facilities.  Any limitations, additions or modifications to government treaties, agreements, regulations, laws or policies related to our international routes could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.. We may be party to litigation or regulatory action in the normal course of business or otherwise, which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results.. From time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal or regulatory proceedings, claims, government inspections, investigations or other legal matters, both domestically and in foreign jurisdictions.  Resolving or defending legal matters can take months or years.  The duration of such matters can be unpredictable with many variables that we do not control including adverse party or government responses. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to our operations.  In addition, an adverse resolution of a lawsuit, regulatory matter, investigation or other proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to change or restrict our operations or be subject to injunctive relief, significant compensatory damages, punitive damages, penalties, fines or disgorgement of profits, none of which may be covered by insurance.   We may have to pay out settlements that also may not be covered by insurance.  There can be no assurance that any of these payments or actions will not be material.  In addition, publicity of ongoing legal and regulatory matters may adversely affect our reputation.. Our insurance costs are susceptible to significant increases, and further increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have an adverse effect on our financial results.. We carry types and amounts of insurance customary in the airline industry, including coverage for general liability, passenger liability, property damage, aircraft loss or damage, baggage and cargo liability, and workers' compensation. We are required by the DOT to carry liability insurance on each of our aircraft. We currently maintain commercial airline insurance with a major group of independent insurers that regularly participate in world aviation insurance markets, including public liability insurance and coverage for losses resulting from the physical destruction or damage to our aircraft. However, there can be no assurance that the amount of such coverage will not change or that we will not bear substantial losses from accidents or damage to, or loss of, aircraft or other property due to other factors such as natural disasters. We could incur substantial claims resulting from an accident or damage to, or loss of, aircraft or other property due to other factors such as natural disasters in excess of related insurance coverage that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. FLEET AND FLEET-RELATED RISKS. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft, aircraft engines and parts.. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers (e.g. Airbus, Boeing, Rolls Royce, etc.) for aircraft, aircraft engines, and aircraft-related items. As a result, we are vulnerable to any problems associated with the supply of those aircraft and parts which could result in increased parts and maintenance costs in future years.. Our agreements to purchase Airbus A321neo aircraft and A330-800neo aircraft represent significant future financial commitments and operating costs.. As of December 31, 2017, we had the following firm order commitments and purchase rights for aircraft:Aircraft Type Firm Orders   Purchase Rights   Expected Delivery Dates A321neo aircraft 14     9     Between 2018 and 2020 A330-800neo aircraft 6     6     Between 2019 and 2021. 15. Table of Contents. We have made substantial pre-delivery payments for Airbus aircraft under existing purchase agreements and are required to continue these pre-delivery payments as well as make payments for the balance of the purchase price through delivery of each aircraft. These commitments substantially increase our future capital spending requirements and may require us to increase our level of debt in future years. In 2018, we have significant obligations in order to fund our current aircraft orders and we are currently evaluating our options to finance these orders via our operating cash flows coupled with debt financing.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms, or at all.. Delays in scheduled aircraft deliveries or other loss of fleet capacity may adversely impact our operations and financial results.. The success of our business depends on, among other things, the ability to effectively operate a certain number and type of aircraft. As noted above, we have contractual commitments to purchase and integrate additional Airbus aircraft into our fleet. If for any reason we are unable to secure deliveries of the Airbus aircraft on the contractually scheduled delivery dates and successfully introduce these aircraft into our fleet, then our business, operations, and financial performance could be negatively impacted. For example, we experienced delays of three to four months for the initial three A321neo deliveries, which were initially scheduled to be delivered in the third quarter of 2017. Delays in scheduled aircraft deliveries or our failure to integrate newly purchased Airbus aircraft into our fleet as planned may require us to utilize our existing fleet longer than expected. Such extensions may require us to operate existing aircraft beyond the point at which it is economically optimal to retire them, resulting in increased maintenance costs.. We may never realize the full value of our long-lived assets, resulting in impairment and other related charges that may negatively impact our financial position and results of operations.. Economic and intrinsic triggers, which include extreme fuel price volatility, an uncertain economic and credit environment, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows, as well as other uncertainties, may cause us to record material impairments of our long-lived assets. We could be subject to impairment charges in the future that could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations in future periods.. COMMON STOCK RISKS. Our share price is subject to fluctuations and stockholders could have difficulty trading shares.. The market price of our stock is influenced by many factors, many of which are outside of our control, and include the following:. • operating results and financial condition;. • changes in the competitive environment in which we operate;. • fuel price volatility including the availability of fuel;. • announcements concerning our competitors including bankruptcy filings, mergers, restructurings or acquisitions by other airlines;. • increases or changes in government regulation;. • general and industry specific market conditions;. • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and. • sales of our common stock or other actions by investors with significant shareholdings.. In recent years the stock market has experienced volatile price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, may affect the price of our common stock.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against a company following periods of volatility in the company's stock price. This type of litigation, if filed against us, could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. In addition, the future sale of a substantial number of shares of common stock by us or by our existing. 16. Table of Contents. stockholders may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that the trading price of our common stock will remain at or near its current level.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a change of control, which could materially adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make it difficult to remove our Board of Directors and management, and may discourage or delay a change of control, which could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include, among others:. • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, series of undesignated preferred stock, or rights to acquire preferred stock, that could dilute the interest of, or impair the voting power of, holders of our common stock or could also be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control;. • advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders' meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors;. • the ability of our Board of Directors to fill vacancies on the board;. • a prohibition against stockholders taking action by written consent;. • a prohibition against stockholders calling special meetings of stockholders; and. • super-majority voting requirements to modify or amend specified provisions of our certificate of incorporation.. Our certificate of incorporation includes a provision limiting voting and ownership by non-U.S. citizens and our bylaws include a provision specifying an exclusive forum for stockholder disputes.. To comply with restrictions imposed by federal law on foreign ownership of U.S. airlines, our certificate of incorporation restricts voting of shares of our common stock by non-U.S. citizens. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the failure of non-U.S. citizens to register their shares on a separate stock record, which we refer to as the \"foreign stock record,\" would result in a suspension of their voting rights in the event that the aggregate foreign ownership of the outstanding common stock exceeds the foreign ownership restrictions imposed by federal law.. Our certificate of incorporation further provides that no shares of our common stock will be registered on the foreign stock record if the amount so registered would exceed the foreign ownership restrictions imposed by federal law. If it is determined that the amount registered in the foreign stock record exceeds the foreign ownership restrictions imposed by federal law, shares will be removed from the foreign stock record in reverse chronological order based on the date of registration therein, until the number of shares registered therein does not exceed the foreign ownership restrictions imposed by federal law. As of December 31, 2017, we believe we were in compliance with the foreign ownership rules.. Our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or, if such court lacks jurisdiction, any other state or federal court located in the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of us; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or our certificate of incorporation or bylaws (as each may be amended or restated from time to time); or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Accordingly, stockholders may be limited in the forum in which they are able to pursue legal actions against us.. We cannot guarantee that we will repurchase our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program or continue to pay dividends on our common stock.. Our intent to continue to repurchase our shares pursuant to our stock repurchase program and to continue to pay quarterly dividends is subject to capital availability, market and economic conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other relevant factors. The stock repurchase program may be limited, suspended, or discontinued at any time without prior notice.. 17. Table of Contents. In October 2017, our Board of Directors commenced our quarterly cash dividend program.  In February 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.12 per share payable on February 28, 2018, to stockholders of record as of February 14, 2018. We cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to declare dividends for any fixed period, and the payment of dividends may be suspended or adjusted at any time at our discretion. We will evaluate, on a quarterly basis, the amount and timing of future dividends based on our operating results, financial condition, capital requirements, and general business conditions.. LIQUIDITY RISKS. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further information regarding our liquidity.. Our financial liquidity could be adversely affected by credit market conditions.. Our business requires access to capital markets to finance equipment purchases, including aircraft, and to provide liquidity in seasonal or cyclical periods of weaker revenue generation. In particular, we will face specific funding requirements with respect to our obligation under purchase agreements with Airbus to acquire new aircraft. We may finance these upcoming aircraft deliveries; however, the unpredictability of global credit market conditions may adversely affect the availability of financing or may result in unfavorable terms and conditions. We can offer no assurance that the financing we need will be available when required or that the economic terms on which it is available will not adversely affect our financial condition. If we cannot obtain financing or we cannot obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Our debt could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and include covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $433 million in outstanding debt. Our debt and related covenants could:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other operational purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our debt, our ability to borrow additional funds;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors and competitors with debt agreements on more favorable terms than us; and. • adversely affect our ability to secure additional financing in the future on acceptable terms or at all, which would impact our ability to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general purpose needs.. These agreements require us to meet certain covenants. If we breach any of these covenants we could be in a default under these facilities, which could cause our outstanding obligations under these facilities to accelerate and become due and payable immediately, and could also cause us to default under our other debt or lease obligations and lead to an acceleration of the obligations related to such other debt or lease obligations. The existence of such a default could also preclude us from borrowing funds under our credit facilities.. Our ability to comply with the provisions of financing agreements can be affected by events beyond our control and a default under any such financing agreements if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. In the event our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay these obligations or to refinance our debt obligations, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We are required to maintain reserves under our credit card processing agreements which could adversely affect our financial and business operations.. Under our bank-issued credit card processing agreements, certain proceeds from advance ticket sales is held back to serve as collateral to cover any possible chargebacks or other disputed charges that may occur. These holdbacks totaled $1.0 million as of December 31, 2017. In the event of a material adverse change in our business, the holdback could incrementally increase to. 18. Table of Contents. an amount up to 100% of the applicable credit card activity for all unflown flights, which would also cause an increase in the level of restricted cash. If we are unable to obtain a waiver, or otherwise mitigate the increase in restricted cash, it could adversely affect our liquidity and also cause a covenant violation under other debt or lease obligations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition."
