[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should consider carefully the following risks when reading the information, including the financial information, contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We operate in a highly competitive environment and face significant competition and price pressure.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete with producers, manufacturers, distributors and sales agents offering products equivalent to substantially all of the products we offer. Competition is based on several key criteria, including product price, product performance, product quality, product availability and security of supply, breadth of product offerings, geographic reach, responsiveness of product development in cooperation with customers, technical expertise and customer service. Many of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater financial resources, more product offerings and a broader geographic reach. As a result, these competitors may be able to offer a broader array of products to a larger geographic area and may be better able than us to withstand changes in conditions within our industry, changes in the prices and availability of raw materials and changes in general economic conditions as well as be able to introduce innovative products that reduce demand for or the profit of our products. Additionally, competitors' pricing decisions could compel us to decrease our prices, which could adversely affect our margins and profitability. Our ability to maintain or increase our profitability would be dependent upon our ability to offset competitive decreases in the prices and margins of our products by improving production efficiency, investing in infrastructure to reduce freight costs, identifying and selling higher margin products, providing higher levels of technical expertise and customer service, and improving existing products through innovation and research and development. If we are unable to maintain our profitability or competitive position, we could lose market share to our competitors and experience reduced profitability.. Fluctuations in the prices and availability of our raw materials, which may be cyclical in nature, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the margins we receive on sales of our products.. We experience regular and recurring fluctuations in the pricing of our raw materials. Those fluctuations can be significant and occur rapidly. The cyclicality of commodity markets, such as caustic soda, primarily results from changes in the balance between supply and demand and the level of general economic activity. We cannot predict whether the markets for our raw materials will favorably impact or negatively impact the margins we can realize.. Our principal chemical raw materials are generally purchased under supply contracts. The prices we pay under these contracts generally lag the market prices of the underlying raw material and the cost of inventory we have on hand, particularly inventories of our bulk commodity chemicals where we have significant volumes stored at our facilities, generally will lag the current market pricing of such inventory. The pricing within our supply contracts generally adjusts quarterly or monthly. While we attempt to maintain competitive pricing and stable margin dollars, the potential variance in our cost of inventory from the current market pricing can cause significant volatility in our margins realized. We do not engage in futures or other derivatives contracts to hedge against fluctuations in future prices. We may enter into sales contracts where the selling prices for our products are fixed for a period of time, exposing us to volatility in raw materials prices that we acquire on a spot market or short-term contractual basis. We attempt to pass commodity pricing changes to our customers, but we may be unable to or be delayed in doing so. Our inability to pass through price increases or any limitation or delay in our passing through price increases could adversely affect our profit margins.. We are also dependent upon the availability of our raw materials. In the event that raw materials are in short supply or unavailable, raw material suppliers may extend lead times or limit or cut off supplies. As a result, we may not be able to supply or manufacture products for some or all of our customers. Constraints on the supply or delivery of critical raw materials could disrupt our operations and adversely affect the performance of our businesses.. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions and by the cyclical nature of many of the industries we serve, which could cause significant fluctuations in our sales volumes and results.. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions. A decline in general economic or business conditions in the industries served by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Although we sell to areas traditionally considered non-cyclical, such as water treatment, food products and health and nutritional ingredients, many of our customers are in businesses that are cyclical in nature, such as the industrial manufacturing and energy industries which include the ethanol and agriculture industries. Downturns in these industries could adversely affect our sales and our financial results by affecting demand for and pricing of our products.. 4. Changes in our customers' needs or failure of our products to meet customers' specifications could adversely affect our sales and profitability.. Our products are used for a broad range of applications by our customers. Changes in our customers' product needs or processes, or reductions in demand for their end products, may enable our customers to reduce or eliminate consumption of the products that we provide. Customers may also find alternative materials or processes that no longer require our products. Consequently, it is important that we develop new products to replace the sales of products that mature and decline in use.. Our products provide important performance attributes to our customers' products. If our products fail to meet the customers' specifications, perform in a manner inconsistent with the customers' expectations or have a shorter useful life than required, a customer could seek replacement of the product or damages for costs incurred as a result of the product failure. A successful claim or series of claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could result in a loss of one or more customers. Reductions in demand for our products could adversely affect our sales and financial results and result in facility closures.. Our business is subject to hazards common to chemical businesses, any of which could interrupt our production and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business is subject to hazards common to chemical manufacturing, blending, storage, handling and transportation, including explosions, fires, severe weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruptions, traffic accidents involving our delivery vehicles, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other risks. These hazards could cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental contamination. In addition, the occurrence of material operating problems at any of our facilities due to any of these hazards may make it impossible for us to make sales to our customers and may result in a negative public or political reaction. Many of our facilities are near significant residential populations which increases the risk of negative public or political reaction should an environmental issue occur and could lead to adverse zoning or other regulatory actions that could limit our ability to operate our business in those locations. Accordingly, these hazards and their consequences could have a material adverse effect on our operations as a whole, including our results of operations and cash flows, both during and after the period of operational difficulties.. We are highly dependent upon transportation infrastructure to ship and receive our products and delays in these shipments could adversely affect our results of operations.. Although we maintain a number of owned trucks and trailers, we rely heavily upon transportation provided by third parties (including common carriers, barge companies, rail companies and trans-ocean cargo companies) to deliver products to us and to our customers. Our access to third-party transportation is not guaranteed, and we may be unable to transport our products in a timely manner, or at all, in certain circumstances, or at economically attractive rates. Disruptions in transportation are common, are often out of our control, and can happen suddenly and without warning.  Rail limitations, such as limitations in rail capacity, availability of railcars and adverse weather conditions have disrupted or delayed rail shipments in the past and we expect they will continue into the future.  Barge shipments are delayed or impossible under certain circumstances, including during times of high or low water levels, when waterways are frozen and when locks and dams are inoperable.  Truck transportation has been negatively impacted by a number of factors, including limited availability of qualified drivers and equipment, and limitations on drivers' hours of service. The volumes handled by, and operating challenges at, ocean ports have at times been volatile and can delay the receipt of goods, or cause the cost of shipping goods to be more expensive. Our failure to ship or receive products in a timely and efficient manner could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Environmental, health and safety, transportation and storage laws and regulations cause us to incur substantial costs and may subject us to future liabilities and risks.. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the management, storage, transportation and disposal of chemicals and wastes; product regulation; air water and soil contamination; and the investigation and cleanup of any spills or releases that may result from our management, handling, storage, sale, or transportation of chemicals and other products. The nature of our business exposes us to risks of liability under these laws and regulations. Ongoing compliance with such laws and regulations is an important consideration for us and we invest substantial capital and incur significant operating costs in our compliance efforts. In addition, societal concerns regarding the safety of chemicals in commerce and their potential impact on the environment have resulted in a growing trend towards increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection regulations. These concerns have led to, and could continue to result in, more stringent regulatory intervention by governmental authorities. In addition, these concerns could influence public. 5. perceptions, impact the commercial viability of the products we sell and increase the costs to comply with increasingly complex regulations, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we operate a fleet of more than 150 vehicles, primarily in our Water Treatment Group, which are highly regulated, including by the U.S. Department of Transportation (\"DOT\").  The DOT governs transportation matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, including the necessary permits to conduct our businesses, equipment operation, and safety. We are audited periodically by the DOT to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. If we were found to be out of compliance, the DOT could severely restrict or otherwise impact our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations as a whole, including our results of operations and cash flows.. If we violate applicable laws or regulations, in addition to being required to correct such violations, we could be held liable in administrative, civil or criminal proceedings for substantial fines and other sanctions that could disrupt, limit or halt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations as a whole, including our results of operations and cash flows. Liabilities associated with the investigation and cleanup of releases of hazardous substances, as well as personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages arising out of such releases of hazardous substances, may be imposed in many situations without regard to violations of laws or regulations or other fault, and may also be imposed jointly and severally (so that a responsible party may be held liable for more than its share of the losses involved, or even the entire loss). Such liabilities can be difficult to identify and the extent of any such liabilities can be difficult to predict. We use, and in the past have used, hazardous substances at many of our facilities, and have generated, and continue to generate, hazardous wastes at a number of our facilities. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to claims relating to exposure to hazardous materials and the associated liabilities may be material.. Environmental problems at one of our facilities could result in significant unexpected costs.. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations regarding the ownership of real property and the operations conducted on real property. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may own or operate real property or may have arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances at a property and, therefore, may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances released on or in our property or disposed of by us, as well as certain other potential costs which could relate to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property).  Such liability may be imposed whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of these hazardous or toxic substances. Further, future changes in environmental laws or regulations may require additional investment in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs in the future. The cost of investigation, remediation or removal of such substances may be substantial.. In the conduct of our operations, we have handled and do handle materials that are considered hazardous, toxic or volatile under federal, state and local laws. The accidental release of such products cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, we operate or own facilities located on or near real property that was formerly owned and operated by others. These properties were used in ways that involved hazardous materials. Contaminates may migrate from, within or through any such property, which may give rise to claims against us. Third parties who are responsible for contamination may not have funds, or may not make funds available when needed, to pay remediation costs imposed upon us jointly with them under environmental laws and regulations.. We are aware that soil and groundwater contamination exists on one of our facilities.  The primary contaminate of concern is trichloroethylene. In fiscal 2018, we reserved $0.6 million for estimated expenses related to remediating this contamination.  Given the many uncertainties involved in assessing environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient. Increases in these estimated environmental expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our food, pharmaceutical and nutritional products are subject to government regulation, both in the United States and abroad, which could increase our costs significantly and limit or prevent the sale of such products.. The manufacture, packaging, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and sale of our food, pharmaceutical and nutritional products are subject to regulation by numerous national and local governmental agencies in the United States and other countries. The primary regulatory bodies in the United States are the Food and Drug Administration (the \"FDA\"), the United States Department of Agriculture and the Federal Trade Commission, and we are also subject to similar regulators in other countries. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may result in various types of penalties or fines. These include injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines and criminal prosecutions. Individual states also regulate dietary supplements. A state may interpret claims or products presumptively valid under federal law as illegal under that state's regulations.  Approvals or licensing may be conditioned on reformulation of products or may be unavailable with respect to certain products or product ingredients. Any of. 6. these government agencies, as well as legislative bodies, can change existing regulations, or impose new ones, or could take aggressive measures, causing or contributing to a variety of negative consequences, including:. • requirements for the reformulation of certain or all products to meet new standards,. • the recall or discontinuance of certain or all products,. • additional record-keeping requirements,. • expanded documentation of the properties of certain or all products,. • expanded or different labeling,. • adverse event tracking and reporting, and. • additional scientific substantiation.. In particular, the FDA's current good manufacturing practices (\"GMPs\") describe policies and procedures designed to ensure that nutraceuticals, pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements are produced in a quality manner, do not contain contaminants or impurities, and are accurately labeled and cover the manufacturing, packaging, labeling and storing of supplements, with requirements for quality control, design and construction of manufacturing plants, testing of ingredients and final products, record keeping, and complaints processes. Those who manufacture, package or store dietary supplements must comply with current GMPs. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with current GMPs, the FDA may take enforcement action against us or our suppliers.. Any or all of the potential negative consequences described above could have a material adverse effect on us or substantially increase the cost of doing business in this area. There can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change or that such regulatory environment, or any specific action taken against us, will not result in a material adverse effect on us.. Our businesses expose us to potential product liability claims and recalls, which could adversely affect our financial condition and performance.. The repackaging, blending, mixing and distribution of products by us, including chemical products and products used in food or food ingredients or with medical, pharmaceutical or dietary supplement applications, involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures and related adverse publicity, including, without limitation, claims for exposure to our products, spills or escape of our products, personal injuries, food-related claims and property damage or environmental claims. A product liability claim, judgment or recall against our customers could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures for us, affect consumer confidence in our products and divert management's attention from other responsibilities. Although we maintain product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the type or level of coverage is adequate or that we will be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. A product recall or a partially or completely uninsured judgment against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Demand for our food and nutritional products is highly dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety and quality of our products, our customers' products as well as similar products distributed by other companies, and adverse publicity and negative public perception regarding particular ingredients or products or the nutraceuticals industry in general could limit our ability to increase revenue and grow that portion of our business.. Purchasing decisions made by consumers of products that contain our ingredients may be affected by adverse publicity or negative public perception regarding particular ingredients or products or the nutraceuticals industry in general. This negative public perception may include publicity regarding the legality or quality of particular ingredients or products in general or of other companies or our products or ingredients specifically. Negative public perception may also arise from regulatory investigations, regardless of whether those investigations involve us. We are highly dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety and quality of products that contain our ingredients as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Thus, the mere publication of reports asserting that such products may be harmful could have a material adverse effect on us, regardless of whether these reports are scientifically supported. Publicity related to dietary supplements may also result in increased regulatory scrutiny of our industry. Adverse publicity may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There can be no assurance of future favorable scientific results and media attention or of the absence of unfavorable or inconsistent findings.. 7. Our Water Treatment Group and our agricultural product sales within our Industrial Group are subject to seasonality and weather conditions, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our Water Treatment Group has historically experienced higher sales during April to September, primarily due to a seasonal increase in chemicals used by municipal water treatment facilities. Our agricultural product sales are also seasonal, primarily corresponding with the planting and harvesting seasons. Demand in both of these areas is also affected by weather conditions, as either higher or lower than normal precipitation or temperatures may affect water usage and the timing and the amount of consumption of our products. We cannot assure you that seasonality or fluctuating weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures.. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance, but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our businesses and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and limits on the liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits or outside the coverage of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental remediation and product liability. In addition, from time to time, various types of insurance for companies in the chemical or food and nutritional products industry have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, have not been available at all. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain.. We are party to a credit facility, and failure to comply with the covenants thereunder may have a material adverse effect.. We are party to a credit agreement (the \"Credit Agreement\") with U.S. Bank National Association and other lenders from time to time party thereto (collectively, the \"Lenders\"), which included senior secured credit facilities (the \"Credit Facility\") totaling $165.0 million, consisting of (i) a $100.0 million senior secured term loan credit facility (the \"Term Loan Facility\") and (ii) a $65.0 million senior secured revolving loan credit facility (the \"Revolving Loan Facility\"). The Revolving Loan Facility includes a $5.0 million letter of credit subfacility and $8.0 million swingline subfacility. Loans under the Term Loan Facility are to be repaid in quarterly installments on the last day of each fiscal quarter, with $5.0 million paid in year one, $7.5 million paid in year two, and $10.0 million to be paid in years three through five. As of April 1, 2018, we had $85.0 million outstanding under the Term Loan Facility and $16.0 million outstanding under the Revolving Loan Facility.  The remaining outstanding balance on these credit facilities will be repaid in full after five years.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on the Credit Facility, we will be in default. We are also required to comply with several financial covenants under the Credit Agreement. Our ability to comply with such financial covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, which could result in a default under the Credit Agreement; such default may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows.. The Credit Agreement also contains other customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, dispose of significant assets, make certain investments, including any acquisitions other than permitted acquisitions, make certain payments, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, grant liens on its assets or rate management transactions, subject to certain limitations. These restrictions may adversely affect our business.. Impairment to the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and consolidated results of operations.. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquired businesses over the fair value of identifiable tangible net assets and identifiable intangible assets purchased.  Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment, and is tested for impairment more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.  Our annual test for impairment is as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter, or January 1, 2018 for fiscal 2018.  Goodwill impairment testing is at the reporting unit level.  For our Industrial and Water Treatment reporting units, we performed an analysis of qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.  If that qualitative analysis indicates that an impairment may exist, then we would calculate the amount of the impairment by comparing the fair value of the assets and liabilities to the fair value of the reporting unit.  For our Health and Nutrition reporting unit, we performed a quantitative goodwill impairment analysis, which required us to estimate the fair value of this reporting unit and compare the fair value to the reporting unit's carrying value.  The fair value of the reporting unit in excess of the value of the assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of the goodwill.  If this amount is less than the carrying amount of goodwill, impairment is recognized for the difference.  As of January 1, 2018,. 8. the carrying value of our Health and Nutrition reporting unit exceeded its fair value by $39.1 million, requiring us to record an impairment of goodwill for that amount.  A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indication of impairment exists.  Factors may include, among others:  a significant decline in our expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in the business climate; unanticipated competition; and slower growth rates.  An adverse change in these factors may have a significant impact on the recoverability of the net assets recorded, and any resulting impairment charge in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations.. We evaluate the useful lives of our intangible assets to determine if they are definite- or indefinite-lived. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), and the expected lives of other related groups of assets.. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. Should the value of these assets become impaired, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations.. If we are unable to retain key personnel or attract new skilled personnel, it could have an adverse impact on our businesses.. Because of the specialized and technical nature of our businesses, our future performance is dependent on the continued service of, and on our ability to attract and retain, qualified management, scientific, technical and support personnel. The unanticipated departure of key members of our management team could have an adverse impact on our business.. We may not be able to successfully consummate future acquisitions or integrate acquisitions into our business, which could result in unanticipated expenses and losses.. As part of our business growth strategy, we have acquired businesses and may pursue acquisitions in the future. Our ability to pursue this strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. The expense incurred in consummating acquisitions, the time it takes to integrate an acquisition or our failure to integrate businesses successfully could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions.. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. The risks associated with the integration of acquisitions include potential disruption of our ongoing businesses and distraction of management, unforeseen claims, liabilities, adjustments, charges and write-offs, difficulty in conforming the acquired business' standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations, and challenges arising from the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of the expanded operations.. Our businesses are subject to risks stemming from natural disasters or other extraordinary events outside of our control, which could interrupt our production and adversely affect our results of operations.. Natural disasters have the potential of interrupting our operations and damaging our properties, which could adversely affect our businesses. Flooding of the Mississippi River has temporarily shifted the Company's terminal operations out of its buildings three times since the spring of 2010. We can give no assurance that flooding or other natural disasters will not recur or that there will not be material damage or interruption to our operations in the future from such disasters.. Chemical-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets in the United States. Federal law imposes site security requirements, specifically on chemical facilities, which have increased our overhead expenses. Federal regulations have also been adopted to increase the security of the transportation of hazardous chemicals in the United States. We ship and receive materials that are classified as hazardous and we believe we have met these requirements, but additional federal and local regulations that limit the distribution of hazardous materials are being considered. Bans on movement of hazardous materials through certain cities could adversely affect the efficiency of our logistical operations. Broader restrictions on hazardous material movements could lead to additional investment and could change where and what products we provide.. The occurrence of extraordinary events, including future terrorist attacks and the outbreak or escalation of hostilities, cannot be predicted, but their occurrence can be expected to negatively affect the economy in general, and specifically the markets for our products. The resulting damage from a direct attack on our assets, or assets used by us, could include loss of life and property. 9. damage. In addition, available insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of the damage incurred or, if available, may be prohibitively expensive.. We may not be able to renew our leases of land where four of our operations facilities reside.. We lease the land where our three main terminals are located and where another significant manufacturing plant is located. We do not have guaranteed lease renewal options and may not be able to renew our leases in the future. Our current lease renewal periods extend out to 2023, 2028, 2029 and 2034. The failure to secure extended lease terms on any one of these facilities may have a material adverse impact on our business, as they are where a portion of our chemicals are manufactured and where the majority of our bulk chemicals are stored. While we can make no assurances, based on historical experience and anticipated future needs, we intend to extend these leases and believe that we will be able to renew our leases as the renewal periods expire. If we are unable to renew three of our leases (two relate to terminals and one to manufacturing) any property remaining on the land becomes the property of the lessor, and the lessor has the option to either maintain the property or remove the property at our expense.  The fourth lease provides that we turn any property remaining on the land over to the lessor for them to maintain or remove at their expense.  The cost to relocate our operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition."
