[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to Our Business. We are subject to inherent risks of the maintenance, repair and operations market and the non-residential and residential construction markets, including risks related to general economic conditions.. Demand for our products and services depends to a significant degree on spending in our markets. The level of activity in our markets depends on a variety of factors that we cannot control.. Historically, both new housing starts and residential remodeling have decreased in slow economic periods. In addition, residential construction activity can impact the level of non-residential construction activity. Other factors impacting the level of activity in the non-residential and residential construction markets include:. <U+0095> changes in interest rates;    <U+0095> unemployment rates;    <U+0095> high foreclosure rates and unsold/foreclosure inventory;    <U+0095> unsold new housing inventory;    <U+0095> availability of financing (including the impact of disruption in the mortgage markets);    <U+0095> adverse changes in industrial economic outlook;    <U+0095> a decrease in the affordability of homes;    <U+0095> vacancy rates;    <U+0095> capacity utilization;    <U+0095> capital spending;    <U+0095> commercial investment;    <U+0095> corporate profitability;    <U+0095> local, state and federal government regulation; and    <U+0095> shifts in populations away from the markets that we serve.. In the maintenance, repair and operations market, the level of activity depends largely on the number of units and occupancy rates within multifamily, hospitality, healthcare and institutional facilities markets. Because both of our markets are sensitive to changes in the economy, downturns (or lack of substantial improvement) in the economy in any region in which we operate have adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we distribute a number of our products to contractors in connection with non-residential building, residential and industrial construction projects. While we operate in many markets in the United States and Canada, our business is particularly impacted by changes in the economies of California, Texas and Florida, which represented approximately 26.5%, 11.6% and 8.9%, respectively, of our Net sales for fiscal 2017.. In addition, the markets in which we compete are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide, including availability of credit, interest rates, fluctuations in capital, credit and mortgage markets and business and consumer confidence. Adverse developments in global financial markets and general business and economic conditions, including through recession, downturn or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including our ability and the ability of our customers and suppliers to access capital. There was a significant decline in economic growth, both in. 15. Table of Contents. the United States and worldwide, that began in the second half of 2007 and continued through 2009. In addition, volatility and disruption in the capital markets during that period reached unprecedented levels, with stock markets falling dramatically and credit becoming very expensive or unavailable to many companies without regard to those companies' underlying financial strength. As a result of these developments, many lenders and institutional investors reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Although there has since been stabilization and improvement in the general economy and the industries and markets in which we operate, there can be no guarantee that any improvement in these areas will continue or be sustained.. We have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by the decline in the new residential construction market from its peak in 2005.. Our business is dependent, in part, upon the new residential construction market. The homebuilding industry has undergone a significant decline from its peak in 2005. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, actual single family housing starts in the U.S. during 2017 increased 9% from 2016 levels, but remain 51% below their peak in 2005. The multi-year downturn in the homebuilding industry has resulted in a substantial reduction in demand for our products and services, which in turn has had a significant adverse effect on our business and operating results during fiscal years 2008 to 2017, as compared to peak levels. In addition, during this period the mortgage markets experienced disruption and reduced availability of mortgages for potential homebuyers due to more restrictive standards to qualify for mortgages, including with respect to new home construction loans. Although the new residential construction market has improved in recent years, there can be no assurance this trend will continue.. We cannot predict the duration of the current housing industry market conditions, or the timing or strength of any future recovery of housing activity in our markets. We also cannot provide any assurances that the homebuilding industry will recover to historical levels, or that the operational strategies we have implemented to address the current market conditions will be successful. Weakness in the new residential construction market could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, because of these factors, there may be fluctuations in our operating results, and the results for any historical period may not be indicative of results for any future period.. The non-residential building construction market could experience a downturn which could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations.. Our business is dependent, in part, on the non-residential building construction market and a slowdown of or volatility in the United States economy in general could have an adverse effect on our business units. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, actual non-residential building construction put-in-place in the U.S. during 2017 increased 2% from 2016 levels, but remains 5% lower than 2008 levels. From time to time, our business units that serve the non-residential building construction market have also been adversely affected in various parts of the country by declines in non-residential building construction starts due to, among other things, changes in tax laws affecting the real estate industry, high interest rates and the level of residential construction activity. Continued uncertainty about current economic conditions will continue to pose a risk to our business units as participants in this industry may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a continued material negative effect on the demand for our products and services.. We cannot predict the duration of the current market conditions or the timing or strength of any future recovery of non-residential building construction activity in our markets. Weakness in the non-residential building construction market would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, because of these factors, there may be. 16. Table of Contents. fluctuations in our operating results, and the results for any historical period may not be indicative of results for any future period.. Residential renovation and improvement activity levels may not return to historic levels which may negatively impact our business, liquidity and results of operations.. Our business units rely on residential renovation and improvement (including repair and remodeling) activity levels. Unlike most previous cyclical declines in new home construction in which we did not experience comparable declines in our home improvement business unit, the most recent economic decline adversely affected our home improvement business unit as well. Management believes that residential improvement project spending in the United States increased 6% in 2017, but remains 13% below its peak level in 2005. Elevated unemployment levels, mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates, limitations in the availability of mortgage and home improvement financing and lower housing turnover may continue to limit consumers' spending, particularly on discretionary items, and affect their confidence level leading to continued reduced spending on home improvement projects.. We cannot predict the timing or strength of a significant recovery in these markets. Depressed activity levels in consumer spending for home improvement and new home construction would adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operations and our financial position. Furthermore, economic weakness may cause unanticipated shifts in consumer preferences and purchasing practices and in the business models and strategies of our customers. Such shifts may alter the nature and prices of products demanded by the end consumer, and, in turn, our customers and could adversely affect our operating performance.. We may be unable to maintain profitability.. We have set goals to progressively improve our profitability over time by growing our sales, increasing our gross margin and reducing our expenses as a percentage of sales. For fiscal 2017, fiscal 2016, and fiscal 2015, we had net income of $970 million, $196 million, and $1,472 million, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our enhanced profitability goals. Factors that could significantly adversely affect our efforts to achieve these goals include, but are not limited to, the failure to:. <U+0095> grow our revenue through organic growth or through acquisitions;    <U+0095> improve our revenue mix by investing (including through acquisitions) in businesses that provide higher margins than we have been able to generate historically;    <U+0095> achieve improvements in purchasing or maintain or increase our rebates from vendors through our vendor consolidation and/or low-cost country initiatives;    <U+0095> improve our gross margins through the utilization of improved pricing practices and technology and sourcing savings;     <U+0095> maintain or reduce our overhead and support expenses as we grow;    <U+0095> effectively evaluate future inventory reserves;    <U+0095> collect monies owed to us from customers;    <U+0095> maintain relationships with our significant customers; and    <U+0095> integrate any businesses acquired.. Any of these failures or delays may adversely affect our ability to increase our profitability.. 17. Table of Contents. We may be required to take impairment charges relating to our operations which could impact our future operating results.. As of January 28, 2018, goodwill represented approximately 42% of our total assets. Goodwill is not amortized and is subject to impairment testing at least annually using a fair value based approach. The identification and measurement of impairment involves the estimation of the fair value of reporting units. The estimates of fair value of reporting units are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment and incorporate management assumptions about expected future cash flows and other valuation techniques. Future cash flows can be affected by changes in industry or market conditions among other things.. The recoverability of goodwill is evaluated at least annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit has more likely than not declined below its carrying value. Our annual impairment test resulted in no impairment of goodwill during fiscal 2017, fiscal 2016, or fiscal 2015.. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets, and we may be required to take goodwill or other asset impairment charges relating to certain of our reporting units and asset groups in the event we experience weakness in the non-residential and/or residential construction markets and/or the general U.S. economy. Similarly, certain company transactions could result in goodwill impairment charges being recorded. Any such non-cash charges would have an adverse effect on our financial results.. In the event of a general economic downturn in the United States, we may be required to close under-performing locations.. We may have to close under-performing branches from time to time as warranted by general economic conditions and/or weakness in the industries in which we operate. For example, during fiscal 2017, we closed certain branches and terminated employees as part of our on-going cost savings and profitability enhancement efforts. Any future facility closures could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We occupy most of our facilities under long-term non-cancelable leases. We may be unable to renew leases on favorable terms or at all. Also, if we close a facility, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease.. Most of our facilities are located in leased premises. Many of our current leases are non-cancelable and typically have terms ranging from 3 to 7 years, with options to renew for specified periods of time. We believe that leases we enter into in the future will likely be long-term and non-cancelable and have similar renewal options. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our current or future leases on favorable terms or at all which could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and on our results of operations. In addition, if we close or idle a facility, we generally remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which include, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Over the course of the last three fiscal years, we closed or idled facilities for which we remain liable on the lease obligations. Our obligation to continue making rental payments in respect of leases for closed or idled facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and fragmented, and demand for our products and services could decrease if we are not able to compete effectively.. The markets in which we operate are fragmented and highly competitive. Our competition includes other distributors and manufacturers that sell products directly to their respective customer bases and some of our customers that resell our products. To a limited extent, retailers of electrical fixtures and supplies, building materials, maintenance, repair and operations supplies and contractors' tools also. 18. Table of Contents. compete with us. We also expect that new competitors may develop over time as internet-based enterprises become more established and reliable and refine their service capabilities. Competition varies depending on product line, customer classification and geographic area.. We compete with many local, regional and, in several markets and product categories, other national distributors. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. No assurance can be given that we will be able to respond effectively to these competitive pressures. Increased competition by existing and future competitors could result in reductions in sales, prices, volumes and gross margins that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain our market share and gain market share from competitors.. Our competitors continue to consolidate, which could cause markets to become more competitive and could negatively impact our business.. Our competitors in the United States and Canada continue to consolidate. This consolidation is being driven by customer needs and supplier capabilities, which could cause markets to become more competitive as greater economies of scale are achieved by distributors, or as competitors with new business models are willing and able to operate with lower gross profit on select products. Customers are increasingly aware of the total costs of fulfillment and of the need to have consistent sources of supply at multiple locations. We believe these customer needs could result in fewer distributors as the remaining distributors become larger and more capable of being consistent sources of supply.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to take advantage effectively of this trend toward consolidation. The trend in our industry toward consolidation could make it more difficult for us to maintain operating margins and could also increase competition for our potential acquisition targets and result in higher purchase price multiples. Furthermore, as our industrial and construction customers face increased foreign competition and potentially lose business to foreign competitors or shift their operations overseas in an effort to reduce expenses, we may face increased difficulty in growing and maintaining our market share and growth prospects in these markets.. The loss of any of our significant customers could adversely affect our financial condition.. Our ten largest customers generated approximately 12.3% of our Net sales in fiscal 2017. We cannot guarantee that we will maintain or improve our relationships with these customers or that we will continue to supply these customers at historical levels. During the economic downturn, some of our customers reduced their operations. For example, some specialty construction customers exited or severely curtailed building activity in certain of our markets. There is no assurance that our customers will determine to increase their operations or return to historic levels. Slow economic recovery could continue to have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. In addition, consolidation among customers could also result in a loss of some of our present customers to our competitors. The loss of one or more of our significant customers, a significant customer's decision to purchase our products in significantly lower quantities than they have in the past or deterioration in our relationship with any of our significant customers could significantly affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Generally, our customers are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us. The contracts into which we have entered with most of our customers typically provide that we supply particular products or services for a certain period of time when and if ordered by the customer. Should our customers purchase our products in significantly lower quantities than they have in the past, such decreased purchases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. 19. Table of Contents. The majority of our Net sales are credit sales which are made primarily to customers whose ability to pay is dependent, in part, upon the economic strength of the industry and geographic areas in which they operate, and the failure to collect monies owed from customers could adversely affect our financial condition.. The majority of our Net sales volume in fiscal 2017 was facilitated through the extension of credit to our customers whose ability to pay is dependent, in part, upon the economic strength of the industry in the areas where they operate. Our business units offer credit to customers, either through unsecured credit that is based solely upon the creditworthiness of the customer, or secured credit for materials sold for a specific job where the security lies in lien rights associated with the material going into the job. The type of credit offered depends both on the financial strength of the customer and the nature of the business in which the customer is involved. End users, resellers and other non-contractor customers generally purchase more on unsecured credit than secured credit. The inability of our customers to pay off their credit lines in a timely manner, or at all, would adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Furthermore, our collections efforts with respect to non-paying or slow-paying customers could negatively impact our customer relations going forward.. Because we depend on the creditworthiness of certain of our customers, if the financial condition of our customers declines, our credit risk could increase. Significant contraction in our markets, coupled with tightened credit availability and financial institution underwriting standards, could adversely affect certain of our customers. Should one or more of our larger customers declare bankruptcy, it could adversely affect the collectability of our accounts receivable, bad debt reserves and net income.. We are subject to competitive pricing pressure from our customers.. Certain of our largest customers historically have exerted significant pressure on their outside suppliers to keep prices low because of their market share and their ability to leverage such market share in the highly fragmented building products supply industry. The economic downturn resulted in increased pricing pressures from our customers. If we are unable to generate sufficient cost savings to offset any price reductions, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected.. Future strategic transactions could impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows, and we may not achieve the acquisition component of our growth strategy.. We may pursue strategic transactions in the future, which could involve acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets. Any future strategic transaction could involve integration or implementation challenges, business disruption or other risks, or change our business profile significantly. Any inability on our part to successfully implement strategic transactions could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Any acquisition that we make may not provide us with the benefits that were anticipated when entering into such acquisition. Any future disposition transactions could also impact our business and may subject us to various risks, including failure to obtain appropriate value for the disposed businesses, post-closing claims being levied against us and disruption to our other businesses during the sale process or thereafter.. In addition, although acquisitions may continue to be a component of our growth strategy, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to grow our business through acquisitions as we have done historically or that any businesses acquired will perform in accordance with expectations or that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove to be correct. Future acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, an increase in interest expense and amortization expense and significant charges relative to integration costs. Our strategy could be impeded if we do not identify suitable acquisition candidates, and our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected if we overpay for acquisitions.. 20. Table of Contents. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including:. <U+0095> problems implementing disclosure controls and procedures for the newly acquired business;    <U+0095> unforeseen difficulties extending internal control over financial reporting and performing the required assessment at the newly acquired business;    <U+0095> potential adverse short-term effects on operating results through increased costs or otherwise;    <U+0095> diversion of management's attention and failure to recruit new, and retain existing, key personnel of the acquired business;     <U+0095> failure to successfully implement infrastructure, logistics and systems integration;    <U+0095> our business growth could outpace the capability of our systems; and    <U+0095> the risks inherent in the systems of the acquired business and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we may not be able to obtain financing necessary to complete acquisitions on attractive terms or at all.. A range of factors may make our quarterly revenues and earnings variable.. We have historically experienced, and in the future expect to continue to experience, variability in revenues and earnings on a quarterly basis. The factors expected to contribute to this variability include, among others: (i) the cyclical nature of some of the markets in which we compete, including the non-residential and residential construction markets, (ii) general economic conditions in the various local markets in which we compete, (iii) the pricing policies of our competitors, (iv) the production schedules of our customers and (v) the effects of the weather. These factors, among others, make it difficult to project our operating results on a consistent basis, which may affect the value of our securities.. The maintenance, repair and operations market and the non-residential and residential construction markets are seasonal and cyclical.. Although weather patterns affect our operating results throughout the year, adverse weather historically has reduced construction and maintenance and repair activity in our first and fourth fiscal quarters. In contrast, our highest volume of Net sales historically has occurred in our second and third fiscal quarters. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, floods, other natural disasters or similar events occur in the geographic regions in which we operate, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, our business units experience seasonal variation as a result of the dependence of our customers on suitable weather to engage in construction, maintenance and renovation and improvement projects. For example, our Construction & Industrial business unit sells products used primarily in the non-residential and residential construction industry. Generally, during the winter months, construction activity declines due to inclement weather and shorter daylight hours. As a result, operating results for the business units that experience such seasonality may vary significantly from period to period. We anticipate that fluctuations from period to period will continue in the future.. Disruptions at distribution centers or shipping ports, due to events such as work stoppages, as well as disruptions caused by tornadoes, hurricanes, blizzards and other storms and natural disasters from time to time, may affect our ability to both maintain key products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, the non-residential and residential construction markets are subject to cyclical market pressures. The length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by market. Prices of the. 21. Table of Contents. products we sell are historically volatile and subject to fluctuations arising from changes in supply and demand, national and international economic conditions, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulation and trade policies, as well as from periodic delays in the delivery of our products. We have a limited ability to control the timing and amount of changes to prices that we pay for our products. In addition, the supply of our products fluctuates based on available manufacturing capacity. A shortage of capacity, or excess capacity, in the industry can result in significant increases or declines in market prices for those products, often within a short period of time. Such price fluctuations can adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Fluctuating commodity prices may adversely impact our results of operations.. The cost of steel, refrigerants, and other commodities used in the products we distribute can be volatile. Although we attempt to resist cost increases by our suppliers and to pass on increased costs to our customers, we are not always able to do so quickly or at all. In addition, if prices decrease for commodities used in products we distribute, we may have inventories purchased at higher prices than prevailing market prices. Significant fluctuations in the cost of the commodities used in products we distribute have in the past adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our results of operations and financial condition.. If petroleum prices increase, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Conversely, prolonged weakness in the oil and gas industry could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Petroleum prices have fluctuated significantly in recent years. Prices and availability of petroleum products are subject to political, economic and market factors that are outside our control. Political events in petroleum-producing regions as well as hurricanes and other weather-related events may cause the price of fuel to increase. Within our business units, we deliver products to our customers via our own trucks as well as third-party carriers. Our operating profit will be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain the fuel we require or to fully offset the anticipated impact of higher fuel prices through increased prices or fuel surcharges to our customers. Besides passing fuel costs on to customers, we have not entered into any hedging arrangements that protect against fuel price increases, and we do not have any long-term fuel purchase contracts. If shortages occur in the supply of necessary petroleum products and we are not able to pass along the full impact of increased petroleum prices to our customers, our results of operations would be adversely affected.. A number of our branch locations serve customers that are either direct or indirect participants in the oil & gas industry. Additionally, a number of our branch locations are also geographically located in or near areas where the oil & gas industry is a significant component of the overall local economy, such as in Texas and in the various shale gas producing regions within the U.S. and Canada. If the prices of oil and gas remain relatively low and our customers are negatively impacted, then our customers' demand for our products and services could also be negatively impacted which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Product shortages may impair our operating results.. Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate product supply from manufacturers or other suppliers. Generally, our products are obtainable from various sources and in sufficient quantities. However, the loss of, or substantial decrease in the availability of, products from our suppliers, or the loss of our key supplier agreements, could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, supply interruptions could arise from shortages of raw materials (including petroleum products), labor disputes or weather conditions affecting products or shipments, transportation disruptions, adjustments to our inventory levels or other factors within and beyond our control.. 22. Table of Contents. Short- and long-term disruptions in our supply chain would result in a need to maintain higher inventory levels as we replace similar product, a higher cost of product and ultimately a decrease in our Net sales and profitability. A disruption in the timely availability of our products by our key suppliers would result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. Although in many instances we have agreements with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. Failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with products on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, would put pressure on our operating margins and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Short-term changes in the cost of these materials, some of which are subject to significant fluctuations, are sometimes, but not always passed on to our customers. Our inability to pass on material price increases to our customers could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We rely on third-party suppliers and long supply chains, and if we fail to identify and develop relationships with a sufficient number of qualified suppliers, or if there is a significant interruption in our supply chains, our ability to timely and efficiently access products that meet our standards for quality could be adversely affected.. We buy our products and supplies from suppliers located throughout the world. These suppliers manufacture and source products from the United States and abroad. Our ability to identify and develop relationships with qualified suppliers who can satisfy our standards for quality and our need to access products and supplies in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge. We may be required to replace a supplier if their products do not meet our quality or safety standards. In addition, our suppliers could discontinue selling products at any time for reasons that may or may not be in our control or the suppliers' control. Our operating results and inventory levels could suffer if we are unable to promptly replace a supplier who is unwilling or unable to satisfy our requirements with a supplier providing similar products. Our suppliers' ability to deliver products may also be affected by financing constraints caused by credit market conditions, which could negatively impact our revenue and cost of products sold, at least until alternate sources of supply are arranged.. In addition, since some of the products that we distribute are produced in foreign countries, we are dependent on long supply chains for the successful delivery of many of our products. The length and complexity of these supply chains make them vulnerable to numerous risks, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause significant interruptions or delays in delivery of our products. Factors such as political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' noncompliance with applicable laws, trade restrictions, labor disputes, currency fluctuations, changes in tariff or import policies, severe weather, terrorist attacks and transport capacity and cost may disrupt these supply chains and our ability to access products and supplies. For example, if the government of China were to reduce or withdraw the tax benefits they provide our Chinese suppliers, the cost of some of our products may increase and our margins could be reduced. We expect more of our products will be imported in the future, which will further increase these risks. If we increase the percentage of our products that are sourced from lower-cost countries, these risks will be amplified. Moreover, these risks will be amplified by our ongoing efforts to consolidate our supplier base across our business units. A significant interruption in our supply chains caused by any of the above factors could result in increased costs or delivery delays and result in a decrease in our Net sales and profitability.. 23. Table of Contents. New trade policies could make sourcing product from foreign countries more difficult and more costly.. We source a significant amount of our products from outside of the United States. Considerable political uncertainty exists in the United States and abroad that could result in changes to the national and international trade policies around which we have built our sourcing practices and operations. Given our significant investment in our sourcing and logistics operations and infrastructure, as well as our reliance upon non-domestic suppliers, any significant changes to the United States trade policies (and those of other countries in response) may cause a material adverse effect on our ability to source products from other countries or significantly increase the costs of obtaining such products, which would result in a material adverse effect on our financial results. For example, on March 1, 2018, the current presidential administration announced their intention to impose tariffs of 25 percent on steel imports and 10 percent on aluminum imports. These tariffs could go into effect in the near future. If the United States were to implement such recommendations, the cost of some of our products may increase and our margins could be reduced.. We have substantial fixed costs and, as a result, our operating income is sensitive to changes in our Net sales.. A significant portion of our expenses are fixed costs (including personnel), which do not fluctuate with Net sales. Consequently, a percentage decline in our Net sales could have a greater percentage effect on our operating income if we do not act to reduce personnel or take other cost reduction actions. Any decline in our Net sales would cause our profitability to be adversely affected. Moreover, a key element of our strategy is managing our assets, including our substantial fixed assets, more effectively, including through sales or other disposals of excess assets. Our failure to rationalize our fixed assets in the time, and within the costs, we expect could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. A change in our product mix could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our results may be affected by a change in our product mix. Our outlook, budgeting and strategic planning assume a certain product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected product mix of sales, our financial results could be negatively impacted.. The impairment or failure of financial institutions may adversely affect us.. We have exposure to counterparties with which we execute transactions, including U.S. and foreign commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks, investment funds and other financial institutions. Many of these transactions could expose us to risk in the event of the bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a counterparty. While we have not realized any significant losses to date, the bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving one of our financial institution counterparties could have a material adverse impact on our access to funding or our ability to meet our financing agreement obligations.. The development of alternatives to distributors in the supply chain could cause a decrease in our sales and operating results and limit our ability to grow our business.. Our customers could begin fulfilling more of their product needs directly from manufacturers, which would result in decreases in our Net sales and earnings. Our suppliers could invest in infrastructure to expand their own local sales force and sell more products directly to our customers, which also would negatively impact our business.. In addition to these factors, our customers may elect to establish their own building products manufacturing and distribution facilities, or give advantages to manufacturing or distribution intermediaries in which they have an economic stake. These changes in the supply chain could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. 24. Table of Contents. Because our business is working capital intensive, we rely on our ability to manage our product purchasing and customer credit policies.. Our operations are working capital intensive, and our inventories, accounts receivable and accounts payable are significant components of our net asset base. We manage our inventories and accounts payable through our purchasing policies and our accounts receivable through our customer credit policies. If we fail to adequately manage our product purchasing or customer credit policies, our working capital and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Anti-terrorism measures and other disruptions to the transportation network could impact our distribution system and our operations.. Our ability to provide efficient distribution of products to our customers is an integral component of our overall business strategy. In the aftermath of terrorist attacks in the United States, federal, state and local authorities have implemented and continue to implement various security measures that affect many parts of the transportation network in the United States and abroad. Our customers typically need quick delivery and rely on our on-time delivery capabilities. If security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers, or may incur increased expenses to do so.. The implementation of our technology initiatives could disrupt our operations in the near term, and our technology initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or might fail.. We have made, and will continue to make, significant technology investments in each of our business units and in our administrative functions. Our technology initiatives are designed to streamline our operations to allow our associates to continue to provide high quality service to our customers and to provide our customers a better experience, while improving the quality of our internal control environment. The cost and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of our technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near term. In addition, our new or upgraded technology might not provide the anticipated benefits, it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits or the technology might fail altogether.. Interruptions in the proper functioning of our information technology, or \"IT\" systems, including from cybersecurity threats, could disrupt operations and cause unanticipated increases in costs or decreases in revenues, or both.. We use our information systems to, among other things, manage inventories and accounts receivable, make purchasing decisions, manage our manufacturing operations and monitor our results of operations, and process, transmit and store sensitive electronic data, including employee, supplier and customer records. As a result, the proper functioning of our IT systems is critical to the successful operation of our business. Our information systems include proprietary systems developed and maintained by us. In addition, we depend on IT systems of third parties, such as suppliers, retailers and OEMs to, among other things, market and distribute products, develop new products and services, operate our website, host and manage our services, store data, process transactions, respond to customer inquiries and manage inventory and our supply chain. Although our IT systems are protected through physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities exist, our IT systems or those of third parties upon whom we depend are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, unauthorized access, telecommunication failures and other problems. If critical proprietary or third-party IT systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, including as a result of system upgrades and transitions, our ability to process orders, track credit risk, identify business opportunities, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable, pay expenses and otherwise manage our business would be adversely affected.. 25. Table of Contents. Cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. These incidents can include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, collecting ransoms, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data (either directly or through our vendors and customers) and other electronic security breaches. Despite our security measures, our IT systems and infrastructure or those of our third parties may be vulnerable to such cyber incidents. The result of these incidents could include, but are not limited to, disrupted operations, misstated or misappropriated financial data, theft of our intellectual property or other confidential information (including of our customers, suppliers and employees), liability for stolen assets or information, increased cyber security protection costs and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence. In addition, if any information about our customers, including payment information, were the subject of a successful cybersecurity attack against us, we could be subject to litigation or other claims by the affected customers. We have incurred costs and may incur significant additional costs in order to implement the security measures we feel are appropriate to protect our IT systems.. Our costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in U.S. federal, state or local regulations.. Our operations are principally affected by various statutes, regulations and laws in the 36 U.S. states and six Canadian provinces in which we operate. While we are not engaged in a regulated industry, we are subject to various laws applicable to businesses generally, including laws affecting land usage, zoning, the environment, health and safety, transportation, labor and employment practices, competition, immigration and other matters. Additionally, building codes may affect the products our customers are allowed to use, and consequently, changes in building codes may affect the saleability of our products. Changes in U.S. federal, state or local regulations governing the sale of some of our products could increase our costs of doing business. In addition, changes to U.S. federal, state and local tax regulations could increase our costs of doing business. We cannot provide assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with regulatory requirements.. We deliver products to many of our customers through our own fleet of vehicles. The U.S. Department of Transportation (the \"DOT\") regulates our operations in domestic interstate commerce. We are subject to safety requirements governing interstate operations prescribed by the DOT. Vehicle dimensions and driver hours of service also remain subject to both federal and state regulation. More restrictive limitations on vehicle weight and size, trailer length and configuration, or driver hours of service could increase our costs, which, if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers, would reduce our gross margins, increase our Selling, general and administrative expenses and reduce our Net income (loss).. We cannot predict whether future developments in law and regulations concerning our business units will affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in a negative manner. Similarly, we cannot assess whether our business units will be successful in meeting future demands of regulatory agencies in a manner which will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are required to evaluate and, if applicable, disclose our use of 'conflict minerals' in certain of the products we distribute, which imposes costs on us and could raise reputational and other risks.. The SEC promulgated final rules in connection with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as 'conflict minerals', that are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. Compliance with these rules requires due diligence efforts and disclosure in each fiscal year. There are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs to determine which. 26. Table of Contents. of our products are subject to the new rules and the source of any 'conflict minerals' used in those products. In addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in those products. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify the origins for all metals used in products through the procedures we may implement. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy customers that may require all of the components of products purchased to be certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a distributor which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The nature of our business exposes us to construction defect and product liability claims as well as other legal proceedings.. We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with the products we sell and distribute. As we do not have direct control over the quality of the products manufactured or supplied by such third-party suppliers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of the products we distribute and install. It is possible that inventory from a manufacturer or supplier could be sold to our customers and later be alleged to have quality problems or to have caused personal injury, subjecting us to potential claims from customers or third parties. We have been subject to such claims in the past, which have been resolved without material financial impact. From time to time, we are involved in construction defect and product liability claims relating to our various construction trades and the products we distribute and manufacture and relating to products we have installed. In certain situations, we have undertaken to voluntarily remediate any defects, which can be a costly measure. We also operate a large fleet of trucks and other vehicles and therefore face the risk of traffic accidents.. While we currently maintain insurance coverage to address a portion of these types of liabilities, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or that any such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Further, while we seek indemnification against potential liability for product liability claims from relevant parties, including but not limited to manufacturers and suppliers, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to recover under such indemnification agreements. Moreover, if we increase the number of private label products we distribute, our exposure to potential liability for products liability claims may increase. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant time periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful product liability defense could be highly costly and accordingly result in a decline in profitability. In addition, uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system may adversely affect us in resolving claims arising from our proprietary brand products manufactured in China. Because many laws and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform. Finally, even if we are successful in defending any claim relating to the products we distribute, claims of this nature could negatively impact customer confidence in our products and our Company.. From time to time, we are also involved in government inquiries and investigations, as well as class action, consumer, employment and tort proceedings, and other litigation. We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, including environmental remediation and other proceedings commenced by government authorities. The outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could adversely affect our operations or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters.. 27. Table of Contents. If we become subject to material liabilities under our self-insured programs, our financial results may be adversely affected.. We provide workers' compensation, automobile and product/general liability coverage through a high deductible insurance program. In addition, we are self-insured for our health benefits and maintain per employee stop-loss coverage. Although we believe that we have adequate stop-loss coverage for catastrophic claims to cap the risk of loss, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if the number and severity of claims that are not covered by stop-loss insurance increases.. We may see increased costs arising from healthcare reform.. In March 2010, the United States government enacted comprehensive healthcare reform legislation which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and healthcare benefits. Although the current United States administration has indicated its desire and intent to repeal and/or replace the current healthcare reform legislation, there can be no assurance that any such action will be achieved. The March 2010 legislation imposes implementation effective dates which began in 2010 and extend through 2020, and many of the changes require additional guidance from government agencies or federal regulations. Therefore, due to the phased-in nature of the implementation and limited interpretive guidance, and the legislation's possible repeal and/or replacement, it is difficult to determine at this time what impact the health care reform legislation, or any possible replacement, will have on our financial results. Possible adverse effects of the health reform legislation, and any replacement, include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise ways in which we provide healthcare and other benefits to our employees. As a result, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified associates and key personnel.. To be successful, we must attract, train and retain a large number of highly qualified associates while controlling related labor costs. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and health and other insurance costs. We compete with other businesses for these associates and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified associates in the future, including, in particular, those employed by companies we acquire. A very small proportion of our employees (within our recent acquisition of A.H. Harris Construction Supplies) are currently covered by collective bargaining or other similar labor agreements. Historically, the effects of collective bargaining and other similar labor agreements on us have not been significant. However, if our employees were to unionize, including in the wake of any future legislation that makes it easier for employees to unionize, the effect on us may be adverse. Any inability by us to negotiate acceptable new contracts under these collective bargaining arrangements could cause strikes or other work stoppages, and new contracts could result in increased operating costs. If any such strikes or other work stoppages occur, or if other employees become represented by a union, we could experience a disruption of our operations and higher labor costs. Labor relations matters affecting our suppliers of products and services could also adversely affect our business from time to time.. In addition, our business results depend largely upon our chief executive officer and senior management team as well as our branch managers and sales personnel and their experience, knowledge of local market dynamics and specifications and long-standing customer relationships. We customarily sign employment letters providing for an agreement not to compete with key personnel of companies we acquire in order to maintain key customer relationships and manage the transition of the acquired. 28. Table of Contents. business. Our inability to retain or hire qualified branch managers or sales personnel at economically reasonable compensation levels would restrict our ability to grow our business, limit our ability to continue to successfully operate our business and result in lower operating results and profitability.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may significantly reduce our revenues and profitability.. As an industrial distributor of manufactured products, our profitability is tied to the prices we pay to the manufacturers from which we purchase our products. Some of our suppliers price their products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar or incur costs of production in non-U.S. currencies. Accordingly, depreciation of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies increases the prices we pay for these products. Even short-term currency fluctuations could adversely impact revenues and profitability if we are unable to pass higher supply costs on to our customers. Our delayed ability to pass on material price increases to our customers could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, or we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted.. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, upon our ability to protect and preserve proprietary aspects of our intellectual property, including our trademarks and customer lists. The use of our intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could adversely impact our ability to compete, cause us to lose Net sales or otherwise harm our business. If it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect these rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail.. Also, we cannot be certain that the products that we sell do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Further, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our customers in connection with their use of the products that we distribute. Should we be found liable for infringement, we (or our suppliers) may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) or pay damages and cease making or selling certain products. Moreover, we may need to redesign or sell different products to avoid future infringement liability. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs, prevent us from selling our products or negatively impact our ability to compete.. Income tax payments may ultimately differ from amounts currently recorded by us. Future tax law changes may materially increase our prospective income tax expense.. We are subject to income taxation in many jurisdictions in the U.S. as well as foreign jurisdictions. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision and, accordingly, there are many transactions and computations for which our final income tax determination is uncertain. We are routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. Although we believe the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit (or related litigation) could be materially different from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Future settlements of income tax audits may have a material effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. Additionally, it is possible that future income tax legislation and/or import tariffs or border adjustment proposals in any jurisdiction to which we are subject may be enacted that could have a material impact on our worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes effective.. 29. Table of Contents. Our NOL carryforwards could be limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code.. As of January 28, 2018, we had U.S. federal NOL carryforwards of $791 million ($166 million on a tax-effected basis). Such NOL carryforwards begin to expire in fiscal 2033. We also had significant state NOL carryforwards, which expire in various years through fiscal 2037. Our ability to deduct these NOL carryforwards against future taxable income is contingent on the generation of future taxable income in the jurisdiction of the prior NOL. Additionally, our ability to deduct NOL carryforwards could be limited if we experience an \"ownership change,\" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In general, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the aggregate direct or indirect ownership of certain persons (or groups of persons) in our stock by more than 50 percentage points over a testing period (generally three years). Future direct or indirect changes in the ownership of our common stock, including sales or acquisitions of our common stock by stockholders and purchases and issuances of our common stock by us, some of which are not in our control, could result in an ownership change. Any resulting limitation on the use of our NOL carryforwards could result in the payment of taxes above the amounts currently anticipated and have a negative effect on our future results of operations and financial position. Additionally, uncertainty exists with respect to future regulatory guidance and interpretations of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\"), as well as the assumptions the Company makes related to the Tax Act, which could have an impact on the use of the Company's NOL carryforwards.. We may not be able to identify new products and new product lines and integrate them into our distribution network, which may impact our ability to compete.. Our business depends in part on our ability to identify future products and product lines that complement existing products and product lines and that respond to our customers' needs. We may not be able to compete effectively unless our product selection keeps up with trends in the markets in which we compete or trends in new products. In addition, our ability to integrate new products and product lines into our distribution network could impact our ability to compete. Furthermore, the success of new products and new product lines will depend on market demand and there is a risk that new products and new product lines will not deliver expected results, which could negatively impact our future sales and results of operations. Our expansion into new markets may present competitive, distribution and regulatory challenges that differ from current ones. We may be less familiar with the target customers and may face different or additional risks, as well as increased or unexpected costs, compared to existing operations. Growth into new markets may also bring us into direct competition with companies with whom we have little or no past experience as competitors. To the extent we are reliant upon expansion into new geographic, industry and product markets for growth and do not meet the new challenges posed by such expansion, our future sales growth could be negatively impacted, our operating costs could increase, and our business operations and financial results could be negatively affected.. We could incur significant costs in complying with environmental, health and safety laws or permits or as a result of satisfying any liability or obligation imposed under such laws or permits.. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Among other things, these laws regulate the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, govern the use, storage, treatment, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes, protect the health and safety of our employees and the end users of our products, regulate the materials used in and the recycling of products and impose liability for the costs of investigating and remediating, and damages resulting from, present and past releases of hazardous substances. Violations of these laws and regulations or non-compliance with any conditions contained in any environmental permit can result in substantial fines or penalties, injunctive relief,. 30. Table of Contents. requirements to install pollution or other controls or equipment, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. We could be held liable for the costs to address contamination of any real property we have ever owned, operated or used as a disposal site. We could also incur fines, penalties, sanctions or be subject to third-party claims for property damage, personal injury or nuisance or otherwise as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws in connection with releases of hazardous or other materials. In addition, changes in, or new interpretations of, existing laws, regulations or enforcement policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of other environmental liabilities or obligations in the future, including additional investigation or other obligations with respect to any potential health hazards of our products or business activities or the imposition of new permit requirements, may lead to additional compliance or other costs that could have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such potential change.. Concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant federal, state, and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas (\"GHG\") emissions. For example, over the past several years, the U.S. Congress has considered various bills that would regulate GHG emissions. While these bills have not yet received sufficient Congressional support for enactment, some form of federal climate change legislation could be possible in the future. Even in the absence of such legislation, the Environmental Protection Agency, spurred by judicial interpretation of the Clean Air Act, may regulate GHG emissions, especially diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. These costs include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our internal fleet of trucks and other vehicles prematurely. In addition, new laws or future regulation could directly and indirectly affect our customers and suppliers (through an increase in the cost of production or their ability to produce satisfactory products) and our business (through the impact on our inventory availability, cost of sales, operations or demands for the products we sell). Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results. Notwithstanding our dedication to being a responsible corporate citizen, it is reasonably possible that such legislation or regulation could impose material costs on us. Moreover, even without such legislation or regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the GHGs emitted by companies involved in the transportation of goods could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our products and services.. Our failure to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.. We are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting on a periodic basis and publicly disclose the results of these evaluations and related matters, in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These reporting and other obligations place significant additional demands on our management and administrative and operational resources, including our accounting resources, which could adversely affect our operations among other things. To comply with these requirements, we have upgraded, and are continuing to upgrade, our systems, including information technology, and we have implemented additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in maintaining adequate control over our financial reporting and financial processes. Furthermore, as we grow our business both organically and through acquisition, our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting will become more complex, and we may require significantly more resources to ensure that these controls and procedures remain effective. If we are unable to continue upgrading our financial and management. 31. Table of Contents. controls, reporting systems, information technology and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, additional management and other resources of the Company may need to be devoted to assist in compliance with the disclosure and financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.. Future changes in financial accounting standards may significantly change our reported results of operations.. The accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"GAAP\") are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. In addition, the SEC has announced a multi-year plan that could ultimately lead to the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by U.S. issuers in their SEC filings. Any such change could have a significant effect on our reported financial results.. Additionally, our assumptions, estimates and judgments related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. GAAP and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, impairment of long-lived assets, leases and related economic transactions, intangibles, self-insurance, income taxes, property and equipment, litigation and stock-based compensation are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by us. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by us (i) could require us to make changes to our accounting systems to implement these changes that could increase our operating costs and (ii) could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance.. On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (\"ASU\") 2016-02, \"Leases (Topic 842)\" (\"ASU 2016-02\"). ASU 2016-02 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018. The lease accounting model is a \"right of use\" model that assumes that each lease creates an asset (the lessee's right to use the leased asset) and a liability (the future rent payment obligations) which should be reflected on a lessee's balance sheet to fairly represent the lease transaction and the lessee's related financial obligations. We conduct operations primarily under leases that are accounted for as operating leases, with no related assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 requires that substantially all of our operating leases be recognized as assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. Adoption of ASU 2016-02 could have a material impact on our reported results of operations. Interpretations of the new lease accounting rules or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by us could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance.. Fulfilling the obligations incident to being a public company, including with respect to the requirements of and related rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, is expensive and time-consuming, and any delays or difficulties in satisfying these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.. As an issuer of publicly listed equity, we are subject to certain reporting and corporate governance requirements, NASDAQ listing standards and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which impose certain compliance costs and obligations upon us. These requirements result in a significant commitment of additional resources and management oversight which increases our operating costs. These requirements also place significant demands on our finance and accounting and legal staffs and on our financial accounting and information systems. Other expenses associated with being a public company. 32. Table of Contents. include costs associated with auditing, accounting and legal fees and expenses, investor relations expenses, increased directors' fees and director and officer liability insurance costs, registrar and transfer agent fees and listing fees, as well as other expenses.. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or other regulatory authorities.. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness. We have substantial debt and may incur substantial additional debt, which could adversely affect our financial health, reduce our profitability, limit our ability to obtain financing in the future and pursue certain business opportunities and reduce the value of your investment.. As of January 28, 2018, we had an aggregate principal amount of $2,101 million of outstanding debt, net of unamortized discounts and unamortized deferred financing costs of $6 million and $29 million, respectively. In fiscal 2017 we incurred $166 million of interest expense.. The amount of our debt or such other obligations could have important consequences for holders of our common stock, including, but not limited to:. <U+0095> a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes;    <U+0095> our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes and other purposes may be impaired in the future;    <U+0095> we are exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because a portion of our borrowings is at variable rates of interest;     <U+0095> we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt or with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates and that, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns;    <U+0095> our ability to refinance indebtedness may be limited or the associated costs may increase;    <U+0095> our ability to engage in acquisitions without raising additional equity or obtaining additional debt financing may be impaired in the future;     <U+0095> it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our creditors, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness;    <U+0095> we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and    <U+0095> our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and our ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, or we may be prevented from making capital investments that are necessary or important to our operations in general, growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins of our business units.. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or refinance our debt. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms. 33. Table of Contents. acceptable to us, or at all. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, or obtain additional financing, particularly because of our current debt levels and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt, as well as prevailing market conditions. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The credit agreements governing our Senior Credit Facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and how we use the proceeds from any such dispositions. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to consummate those dispositions, or if we do, what the timing of the dispositions will be or whether the proceeds that we realize will be adequate to meet our debt service obligations when due.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition.. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, including secured debt. Although the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness, including obligations under lease arrangements that are currently recorded as operating leases even if operating leases were to be treated as debt under future GAAP. In addition, the Senior ABL Facility provides a commitment of up to $1,000 million subject to a borrowing base. As of January 28, 2018, we were able to borrow an additional $909 million under the Senior ABL Facility. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business and adversely affect the holders of our common stock.. Our Senior ABL Facility and our Term Loan Facility contain covenants that, among other things, restrict or limit our subsidiaries' ability to:. <U+0095> dispose of assets;    <U+0095> incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees of additional indebtedness);    <U+0095> prepay or amend our various debt instruments;    <U+0095> pay dividends and make certain payments;    <U+0095> create liens on assets;    <U+0095> engage in certain asset sales, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or sales of all, or substantially all, of our assets;     <U+0095> engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and    <U+0095> permit consensual restrictions on our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends.. The indentures governing our outstanding notes contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of our subsidiaries to:. <U+0095> incur additional debt;    <U+0095> pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions;. 34. Table of Contents. <U+0095> make certain investments;    <U+0095> create liens;    <U+0095> transfer or sell assets;    <U+0095> merge or consolidate with other companies; and    <U+0095> enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the Senior Credit Facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under either the Senior Credit Facilities or the indentures governing our outstanding notes that would permit the applicable lenders or noteholders, as the case may be, to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay indebtedness, lenders having secured obligations, such as the lenders under the Senior Credit Facilities, could proceed against the collateral securing the secured obligations. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent.. We may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms.. Although we believe that our current cash position and the additional committed funding available under our Senior ABL Facility is sufficient for our current operations, any reductions in our available borrowing capacity, or our inability to renew or replace our debt facilities, when required or when business conditions warrant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The economic conditions, credit market conditions and economic climate affecting our industry, as well as other factors, may constrain our financing abilities. Our ability to secure additional financing, if available, and to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, the availability of credit generally, economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The market conditions and the macroeconomic conditions that affect our industry could have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure financing on favorable terms, if at all.. We may be unable to secure additional financing or financing on favorable terms or our operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under the indebtedness outstanding from time to time. Furthermore, if financing is not available when needed, or is available on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of the Company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock.. Increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability.. A significant portion of our outstanding debt, including under the Senior Credit Facilities, bears interest at variable rates. As a result, increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. Each one percentage point increase in interest rates on our variable-rate debt would increase our annual forecasted interest expense by approximately $11 million based on balances as of January 28, 2018. Assuming all revolving loans were fully drawn, each one percentage point increase in interest rates would result in a $21 million increase in annual cash interest expense on our Senior Credit Facilities. The impact of increases in interest rates. 35. Table of Contents. could be more significant for us than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial indebtedness.. We may not be able to repurchase our existing notes upon a change of control.. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding notes until such notes are redeemed in full. Additionally, under the Term Loan Facility and the Senior ABL Facility, a change of control (as defined therein) constitutes an event of default that permits the lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings under the respective agreements and terminate their commitments to lend. We may not be able to satisfy the obligations upon a change of control because we may not have sufficient financial resources to purchase all of the debt securities that are tendered upon a change of control and repay our other indebtedness that will become due. Consequently, we may require additional financing from third parties to fund any such purchases, and we may be unable to obtain financing on satisfactory terms or at all. Further, our ability to repurchase our existing notes may be limited by law. In order to avoid the obligations to repurchase our existing notes and events of default and potential breaches of the credit agreement governing the Term Loan Facility, and the credit agreement governing the Senior ABL Facility, we may have to avoid certain change of control transactions that would otherwise be beneficial to us.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. Holdings is a holding company with no operations of its own, and it depends on its subsidiaries for cash to fund all of its operations and expenses, including to buy back capital stock and make future dividend payments, if any.. Our operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries and our ability to generate cash to meet our debt service obligations, to buy back capital stock and to pay dividends is highly dependent on the earnings and the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries via dividends or intercompany loans. Historically, we have not declared or paid dividends on our common stock. However, to the extent that we determine in the future to pay dividends on our common stock, our Senior Credit Facilities significantly restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to us. In addition, Delaware law may impose requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline in the future.. We cannot assure you that an active public market for our common stock will be sustained. In the absence of a public trading market, you may not be able to liquidate your investment in our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:. <U+0095> industry or general market conditions;    <U+0095> domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance;    <U+0095> changes in our customers' preferences;    <U+0095> new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines;    <U+0095> actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results;    <U+0095> changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance or lack of research and reports by industry analysts;     <U+0095> actions by institutional stockholders or other large stockholders, including future sales by them of shares of our common stock;. 36. Table of Contents. <U+0095> speculation in the press or investment community;    <U+0095> investor perception of us and our industry;    <U+0095> changes in market valuations or earnings of similar companies;    <U+0095> announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions, divestitures or strategic partnerships;     <U+0095> developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights, including increases or decreases in litigation expenses associated with intellectual property lawsuits we may initiate, or in which we may be named as defendants;    <U+0095> failure to complete significant sales;    <U+0095> any future sales of our common stock or other securities; and    <U+0095> additions or departures of key Company personnel.. In particular, we cannot assure you that you will be able to resell your shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The stock markets have experienced volatility in recent years that has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, class action litigation has often been instituted against such company and we are currently involved in litigation of this nature as disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and certain of our prior filings with the SEC. This current litigation and any future litigation of this type brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of January 28, 2018 we had 185,723,608 outstanding shares of common stock, a the majority of which are freely tradeable without restriction under the Securities Act unless held by \"affiliates,\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The remaining shares of common stock outstanding as of January 28, 2018 are restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may be sold in the U.S. public market only if registered of if they qualify for an exemption from registration, including by reason of Rules 144 or 701 under the Securities Act. Al of our restricted shares are eligible for share in the public market, subject in certain circumstances to the volume, manner of sale limitations with respect to shares held by our affiliates, and other limitations under Rule 144. In connection with our initial public offering, we filed registration statements under the Securities Act to register the shares of common stock to be issued under our equity compensation plans and, as a result, all shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of stock options granted under our plans are also freely tradable under the Securities Act, unless purchased by our affiliates. As of January 28, 2018, there were stock options outstanding to purchase a total of approximately 2.4 million shares of our common stock. In addition, approximately 16.9 million shares of common stock are reserved for future issuance under our omnibus incentive plan and our employee stock purchase plan.. In the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into common stock in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation settlement or employee arrangement or otherwise. Any of these issuances could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. 37. Table of Contents. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts downgrades our stock or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of the Company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws include a number of provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws:. <U+0095> authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt;     <U+0095> establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving for staggered three-year terms, which prevents stockholders from electing an entirely new board at an annual meeting;    <U+0095> limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors;    <U+0095> provide that vacancies on our Board of Directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office;    <U+0095> prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders;    <U+0095> prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders;     <U+0095> establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and    <U+0095> require the approval of holders of at least 75% of the outstanding shares of our voting common stock to amend our amended and restated by-laws and certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation.. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders.. We may not determine to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We may not declare and pay dividends on our common stock in the near future. In the absence of a dividend, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock would depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares.. 38. Table of Contents"
