[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We believe that the risks and uncertainties described below are the principal material risks facing the Company as of the date of this report. In the future, we may become subject to additional risks that are not currently known to us. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or prospects could be materially and adversely affected by the occurrence of any of the following risks and uncertainties. Additional risks or uncertainties not presently know to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. The trading price of our common stock could also decline due to the occurrence of any of the following risks or any unknown risks.. Risks Related to Our Business Model. We may be unable to effectively execute our growth strategy which could have an adverse effect on our business and competitive position in the industry.. Our business strategy includes increasing our market share and presence through sales to new customers, additional sales to existing customers, introductions of new products and services, and maintaining strong relationships with our existing customers. Some of the risks that we may encounter in executing our growth strategy include:. <U+0095>    expenses, delays, and difficulties in identifying and developing new products or services and integrating such new products or services into our existing organization;. <U+0095>    inability to leverage our operational and financial systems and processes sufficiently to support our growth;. <U+0095>    inability to generate sufficient revenue from our products to offset investment costs;. <U+0095>    inability to effectively identify, manage, and exploit existing and emerging market opportunities;. <U+0095>    inability to maintain our existing customer relationships;. <U+0095>    increased competition from new and existing competitors;. <U+0095>    lengthy sales cycles, or customers delaying purchasing decisions or payments due to economic conditions;. <U+0095>    reduced spending within our target markets;. <U+0095>    failure of the market for our products and services to grow to a sufficient size or at a sufficient rate; and. <U+0095>    inability to hire sufficient number of qualified employees to execute and support the growth of the Company.. If any of these risks are realized, our business, and our competitive position in the industry, could suffer.. We may be unable to effectively identify, complete or integrate the operations of acquisitions, joint ventures, collaborative arrangements or other strategic investments, which would inhibit our ability to execute upon our growth strategy.. As part of our growth strategy, we actively review possible acquisitions, joint ventures, collaborative arrangements or strategic investments that complement or enhance our business. We may not be able to identify, complete or integrate the operations of such acquisitions, joint ventures, collaborative arrangements or other strategic investments. In addition, if we finance acquisitions, joint ventures, collaborative arrangements or other strategic initiatives by issuing equity securities, our existing shareholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and investments, our business prospects may be seriously harmed. Some of the risks that we may encounter in implementing our acquisition, joint venture, collaborative arrangement or strategic investment strategies include:. <U+0095>    expenses, delays or difficulties in identifying and integrating acquired companies or joint venture operations, collaborative arrangements or other strategic investments into our organization;. <U+0095>    inability to retain personnel associated with acquisitions, joint ventures, collaborative arrangements or other strategic investments;. <U+0095>    diversion of management's attention from other initiatives and/or day-to-day operations to effectively execute our growth strategy; and. <U+0095>    inability to generate sufficient revenue, profit, and cash flow from acquisitions, joint ventures, collaborative arrangements or other strategic investments to offset our investment costs.. Our ability to accurately forecast revenue for certain products and services may be hindered by customer scheduling.. While the revenue we receive from particular products and services in our subscription business may be predictable during the term of the applicable contract, the performance of our subscription business may become more subject to fluctuations between quarterly periods as our solution offerings diversify and become more sophisticated. Certain project-based products, such as consulting, certain content development, and professional services, are subject to the customers' involvement in the provision of the product or service. The timing and magnitude of these project-based product and service contracts may vary widely from quarter to quarter and year to year, and thus may affect our ability to accurately forecast quarterly and annual financial performance. In addition, some products, including those in our Workforce Development and Provider Solutions segments, can require significant implementation lead times. 10. Table of Contents. and resources, and may require a level of change management efforts from our clients, which may also impact our ability to accurately forecast financial performance.. Our ability to accurately forecast revenue may be affected by lengthy and widely varying sales cycles.. The period from our initial contact with a potential customer and their first purchase of our solution typically ranges from three to nine months, and in some cases has extended much further. The range in the sales cycle can be impacted by multiple factors, including an increasing trend towards more formal request for proposal processes and more competition within our industry, as well as formal budget timelines which impact timing of purchases by target customers. New products, including those that may compete with or replace our former product offerings, tend to have a longer and more unpredictable revenue ramp period because of varying customer adoption rates. As a result of these factors, we have only limited ability to forecast the timing and type of initial sales. This, in turn, makes it more difficult to forecast quarterly and annual financial performance.. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position against current and potential competitors, especially those with significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, or other resources.. Several of our competitors and many potential competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, or other resources than we do. We encounter direct competition from both large and small talent and human resource management companies and other companies focused on workforce development in the healthcare industry, as well as companies that offer provider solutions. Given the profile and growth of the healthcare industry and the ongoing need for training, simulation, credentialing, and other information products and services, it is likely that additional competitors will emerge. We believe we maintain a competitive advantage against our competitors by offering a comprehensive array of products and services; however, our lack of market diversification resulting from our concentration on the healthcare industry may make us susceptible to losing market share to our competitors who also offer solutions, and in some cases a more robust suite of solutions, to a cross-section of industries. These companies may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. Further, most of our customer agreements are for terms ranging from one to three years, with no obligation to renew. The terms of these agreements may enable customers to more easily shift to one of our competitors.. The failure to maintain and strengthen our relationships with strategic partners or significant changes in the terms of the agreements we have with them may have an adverse impact on our ability to successfully market our products and services.. We have entered into contracts with strategic partners, including content, technology, and retail channel vendors. Our ability to increase the sales of our products and services depends in part upon maintaining and strengthening relationships with these current and future strategic partners. Most of these contracts are on a non-exclusive basis. Certain strategic partners may offer products and services from multiple distinct companies, including, in some instances, products or services which may compete with our products and services. Moreover, under contracts with some of our strategic partners, we may be bound by provisions that restrict our ability to market and sell our products and services to certain potential customers. The success of these contractual arrangements will depend in part upon the strategic partners' own competitive, marketing, and strategic considerations, including the relative advantages for such strategic partners in using alternative products being developed and marketed by them or our competitors, rather than our products and services.. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain and strengthen our relationships with strategic partners, that we will be successful in effectively integrating such partners' products and technology into our own, or that such relationships will be successful in generating additional revenue. If any of these strategic partners have negative experiences with our products and services, or seek to amend or terminate the financial or other terms of the contracts or arrangements we have with them, we may need to increase our organizational focus on the types of services and solutions they sell and alter our development, integration, and/or distribution strategies, which may divert our planned efforts and resources from other projects.. Lastly, we could be subject to claims and liability, as a result of the activities, products, or services of these strategic partners, and/or our acts or omissions with regard to these strategic partners. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending these claims could be expensive, time-consuming and result in suspension of or interference with certain offerings to our clients and/or adverse publicity that could harm our business.. We may not be able to retain distribution rights from our content partners, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Most of our agreements with content and technology providers are for initial terms of three or more years. These partners may choose not to renew their agreements with us or may terminate the agreements early if we do not fulfill our contractual obligations. If a significant number of our partners terminate or fail to renew their agreements with us on as favorable terms, such as a reduction in our revenue share arrangement, it could result in a reduction in the number of courses and solutions we are able to distribute and decreased revenues. Most of our agreements with our content partners are non-exclusive, and our competitors offer, or could offer, content or solutions that are similar to or the same as ours. If our current partners offer or otherwise make available their products and services to users or our competitors on more favorable terms than those offered to us, or increase our license fees, our competitive position, revenue, and our profit margins and prospects could be harmed. In addition, the failure by our partners to deliver high-quality content and technology, and to revise their content and technology, in response to user demand and evolving healthcare. 11. Table of Contents. advances and trends could result in customer dissatisfaction and inhibit our ability to attract and retain subscribers.. We may not be able to develop new products and services, or enhancements to our existing products and services, or be able to achieve widespread acceptance of new products, services or features, or keep pace with technological developments.. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to generate revenue growth through sales to new customers as well as increasing sales of additional subscriptions and other products and services to existing customers. Our identification of additional features, content, products and services may not result in timely development of complementary products. In addition, the success of certain new products and services may be dependent on continued growth in our customer base. Furthermore, we are not able to accurately predict the volume or speed with which existing and new customers will adopt such new products and services. Because healthcare technology continues to change and evolve, we may be unable to accurately predict and develop new products, features, content and other products to address the needs of the healthcare industry. Further, the new products, services and enhancements we develop may introduce significant defects into or otherwise negatively impact our core software platform. While all new products and services are subject to testing and quality control, all software and software-based services are subject to errors and malfunctions. If we release new products, services and/or enhancements with bugs, defects or errors or that cause bugs, defects or errors in existing products, it could result in lost revenues and/or reduced ability to meet contractual obligations and would be detrimental to our business and reputation. If new products, features, or content are not accepted or integrated by new or existing customers, we may not be able to recover the cost of this development and our financial performance will be harmed. Continued growth of our customer population is dependent on our ability to continue to provide relevant products and services in a timely manner. The success of our business will depend on our ability to continue providing our products and services as well as enhancing our content, product and service offerings that address the needs of healthcare organizations.. We may be unable to continue to license our third party software, on which a portion of our product and service offerings rely, or we may experience errors in this software, which could increase our costs and decrease our revenue.. We use technology components in some of our products that have been licensed from third parties. Future licenses to these technologies may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of or inability to obtain or maintain any of these licenses could result in delays in the introduction of new products and services or could force us to discontinue offering portions of solutions until equivalent technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. The operation of our products would be impaired if errors occur in third party technology or content that we incorporate, and we may incur additional costs to repair or replace the defective technology or content. It may be difficult for us to correct any errors in third party products because the products are not within our control. Accordingly, our revenue could decrease and our costs could increase in the event of any errors in this technology. Furthermore, we may become subject to legal claims related to licensed technology based on product liability, infringement of intellectual property or other legal theories. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending these claims could be expensive and time-consuming, and could result in suspension of or interference with certain offerings to our clients and/or adverse publicity that could harm our business.. Financial Risks. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from a relatively small number of customers.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a relatively small number of customers. A termination or material modification of our agreements with any of our significant customers or a failure of these customers to renew their contracts on favorable terms, or at all, could have an adverse effect on our business.. A significant portion of our business is subject to renewal each year. Therefore, renewals have a significant impact on our revenue and operating results.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 69% of our net revenue was derived from our workforce subscription-based solution products. Our subscription-based customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our products or services after the expiration of the subscription agreement, and in fact, some customers have elected not to renew their subscription. In addition, our customers may renew at a lower pricing or activity level. Our customers' renewals may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including but not limited to their dissatisfaction with our service, a dissipation or cessation of their need for one or more of our products or services, pricing, or competitive product offerings. If we are unable to renew a substantial portion of the contracts that are up for renewal or maintain our pricing, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. For example, the requirement mandated by CMS for healthcare organizations to transition to the ICD-10 coding system, effective in October 2015, generated significant demand for our ICD-10 readiness training courseware from 2012 through 2015, when subscriptions for that product positively influenced the Company's revenue and operating income. However, sales of that product have ceased and revenue and operating income from that product declined significantly during 2016 and have ceased altogether as of December 31, 2017. HealthStream Provider Solutions product and service contracts typically range from one to three years in length, and customers are not obligated to renew their contract with us after their contract expires. If our customers do not renew their arrangements for our services, or if their activity levels decline, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer.. 12. Table of Contents. We may be unable to accurately predict the timing of revenue recognition from sales activity as it is often dependent on achieving certain events or performance milestones, and this inability could impact our operating results.. Our ability to recognize revenue is dependent upon several factors including the transfer of customer-specific information such as unique subscriber IDs, which are required for us to implement customers on our subscription-based platform and certain platform applications. Accordingly, if customers do not provide us with the specified information in a timely manner, our ability to recognize revenue will be delayed, which could adversely impact our operating results. In addition, implementation completion and acceptance of our subscription-based platform and certain platform applications by our customers must be achieved and delivery of services is required in connection with subscription-based products for us to recognize revenue. Some products, including those in our Provider Solutions segment, can require significant implementation lead times and the rate at which customer orders move from backlog to revenue generation in connection with these products may significantly affect the timing of revenue recognition.. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our products and services over the term of the subscription period, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized approximately 69% of our revenue from customers monthly over the terms of their subscription agreements, which have initial contract terms ranging from one to five years. As a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is related to subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscription agreements in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our products and services may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Additionally, our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Finally, the majority of costs associated with our sales cycles are incurred up front before revenue recognition commences, and therefore periods of strong sales performance may increase our costs in the near term, negatively affecting our financial performance.. We may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives unless we obtain additional financing, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all.. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash generated from operations, and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet anticipated working capital needs, new product development and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. However, we may need to raise additional funds in order to:. <U+0095>    develop new, or enhance existing, services or products;. <U+0095>    respond to competitive pressures;. <U+0095>    finance working capital requirements;. <U+0095>    acquire or invest in complementary businesses, technologies, content or products; or. <U+0095>    otherwise effectively execute our growth strategy.. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $131.1 million in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. In addition, in connection with the sale of our Patient Experience business for $65.5 million in cash, which was completed in February 2018, we anticipate recording a pre-tax book gain in the first quarter of 2018 between $34.0 million and $38.0 million. Following this disposition, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $1.00 per common share, or approximately $32.5 million, payable on April 3, 2018 to shareholders of record on March 6, 2018. We also have up to $50.0 million of availability under our Revolving Credit Facility, subject to certain covenants, which expires in November 2018. We expect to incur approximately $20.0 million of capital expenditures, software development and content purchases during 2018.. We actively review possible business acquisitions to complement or enhance our products and services. We may not have adequate cash and investments or availability under our Revolving Credit Facility to consummate one or more of these acquisitions. We cannot assure you that if we need additional financing that it will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund expansion, take advantage of available opportunities, develop or enhance services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders may be reduced.. We have significant goodwill and identifiable intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet that may be subject to impairment losses that would reduce our reported assets and earnings.. As of December 31, 2017, our balance sheet included goodwill of $110.3 million and net identifiable intangible assets of $68.8 million. There are inherent uncertainties in the estimates, judgments and assumptions used in assessing recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets. Economic, legal, regulatory, competitive, reputational, contractual, and other factors could result in future declines in the operating results of our business units or market values that do not support the carrying value of goodwill and identifiable. 13. Table of Contents. intangible assets. If the value of our goodwill and/or intangible assets is impaired, accounting rules require us to reduce their carrying value and report an impairment charge, which would reduce our reported assets and earnings for the period in which an impairment is recognized.. We may be affected by healthcare reform efforts and other changes in the healthcare industry that impact our clients.. Our clients are concentrated in the healthcare industry, which is subject to changing regulatory, economic, and political conditions. In 2017, we observed an increase in bankruptcies among healthcare providers. This decrease in creditworthiness among certain of our customers along with other economic challenges facing the healthcare sector caused our bad debt expense to increase from $640,000 in 2016 to $1.8 million in 2017. Continuance or escalation of this development could result in our inability to collect amounts owed from existing clients and decrease our ability to gain new clients, which could adversely impact our revenue, results of operations, and ability to execute on our growth strategy.. The U.S. Congress and certain state legislatures have passed or are considering laws and regulations intended to result in major changes to the U.S. healthcare system. The most prominent of these reform efforts, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, Affordable Care Act), was designed to increase access to affordable health insurance for U.S. citizens and improve quality of care, but it also has reduced government program spending and imposed operating costs and changes on many of our clients.. However, efforts by the presidential administration and certain members of Congress to repeal or make significant changes to the Affordable Care Act, its implementation and/or its interpretation have cast considerable uncertainty on the future of the law. For as part of tax reform legislation enacted in December 2017, Congress eliminated the financial penalty associated with the individual mandate, effective January 2019, which may impact the number of individuals that elect to purchase health insurance. In addition, a presidential executive order has been signed that directs agencies to minimize \"economic and regulatory burdens\" of the Affordable Care Act. There is uncertainty regarding whether, when, and how the Affordable Care Act will be changed, what alternative provisions, if any, will be enacted, the timing of enactment and implementation of alternative provisions, the impact of alternative provisions on providers as well as other healthcare industry participants, and how the law will be interpreted and implemented. Changes by Congress or government agencies could eliminate or alter provisions beneficial to us while leaving in place provisions reducing our reimbursement. Some of the recent changes in the healthcare industry have driven consolidation, particularly among health insurance providers. Other industry participants, such as large employer groups and their affiliates, may intensify competitive pressures. Efforts to repeal or change the Affordable Care Act or implement other initiatives intended to reform healthcare delivery and financial systems may have an adverse effect on our clients. Any such regulatory developments, as well as other healthcare-related or other developments that adversely impact the business or financial condition of our clients, could reduce the amount of business we receive from such clients and thus have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may not be able to demonstrate compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 in a timely manner, and the correction of any deficiencies identified during annual audits may be costly and could harm our business.. Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 requires our management to report on, and requires our independent public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards to be met are complex and may require significant process review, documentation and testing, as well as remediation efforts for any identified deficiencies. This process of review, documentation, testing and remediation may result in increased expenses and require significant attention from management and other internal and external resources. These requirements may also extend to acquired entities and our efforts to integrate those operations into our system of internal controls. Any material weaknesses identified during this process may preclude us from asserting the effectiveness of our internal controls. This may negatively affect our stock price if we cannot effectively remediate the issues identified in a timely manner.. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, including the new revenue recognition accounting standard, could adversely effect on our balance sheet, revenue, and results of operations, and could require a significant expenditure of time, attention and resources, especially by senior management.. Our accounting and financial reporting policies conform to GAAP, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. The application of accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time to time by various parties, including accounting standard setters and those who interpret the standards, such as the FASB and the SEC and our independent registered public accounting firm. Changes to regulations concerning revenue recognition could require us to alter our current revenue accounting practices and cause us to either defer revenue into a future period, or to recognize lower revenue in a current period. Likewise, changes to regulations concerning expense recognition could require us to alter our current expense accounting practices and cause us to defer recognition of expense into a future period, or to recognize increased expenses in a current period. Such changes could also cause us to alter the manner in which we contract for, sell, and incentivize sales of products and services. Changes to either revenue recognition or expense recognition accounting practices could affect our financial results.. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (\"ASU 2014-09\"), which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance. We have adopted. 14. Table of Contents. this standard utilizing the modified retrospective approach effective as of January 1, 2018. The updated guidance states that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance also provides for additional disclosures with respect to revenues and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. We will be finalizing our determination regarding the financial impact of the adoption of this accounting standard on our future financial statements in the first quarter of 2018, but it is possible that the adoption of such standard could have an adverse impact on the timing of our revenue recognition and thus adversely impact the amount of our revenue in any particular period.. Risks Related to Sales, Marketing and Competition. Our operating margins could be affected if our ongoing refinement to pricing models for our products and services is not accepted by our customers and the market.. We continue to make changes in the pricing of our product and service offerings so as to increase revenue and meet the needs of our customers. We cannot predict whether the current pricing of our products and services, or any ongoing refinements we make will be accepted by our existing customer base or by prospective customers. If our customers and potential customers decide not to accept our current or future pricing or product and service offerings, it could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Risks Related to Operations. We may be unable to adequately develop our systems, processes and support in a manner that will enable us to meet the demand for our services.. We have provided our online products and services for over 18 years and continue to expand our ability to provide our solutions on both a subscription and transactional basis over the Internet or otherwise. Our future success will depend on our ability to effectively develop and maintain our infrastructure, including procurement of additional hardware and software, and to implement the services, including customer support, necessary to meet the demand for our products and services. Our inability from time to time to successfully develop the necessary systems and implement the necessary services on a timely basis may result in our customers experiencing delays, interruptions and/or errors in their service. Such delays or interruptions may cause customers to become dissatisfied with our service and move to competing providers of workforce development and provider solutions services. If this happens, our reputation, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our business operations could be significantly disrupted if we lose members of, or fail to attract and integrate new members to, our management team.. Our future performance is substantially dependent on the continued services of our management team and our ability to attract, retain and motivate them. The loss of the services of any of our officers or senior managers, or the inability to attract additional officers or senior managers as appropriate, could harm our business, as we may not be able to find suitable replacements. We do not have employment agreements with any of our key personnel, other than our chief executive officer, and we do not maintain any \"key person\" life insurance policies.. We may not be able to attract, hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees and, as a result, we may not be able to effectively execute our growth strategy or maintain the quality of our services.. Our future success will depend on our ability to attract, train, motivate, and retain other highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, sales, customer support, coaching, and survey personnel. Competition for certain personnel is intense, especially for software developers, web designers, user experience and interaction designers, and sales personnel, and we may be unable to successfully attract sufficiently qualified personnel. We have experienced in the past, and continue to experience, difficulty hiring qualified personnel in a timely manner for these positions. The pool of qualified technical personnel, in particular, is limited in Nashville, Tennessee, where our headquarters are located. Similar challenges exist within our Provider Solutions segment in our locations in San Diego, California, and Boulder, Colorado. We will also need to maintain or increase the size of our staff to support our anticipated growth, without compromising the quality of our offerings or customer service. Our inability to locate, attract, hire, integrate and retain qualified personnel in sufficient numbers may reduce the quality of our services and impair our ability to grow.. We may not be able to upgrade our hardware and software technology infrastructure quickly enough to effectively meet demand for our services or our operational needs.. We must continue to obtain reasonably priced, commercially available hardware, operating software, and hosting services as well as continue to enhance our software and systems to accommodate the increased use of our platform, the increased content in our library, the expanding amount and type of data we store on behalf of our customers, and the resulting increase in operational demands on our business. Decisions about hardware and software enhancements are based in part on estimated forecasts of the growth in demand for our services. This growth in demand for our services is difficult to forecast and the potential audience for our services is widespread and dynamic. If we are unable to increase the data storage and processing capacity of our systems at least as fast as the growth in demand, our customers may encounter delays or disruptions in their service. Unscheduled downtime or reduced response time of our platforms could harm our business and also could discourage current and potential customers from using or continuing to use our. 15. Table of Contents. services and reduce future revenue. If we are unable to acquire, update, or enhance our technology infrastructure and systems quickly enough to effectively meet increased operational demands on our business, that may also have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Further, as we develop our platforms and rely on ever changing and improving technologies, we may be impeded by our customers' inability to adopt new technologies, such as web browsers, upon which new platform enhancements may be based.. Our network infrastructure and computer systems and software may fail.. An unexpected event (including but not limited to a cyber-security incident, telecommunications failure, fire, earthquake, or other catastrophic loss) at our Internet service providers' facilities or at our on-site data center facilities could cause the loss of critical data and prevent us from offering our products and services for an unknown period of time. System downtime could negatively affect our reputation and ability to sell our products and services and may expose us to significant third-party claims. Our cyber liability and business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. In addition, we rely on third parties to securely store our archived data, house our web server and network systems and connect us to the Internet. While our service providers have planned for certain contingencies, the failure by any of these third parties to provide these services satisfactorily and our inability to find suitable replacements would impair our ability to access archives and operate our systems and software, and our customers may encounter delays. Such disruptions could harm our reputation and cause customers to become dissatisfied and possibly take their business to a competing provider, which would adversely affect our revenues.. We may lose users and lose revenue if our security measures fail.. If the security measures that we use to protect customer or personal information are ineffective, we may lose users of our services, which could reduce our revenue, tarnish our reputation, and subject us to significant liability. We rely on security and authentication technology licensed from third parties. With this technology, we perform real-time credit card authorization and verification, as well as the encryption of other selected secure customer data. We cannot predict whether these security measures could be circumvented by new technological developments. Further, the audit processes, penetration and vulnerability testing, and controls used within our production platforms may not be sufficient to identify and prevent errors or deliberate misuse. In addition, our software, databases and servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic attacks, and similar disruptions. We may need to spend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. We cannot assure that we can prevent all security breaches.. A data breach or security incident could result in a loss of confidential data, give rise to remediation and other expenses, expose us to liability under HIPAA, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), state privacy laws, consumer protection laws, common law theories or other laws, subject us to litigation and federal and state governmental inquiries, damage our reputation, and otherwise be disruptive to our business.. We collect and store sensitive information, including intellectual property, individually identifiable health information, provider credentialing and privileging data, and other personally identifiable information, on our networks. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations. As a result, the continued development and enhancement of controls, processes, and practices designed to protect our information systems from attack, damage, or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. We have implemented multiple layers of security measures to protect this confidential data through technology, processes, and our people, and our defenses are monitored and routinely tested internally and by external parties. Despite these efforts, a data breach or security incident could result from a variety of circumstances and events, including third-party action, system errors, employee negligence or error, malfeasance, computer viruses, failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases, or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophic events, or threats from malicious persons and groups, new vulnerabilities, and advanced new attacks against information systems. In addition, third party IT vendors may not provide us with fixes or updates to hardware or software in a manner as to avoid an unauthorized loss or disclosure or to address a known vulnerability, which may subject us to known threats or downtime as a result of those delays.. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to data incidents that bypass our security measures, result in loss of confidential information, or disrupt our information systems or business. Data incidents could result in interruptions, delays, loss, access, misappropriation, and disclosure or corruption of data and could damage our reputation. In addition, data incidents could expose us and our customers to liability under privacy, security, and consumer protection laws, such as HIPAA, or litigation under these or other laws, including common law theories, and subject us to federal and state governmental inquiries or enforcement, especially if a large number of individuals are affected or if the compromised information is highly sensitive. Like many other organizations, we have experienced data incidents from time to time in the course of our business and handled these incidents in accordance with our internal policies and understanding of the applicable laws.. As cyber and other threats to confidential information continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. The occurrence of a data incident and the resulting potential costs and liabilities could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation.. 16. Table of Contents. We may experience errors or omissions in our software products or processes, including those that deliver provider credentialing, privileging and payer enrollment services for our hospitals and medical practice customers, and those that administer and report on hospital performance, and these errors could result in action taken against us that could harm our business.. Hospitals and medical practices use our credentialing, privileging, and payer enrollment software to manage, validate, and maintain their providers' credentials and authorization to practice in a particular facility, and to maintain authorization to perform care covered by insurance providers. In some instances, we rely on sources outside the Company for information that we use in our credentialing and privileging products. If errors or omissions occur that inaccurately validate or invalidate the credentials of a provider, or improperly deny or authorize a provider to practice in a hospital or medical practice, these errors or omissions could result in litigation brought against us either by our customers, the provider, or other interested parties. For example, an important element in a malpractice case brought against a hospital or other provider could be the validation of proper credentialing for the provider, and any errors or omissions in our products that provide these services could subject us to claims. Further, a list of providers' privileges may be made available to the general public by hospitals and medical practices, and errors in credentialing and privileging may result in damage to the hospital, medical practice, or provider.. Certain survey data will continue to be reported by us in relation to the Shared Contracts (as defined and described below), such as the survey data included as part of our CAHPS® Hospital survey is used by CMS to determine, in part, the amount of reimbursement payments to hospitals, and any errors in data collection, survey sampling, or statistical reporting could result in reduced reimbursements to our hospital customers if we are unable to correct these errors or ensure that they are corrected, and this could, in turn, result in litigation or claims against us. Further, this survey data reported to CMS is then published by CMS to the general public, and any errors we experience that result in incorrect scoring of our hospital customer may result in damage to that hospital's reputation, and the hospital may in turn bring litigation against us.. We may be required to indemnify against such claims, and defending against any such claims could be costly, and time-consuming and could negatively affect our business.. The non-renewal of our existing agreements with Laerdal could adversely affect our business and future results of operations.. As previously announced, Laerdal Medical A/S, a Norwegian company (\"Laerdal\"), provided notice that, upon the December 31, 2018 expiration of our existing agreements with Laerdal regarding the HeartCode and Resuscitation Quality Improvement (RQI) products, Laerdal does not intend to continue these existing agreements or enter into new agreements with HealthStream in relation to such products. Our Joint Marketing and Licensing Agreements with Laerdal for HeartCode and for RQI, respectively, will expire on December 31, 2018.. Revenues associated with the sales of HeartCode and RQI products have been significant in recent years, although margins on such products have been lower than HealthStream's average margin. While we are in active negotiations to deliver resuscitation programs to our customers following the expiration of our agreements with Laerdal, there is no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. To the extent we are not successful in these efforts and new resuscitation programs do not generate revenue and/or earnings in a manner that supplants the impact of these Laerdal agreements, our revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected.. There are certain risks associated with the sale of our Patient Experience business which was completed in February 2018.. In February 2018, we completed the sale of our PX business to Press Ganey. As a result of this transaction, we are now highly dependent on the success of our two remaining business segments, our workforce solutions segment and provider solutions segment. In addition, in connection with the sale of our PX business to Press Ganey, we agreed to indemnify Press Ganey with respect to certain matters, including the breach of our representations, warranties and covenants contained in the agreements related to this transaction. A material breach or inaccuracy of these representations, warranties and covenants in any of the agreements related to those transactions could lead to a claim against us, which could require us to pay substantial sums and incur related costs and expenses.. In addition, many of the customer contracts associated with the PX business were shared contracts (\"Shared Contracts\") under which we provide services in connection with our existing businesses and under which we previously (prior to the closing of the sale of our Patient Experience business) provided services in connection with the Patient Experience business. Under the terms of our agreement with Press Ganey, these Shared Contracts will be retained by us; however, Press Ganey will provide services to our customers under these Shared Contracts to the extent related to the Patient Experience business (and will be entitled to receive the benefit of payments made by our customers in connection therewith) until such time that Press Ganey obtains a replacement contract and/or an assignment with respect to the portion of the Shared Contract that relates to the Patient Experience business. As a result, if Press Ganey is unable to satisfy its obligations under the Shared Contracts or if other issues arise in connection this arrangement, we could incur operational or reputational losses that may adversely affect our results of operations or business. Moreover, under the terms of our transition services agreement with Press Ganey, we will provide certain technology, financial and operational transitional services for a period of time following the closing (not to exceed one year). In connection therewith, we have certain obligations (including indemnification obligations) in respect of which we may incur additional expense or liability.. 17. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Government Regulation, Content and Intellectual Property. Government regulation may subject us to investigation, litigation, or liability or require us to change the way we do business.. The laws and regulations that govern our business change rapidly. Evolving areas of law that are relevant to our business include privacy and security laws, proposed encryption laws, content regulation, information security accountability regulation, sales and use tax laws, and regulations and attempts to regulate activities on the Internet. For example, we are directly subject to certain requirements of the HIPAA privacy and security regulations. In addition, we are required through contracts with our customers known as \"business associate agreements\" to protect the privacy and security of certain personal and health related information. Further, government laws and regulations, such as the Affordable Care Act, that directly affect our customers, can have an indirect impact on our business.. The rapidly evolving and uncertain regulatory and technology environment could require us to change how we do business or incur additional costs. It may be difficult to predict how changes to these laws and regulations might affect our business. Our current and past privacy and security practices, including any breaches of protected health information or other data, could be subject to review or other investigation by various state and federal regulatory authorities or could become the subject of future litigation.. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those governing privacy and security, could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, subject us to contractual penalties (including termination of our customer agreements), adversely affect our ability to retain clients and attract new clients, damage our reputation, or otherwise have a detrimental impact on our business.. Any reduction or change in the regulation of continuing education and training in the healthcare industry may adversely affect our business.. A portion of our business model is dependent in part on required training and continuing education for healthcare professionals and other healthcare workers resulting from regulations of state and federal agencies, state licensing boards and professional organizations. Any change in these regulations that reduce the requirements for continuing education and training for the healthcare industry could harm our business. In addition, a portion of our business with pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers and hospitals is predicated on our ability to maintain accreditation status with organizations such as the ACCME, ANCC, and ACPE. The failure to maintain status as an accredited provider could have a detrimental effect on our business.. We may be liable to third parties for content that is available from our online library.. We may be liable to third parties for the content in our online library if the text, graphics, software, or other content in our library violates copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights, if our content partners violate their contractual obligations to others by providing content to our library, or if the content is inaccurate, incomplete, or does not conform to accepted standards of care in the healthcare profession. Further, we may be liable to these content partners if we improperly release and lose control of their content stored on our platform either due to security issues or through improper release to customers who have not paid for access to this content. We attempt to minimize these types of liabilities by requiring representations and warranties relating to our content partners' ownership of the rights to distribute as well as the accuracy of their content. We also take necessary measures to review this content ourselves. Although our agreements with our content partners in most instances contain provisions providing for indemnification by the content providers in the event of inaccurate content, our content partners may not have the financial resources to meet these indemnification obligations. Alleged liability could harm our business by damaging our reputation, requiring us to incur legal costs in defense, exposing us to awards of damages and costs, and diverting management's attention away from our business.. Protection of certain intellectual property may be difficult and costly, and our inability to protect our intellectual property could reduce the value of our products and services.. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, as well as the intellectual property rights of our strategic partners, a third party could, without authorization, copy or otherwise misappropriate our content, information from our databases, or other intellectual property, including that of our third party strategic partners. Our agreements with employees, consultants and others who participate in development activities could be breached and result in our trade secrets becoming known. Alternatively, competitors and other third parties may independently develop or create content or systems that do not infringe our intellectual property rights. We may not have adequate remedies for such breaches or protections against such competitor developments. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and effective intellectual property protection may not be available in those jurisdictions.. Our business could be harmed if unauthorized parties infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property, proprietary systems, content, platform, services or other information, or the intellectual property of our strategic partners. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property through copyright, trademarks, and other controls, as well as our efforts to protect the intellectual property of our strategic partners, may not be adequate. For instance, we may not be able to secure trademark or service mark registrations for marks in the United States or in foreign countries, or to secure patents for our proprietary products and services, and even if we are successful in obtaining patent and/or trademark registrations, these registrations may be opposed or invalidated by a third party. We also have certain contractual obligations to protect the intellectual property of our strategic partners, and could be required to indemnify such strategic partners if we do not adequately provide such protections.. 18. Table of Contents. There has been substantial litigation in the software services and technology industries regarding intellectual property assets, particularly patents. Third parties may claim infringement by us with respect to current and future products, trademarks or other proprietary rights, and we may counterclaim against such third parties in such actions. Any such claims or counterclaims could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management's attention, cause product release delays, require us to redesign our products, restrict our use of the intellectual property subject to such claim, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could have an adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and operating results. Such royalty and licensing agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all.. We may be liable for infringing the intellectual property rights of others.. Our competitors may develop similar intellectual property, duplicate our products and/or services, or design around any patents or other intellectual property rights we hold. In the future, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the patents, intellectual property or other proprietary rights of third parties, which could be time consuming and costly and have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Intellectual property infringement claims could be made against us, especially as the number of our competitors grows. These claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and divert our attention from operating our company and result in a temporary inability to use the intellectual property subject to such claim. In addition, if we and/or our affiliates and customers become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and develop comparable non-infringing intellectual property, to obtain a license, or to cease providing the content or services that contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing intellectual property or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. A variety of other state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, security, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal data. Many foreign data privacy regulations (including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which becomes effective in the European Union on May 25, 2018, and China's new Cybersecurity Law) are more stringent than those in the United States. These laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and changing, and could have an adverse effect on our operations. Companies' obligations and requirements under these laws and regulations are subject to uncertainty in how they may be interpreted by government authorities and regulators. The costs of compliance with, and the other burdens imposed by, these and other laws or regulatory actions may increase our operational costs, prevent us from selling our products or services, and/or affect our ability to invest in or jointly develop products. We may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could significantly impact the Company.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"Tax Act\"), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, makes significant changes to the taxation of U.S. business entities. These changes include a permanent reduction to the federal corporate income tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent, among others. The Company is currently evaluating the Tax Act with its professional advisors; the full impact of the Tax Act on the Company in future periods cannot be determined at this time and the Company provides no assurances in that regard."
