[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Our future results may be affected by a number of factors over which we have little or no control.  The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements as discussed in \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" above. The following issues, uncertainties, and risks, among others, should be considered in evaluating our business and growth outlook. If any of the following risk factors, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material, actually occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and you may lose all or a significant part of your investment.. Our business is subject to general economic, credit, business, and regulatory factors affecting the trucking industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results.. The truckload industry is highly cyclical, and our business is dependent on a number of factors that may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, many of which are beyond our control.  We believe that some of the most significant of these factors are economic changes that affect supply and demand in transportation markets, such as:. 9. • recessionary economic cycles, such as the period from 2007 through 2009 and the 2016 freight environment, which were characterized by weak demand and downward pressure on rates;       • downturns in customers' business cycles, including as a result of declines in consumer spending;       • changes in customers' inventory levels and practices, including shrinking product/package size, and in the availability of funding for their working capital;     • excess tractor and trailer capacity in the trucking industry in comparison with shipping demand;       • changes in the way our customers choose to source or utilize our services;     • the rate of unemployment and availability of and compensation for alternative jobs for truck drivers, which impact the pool of available drivers and our driver compensation costs;     • activity in key economic indicators such as manufacturing of automobiles and durable goods, and housing construction;     • supply chain disruptions due to factors such as weather and railroad congestion;       • changes in interest rates;     • rising costs of healthcare;     • global currency markets and the relative strength of the U.S. Dollar and potential impacts to certain customers' financial strength and overall freight demand; and       • global supply and demand for crude oil and its impact on domestic fuel costs.. Economic conditions that decrease shipping demand and increase the supply of available tractors and trailers can exert downward pressure on rates and equipment utilization, thereby decreasing asset productivity. The risks associated with these factors are heightened when the United States economy is weakened. Some of the principal risks during such times, which risks we have experienced during prior recessionary periods, are as follows:. • we may experience a reduction in overall freight levels, which may impair our asset utilization;     • certain of our customers may face credit issues and could experience cash flow problems that may lead to payment delays, increased credit risk, bankruptcies and other financial hardships that could result in even lower freight demand and may require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts;     • freight patterns may change as supply chains are redesigned, resulting in an imbalance between our capacity and our customers' freight demand;     • customers may solicit bids for freight from multiple trucking companies or select competitors that offer lower rates from among existing choices in an attempt to lower their costs and we might be forced to lower our rates or lose freight;     • we may be forced to accept freight from freight brokers, where freight rates are typically lower, or may be forced to incur more non-revenue miles to obtain loads; and     • the resale value of our equipment may decline, which could negatively impact our earnings and cash flows.. 10. We also are subject to potential increases in various costs and other events that are outside of our control that could materially reduce our profitability if we are unable to increase our rates sufficiently. Such cost increases include, but are not limited to, increases in fuel and energy prices, driver and office employee wages, purchased transportation costs, taxes and interest rates, tolls, license and registration fees, insurance premiums and claims, revenue equipment and related maintenance costs, tires and other components, and healthcare and other benefits for our employees.  We could be affected by strikes or other work stoppages at our service centers or at customer, port, border, or other shipping locations.  Further, we may be unable to appropriately adjust our costs and staffing levels to changing market demands. In periods of rapid change, it is more difficult to match our staffing levels to our business needs.. Changing impacts of regulatory measures could impair our operating efficiency and productivity, decrease our operating revenues and profitability, and result in higher operating costs.  In addition, declines in the resale value of revenue equipment can also affect our profitability and cash flows. From time to time, various Unites States federal, state, or local taxes are also increased, including taxes on fuels. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any such increase applicable to us will be enacted, but such an increase could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.. In addition, we cannot predict future economic conditions, fuel price fluctuations, or how consumer confidence could be affected by actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, government efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or group located in a foreign state, or heightened security requirements. Enhanced security measures in connection with such events could impair our operating efficiency and productivity and result in higher operating costs.. Our growth may not continue at historical rates, if at all, and any decrease in revenues or profits may impair our ability to implement our business strategy, which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.. Historically, we have experienced significant growth in revenue and profits, although there have been times, particularly after acquisitions and including 2015 and 2016, when our revenue and/or profitability decreased. There can be no assurance that our business will grow in a similar fashion in the future, or at all, or that we can effectively adapt our management, administrative, and operational systems to respond to any future growth. Further, there can be no assurance that our operating margins will not be adversely affected by future changes in and expansion of our business or by changes in economic conditions.. We have established terminals throughout the contiguous United States in order to serve markets in various regions. These regional operations require the commitment of additional personnel and revenue equipment, as well as management resources, for future development and establishing terminals and operations in new markets could require more time, resources or a more substantial financial commitment than anticipated. Should the growth in our regional operations stagnate or decline, the results of our operations could be adversely affected. If we seek to further expand, it may become more difficult to identify large cities that can support a terminal and we may expand into smaller cities where there is insufficient economic activity, fewer opportunities for growth and fewer drivers and non-driver personnel to support the terminal. We may encounter operating conditions in these new markets, as well as our current markets, that differ substantially from our current operations and customer relationships and appropriate freight rates in new markets could be challenging to attain.  We may not be able to duplicate or sustain our operating strategy and establishing service centers or terminals and operations in new markets could require more time or resources, or a more substantial financial commitment than anticipated.  These challenges may negatively impact our growth, which could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy and our results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, and numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to improve our profitability, limit growth opportunities, and could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.. Numerous competitive factors present in our industry could impair our ability to maintain or improve our current profitability, limit our prospects for growth, and could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.  These factors include the following:. 11. • we compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers, railroads, intermodal companies, and other transportation and logistics companies, many of which have access to more equipment and greater capital resources than we do;     • many of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or to maintain or expand our business or may require us to reduce our freight rates in order to maintain business and keep our equipment productive;     • a significant portion of our business is in the retail industry, which continues to undergo a shift away from the traditional brick and mortar model towards e-commerce, and this shift could impact the manner in which our customers source or utilize our services;      • many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called \"core carriers\" as approved service providers or by engaging dedicated providers, and we may not be selected;     • many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some of our business to competitors;     • the trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size, and we may have difficulty competing with these larger carriers;     • the market for qualified drivers is increasingly competitive, and our inability to attract and retain drivers could reduce our equipment utilization or cause us to increase compensation to our drivers, both of which would adversely affect our profitability;     • competition from freight logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and freight rates;     • economies of scale that procurement aggregation providers may pass on to smaller carriers may improve such carriers' ability to compete with us;     • advances in technology may require us to increase investments in order to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments; and     • higher fuel prices and, in turn, higher fuel surcharges to our customers may cause some of our customers to consider freight transportation alternatives, including rail transportation.. We are highly dependent on a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. We generate a significant portion of our operating revenue from our major customers.  For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, our top 25 customers, based on operating revenue, accounted for approximately 72%, 76%, and 73%, respectively, of our operating revenue, and certain individual customers accounted for more than 5% of our operating revenue, and one was in excess of 10% of our operating revenue in 2017 and 2016. Generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our major customers.  A substantial portion of our freight is from customers in the retail industry. As such, our volumes are largely dependent on consumer spending and retail sales, and our results may be more susceptible to trends in unemployment and retail sales than carriers that do not have this concentration. In addition, our major customers engage in bid processes and other activities periodically (including currently) in an attempt to lower their costs of transportation. We may not choose to participate in these bids or, if we participate, may not be awarded the freight, either of which could result in a reduction of our freight volumes with these customers. In this event, we could be required to replace the volumes elsewhere at uncertain rates and volumes, suffer reduced equipment utilization, or reduce the size of our fleet.  In addition, the size and market concentration of some of our customers may allow them to exert increased pressure on the prices, margins and non-monetary terms of our contracts. Failure to retain our existing customers, or enter into relationships with new customers, each on acceptable terms, could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to meet our current and long-term financial forecasts.. 12. Economic conditions and capital markets may materially adversely affect our customers and their ability to remain solvent. Our customers' financial difficulties can negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition, especially if they were to delay or default on payments to us. If any of our major customers experience financial hardship, the demand for our services could decrease which could negatively affect our operating results.  Further, if one or more of our major customers were to seek protection under bankruptcy laws, we might not receive payment for a significant amount of services rendered and, under certain circumstances, might have to return payments made by such customers during the 90 days prior to the bankruptcy filing, which may cause an adverse impact on our profitability and operations. Generally, we do not have contractual relationships that guarantee any minimum volumes with our customers, and we cannot assure you that our customer relationships will continue as presently in effect.  Certain services we provide customers are subject to longer term written contracts. However, certain of these contracts contain cancellation clauses, including our \"evergreen\" contracts, which automatically renew for one year terms but that can be terminated more easily. There is no assurance any of our customers, including those with longer term contracts, will continue to utilize our services, renew our existing contracts, or continue at the same volume levels. Despite the existence of contractual arrangements with our customers, certain of our customers may nonetheless engage in competitive bidding processes that could negatively impact our contractual relationship. In addition, certain of our major customers may increasingly use their own truckload and delivery fleets, which would reduce our freight volumes. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers, including our customers with longer term contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The incurrence of indebtedness under our Credit Agreement or lack of access to other financing sources could have adverse consequences on our future operations.. Historically, we have generally funded our growth, working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other general corporate expenses through cash flows generated from operations.  However, in conjunction with the 2013 acquisition of GTI, we entered into a five-year, unsecured credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (the \"Credit Agreement\"), in the original amount of $250.0 million, under which we had no outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2017.  If we need to incur indebtedness in the future, any borrowings we make under the Credit Agreement or from other sources could have adverse consequences on our future operations by reducing the availability of our future cash flows, limiting our flexibility regarding future expenditures, and making us more vulnerable to changes in the industry and economy.  Further, if borrowings under our Credit Agreement become unavailable and we need to obtain financing from other sources, we may be unable to obtain terms as favorable as the current terms of the Credit Agreement, or to secure financing at all, which could have adverse consequences on our future operations.. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect our profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and obtain financing on favorable terms.. The truckload industry is capital intensive, and our historical policy of operating newer equipment requires us to expend significant amounts annually to maintain a newer average age for our fleet of revenue equipment. We expect to pay for projected capital expenditures with cash flows from operations, proceeds from sales of equipment being replaced, and with proceeds of borrowings if necessary. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, or proceeds from sales of equipment being replaced, or utilize borrowing capacity on our Credit Agreement, we would need to seek alternative sources of capital, including additional financing, to meet our capital requirements. In the event that we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain additional financing on favorable terms in the future, we may have to limit our fleet size, enter into less favorable financing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability.. Our profitability may be materially adversely impacted if our capital investments do not match customer demand for invested resources or if there is a decline in the availability of funding sources for these investments.. Our operations require significant capital investments. The amount and timing of such investments depend on various factors, including anticipated freight demand and the price and availability of assets. If anticipated demand differs materially from actual usage, we may have too many or too few assets. Moreover, resource requirements vary based on customer demand, which may be subject to seasonal or general economic conditions. During periods of decreased customer demand, our asset utilization may suffer, and we may be forced to sell equipment on the open market or turn in equipment under certain equipment leases in order to right size our fleet.  This could cause us to incur losses on such sales or require payments in connection with the return of such equipment, particularly during times of a softer used equipment market, either of which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability.   Our ability to select profitable freight and adapt to changes in customer transportation requirements is important to efficiently deploy resources and make capital investments in tractors and trailers.. 13. Increased prices for new revenue equipment, design changes of new engines, decreased availability of new revenue equipment, and decreased demand for and value of used equipment could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and profitability.. We are subject to risk with respect to higher prices for new tractors.  We have experienced an increase in prices for new tractors over the past few years, and the resale value of the tractors has not increased to the same extent.  Prices have increased and may continue to increase, due to, among other reasons, (i) increases in commodity prices, (ii) government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors, trailers, and diesel engines, and (iii) the pricing discretion of equipment manufacturers. In addition, we have recently equipped our tractors with safety, aerodynamic, and other options that increase the price of new equipment.  More restrictive regulations related to emissions and fuel efficiency standards have required vendors to introduce new engines and will require more fuel-efficient trailers.  Compliance with such regulations has increased the cost of our new tractors, may increase the cost of new trailers, could impair equipment productivity, in some cases, result in lower fuel mileage, and increase our operating expenses.  As a result, we expect to continue to pay increased prices for equipment and incur additional expenses for the foreseeable future.. Tractor and trailer vendors may reduce their manufacturing output in response to lower demand for their products in economic downturns or shortages of component parts.  A decrease in vendor output may have a materially adverse effect on our ability to purchase a quantity of new revenue equipment that is sufficient to sustain our desired growth rate and to maintain a late-model fleet.  Moreover, an inability to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors or trailers could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation.. The market for used equipment is cyclical and can be volatile, and any downturn in the market could negatively impact our earnings and cash flows. During periods of higher used equipment values, we have recognized significant gains on the sale of our used tractors and trailers, in part because of a strong used equipment market and our historical practice of capitalizing on changes in the used equipment market. Conversely, during periods of lower used equipment values, we may generate lower gains on sale, or even losses, or we may have to record impairments of the carrying value of our equipment, any of which would reduce our earnings and cash flows, and could adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. Alternatively, we could decide, or be forced, to operate our equipment longer, which could negatively impact maintenance and repairs expense, customer service, and driver satisfaction.. If fuel prices increase significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our operations are dependent upon fuel. Prices and availability of petroleum products are subject to political, economic, weather- related, geographic and market factors that are outside our control and each of which may lead to fluctuations in the cost of fuel. Fuel prices also are affected by the rising demand for fuel in developing countries, and could be materially adversely affected by the use of crude oil and oil reserves for purposes other than fuel production and by diminished drilling activity.  Such events may lead not only to increases in fuel prices, but also to fuel shortages and disruptions in the fuel supply chain.  Fuel also is subject to regional pricing differences and is often more expensive in certain areas where we operate.. Because our operations are dependent upon fuel, significant increases in fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to pass increased costs on to customers through rate increases or fuel surcharges. Even if we are able to pass some increased costs on to customers, fuel surcharge programs generally do not protect us against all of the increases in fuel prices. Moreover, in times of rising fuel prices, the lag between purchasing the fuel, and the billing for the surcharge (which typically is based on the prior week's average price), can negatively impact our earnings and cash flows. In addition, the terms of each customer's fuel surcharge agreement vary, and certain customers have sought to modify the terms of their fuel surcharge agreements to minimize recoverability for fuel price increases. Our results of operations and cash flows would be negatively affected to the extent we cannot recover higher fuel costs or fail to improve our fuel price protection through our fuel surcharge program. Increases in fuel prices, or a shortage or rationing of fuel, could also materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Increases in driver compensation or difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including independent contractors, may have a materially adverse effect on our profitability and the ability to maintain or grow our fleet.. Like many truckload carriers, we experience substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers which includes to a lesser extent, our engagement of independent contractors. Independent contractors currently represent a small portion of our fleet.  The truckload industry is subject to a shortage of qualified drivers.  Such shortage is exacerbated during periods of economic expansion, in which alternative employment opportunities are more plentiful and freight demand increases,. 14. or during periods of economic downturns.  Regulatory requirements, including those related to safety ratings, ELD's and hours-of-service (\"HOS\") changes, an improved economy, and aging of the driver workforce, could further reduce the pool of eligible drivers or force us to increase driver compensation to attract and retain drivers.  We have seen evidence that CSA and stricter hours-of-service regulations adopted by the DOT in the past have tightened, and, to the extent new regulations are enacted, may continue to tighten, the market for eligible drivers.  We believe the required implementation of ELD's in December 2017 has and may further tighten such market.  We believe the shortage of qualified drivers and intense competition for drivers from other trucking companies will create difficulties in maintaining or increasing the number of drivers and may restrain our ability to engage a sufficient number of drivers, and our inability to do so may negatively impact our operations. Further, the compensation we offer our drivers is subject to market conditions, and we may find it necessary to increase driver compensation in future periods.. In addition, we and many other truckload carriers suffer from a high turnover rate of drivers.  This high turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to operate existing revenue equipment.  We also employ driver hiring standards which we believe are more rigorous than the hiring standards employed in general in our industry and could further reduce the pool of available drivers from which we would hire.  If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of drivers, we could be forced to, among other things, adjust our compensation packages, increase the number of our tractors without drivers, or operate with fewer tractors and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, any of which could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations.. If our independent contractors are deemed by regulators or judicial process to be employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. While the size of our independent contractor fleet has been significantly reduced, independent contractors have historically comprised a portion of our fleet. Tax and other regulatory authorities, as well as independent contractors themselves, have increasingly asserted that independent contractors in the trucking industry are employees rather than independent contractors, for a variety of purposes, including income tax withholding, workers' compensation, wage and hour compensation, unemployment, and other issues. Federal legislators have introduced legislation in the past to make it easier for tax and other authorities to reclassify independent contractor drivers as employees, including legislation to increase the recordkeeping requirements for those that engage independent contractor drivers and to heighten the penalties of companies who misclassify their employees and are found to have violated employees' overtime and/or wage requirements.  Additionally, federal legislators have sought to abolish the current safe harbor allowing taxpayers meeting certain criteria to treat individuals as independent contractors if they are following a long-standing, recognized practice, extend the Fair Labor Standards Act to independent contractors, and impose notice requirements based upon employment or independent contractor status and fines for failure to comply.  Some states have put initiatives in place to increase their revenues from items such as unemployment, workers' compensation, and income taxes, and a reclassification of independent contractors as employees would help states with this initiative.  Further, class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against certain members of our industry seeking to reclassify independent contractors as employees for a variety of purposes, including workers' compensation and health care coverage.  Taxing and other regulatory authorities and courts apply a variety of standards in their determination of independent contractor status. Our classification of independent contractors has been the subject of audits by such authorities from time to time.  While we have been successful in continuing to classify our independent contractor drivers as independent contractors and not employees, we may be unsuccessful in defending that position in the future. If our independent contractors are determined to be our employees, we would incur additional exposure under federal and state tax, workers' compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment, and tort laws, including for prior periods, as well as potential liability for employee benefits and tax withholdings.. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and profitability.. We operate in the United States pursuant to operating authority granted by the DOT. Our company drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the DOT, including those relating to CSA safety performance and measurements, drug and alcohol testing, driver safety performance, and HOS.  Matters such as weight, equipment dimensions, exhaust emissions, and fuel efficiency are also subject to government regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel efficiency, exhaust emissions, HOS, ergonomics, on-board reporting of operations, collective bargaining, security at ports, speed limiters, driver training, and other matters affecting safety or operating methods. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us or by our suppliers who pass the costs on to us through higher prices could adversely affect our results of operations.  In addition, the Trump administration has indicated a desire to reduce regulatory burdens that constrain growth and productivity, and also to introduce legislation such as infrastructure spending, that could improve growth and productivity. Changes in regulations, such as those related to trailer size limits, HOS, and mandating ELD's, could increase capacity in the industry or improve the position of certain competitors, either of which could negatively impact pricing and volumes, or require additional investments by us.  The short and long term impacts of changes in. 15. legislation or regulations are difficult to predict and could materially adversely affect our operations.  The Regulation section in Item 1 of this Annual Report discusses several proposed, pending, and final regulations that could significantly impact our business and operations.. The CSA program adopted by the FMCSA could adversely affect our profitability and operations, our ability to maintain or grow our fleet, and our customer relationships.. Under CSA, fleets are evaluated and ranked against their peers based on certain safety-related standards.  As a result, our fleet could be ranked poorly as compared to peer carriers. The occurrence of future deficiencies could affect driver recruitment by causing high-quality drivers to seek employment with other carriers, limit the pool of available drivers, or could cause our customers to direct their business away from us and to carriers with higher fleet safety rankings, either of which would adversely affect our results of operations.  Additionally, competition for drivers with favorable safety backgrounds may increase and thus could necessitate increases in driver-related compensation costs.  Further, we may incur greater than expected expenses in our attempts to improve unfavorable scores.. We have in the past, and may again in the future, exceed the FMCSA's established intervention thresholds in any of the seven CSA safety-related categories.  Based on these unfavorable ratings, we may be prioritized for an intervention action or roadside inspection, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations.  In addition, customers may be less likely to assign loads to us.  We have put procedures in place in an attempt to address areas where we have exceeded the thresholds.  However, we cannot assure you these measures will be effective.. In December 2015, Congress passed the FAST Act, which directs the FMCSA to conduct studies of the scoring system used to generate CSA rankings to determine if it is effective in identifying high-risk carriers and predicting future crash risk. This study was conducted and delivered to the FMCSA in June 2017 with several recommendations to make the CSA program more fair, accurate and reliable.  The FMCSA is expected to provide a report to Congress in early 2018 outlining the changes it will make to the CSA program in response to the study.  It is unclear if, when, and to what extent such change will occur. However, any changes that increase the likelihood of us receiving unfavorable scores could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.. Receipt of an unfavorable DOT safety rating could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and profitability.. We currently have a satisfactory DOT rating, which is the highest available rating under the current safety rating scale.  If we were to receive a conditional or unsatisfactory DOT safety rating, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations as customer contracts may require a satisfactory DOT safety rating, and a conditional or unsatisfactory rating could materially adversely affect or restrict our operations.. The FMCSA has proposed regulations that would modify the existing rating system and the safety labels assigned to motor carriers evaluated by the DOT.  Under the regulations that were proposed in 2016, the methodology for determining a carrier's DOT safety rating would be expanded to include the on-road safety performance of the carrier's drivers and equipment, as well as results obtained from investigations. Exceeding certain thresholds based on such performance or results would cause a carrier to receive an unfit safety rating. The proposed regulations were withdrawn in March 2017, but the FMCSA noted that a similar process may be initiated in the future.  If similar regulations were enacted and we were to receive an unfit or other negative safety rating, our business would be materially adversely affected in the same manner as if we received a conditional or unsatisfactory safety rating under the current regulations. In addition, poor safety performance could lead to increased risk of liability, increased insurance, maintenance and equipment costs and potential loss of customers, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Compliance with various environmental laws and regulations may increase our costs of operations and non-compliance with such laws and regulations could result in substantial fines or penalties.. In addition to direct regulation under the DOT and related agencies, we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the hauling and handling of hazardous materials, waste oil, fuel storage tanks, air emissions from our vehicles and facilities, engine idling, and discharge and retention of storm water.  Our truck terminals often are located in industrial areas where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination may have occurred or could occur. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. Certain of our facilities have waste oil or fuel storage tanks and fueling islands.  A small percentage of our freight consists of low-grade hazardous substances, which subjects us to a wide array of regulations.  Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of hazardous substances we transport, if soil or groundwater contamination. 16. is found at our facilities or results from our operations, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to cleanup costs and liabilities, including substantial fines or penalties or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results.. EPA regulations limiting exhaust emissions became more restrictive in 2010 when an executive memorandum was signed directing the NHTSA and the EPA to develop new, stricter fuel efficiency standards for heavy trucks. In 2011, the NHTSA and the EPA adopted final rules that established the Phase 1 Standards.  The Phase 1 Standards apply to tractor model years 2014 to 2018, which are required to achieve an approximate 20 percent reduction in fuel consumption by model year 2018, and equates to approximately four gallons of fuel for every 100 miles traveled. In addition, in October 2016, the EPA and NHTSA published the final rule establishing the Phase 2 Standards that will apply to trailers beginning with model year 2018 and tractors beginning with model year 2021.  The Phase 2 Standards require nine percent and 25 percent reductions in emissions and fuel consumption for trailers and tractors, respectively, by 2027.  We believe these requirements could result in additional increases in new tractor and trailer prices and additional parts and maintenance costs incurred to retrofit our tractors and trailers with technology to achieve compliance with such standards, which could adversely affect our operating results and profitability, particularly if such costs are not offset by potential fuel savings. We cannot predict, however, the extent to which our operations and productivity will be impacted.  In October 2017, the EPA announced a proposal to repeal the Phase 2 Standards as they relate to gliders (which mix refurbished older components, including transmissions and pre-emission-rule engines, with a new frame, cab, steer axle, wheels, and other standard equipment). Additionally, implementation of the Phase 2 Standards as they relate to trailers has been delayed due to a provisional stay granted in October 2017 by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, which is overseeing a case against the EPA by the Truck Trailer Manufacturers Association, Inc. regarding the Phase 2 Standards.  If the trailer provisions of the Phase 2 Standards are permanently removed, we would expect that the Phase 2 Standards would have a reduced effect on our operations.  In addition, future additional emission regulations are possible.  Any such regulations that impose restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases could adversely affect our operations and financial results.  Until the timing, scope, and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results; however, any future regulation could impair our operating efficiency and productivity and result in higher operating costs.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"Tax Act\"). The new law requires complex computations not previously required by U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the new law and the accounting for such provisions require preparation and analysis of information not previously required or regularly produced. In addition, the U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in future periods. Accordingly, while we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the new law in our accompanying audited financial statements, further regulatory or GAAP accounting guidance for the law, our further analysis on the application of the law, and refinement of our initial estimates and calculations could materially change our current provisional estimates, which could in turn materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.  There are also likely to be significant future impacts that these tax reforms will have on our future financial results and our business strategies. In addition, there is a risk that states or foreign jurisdictions may amend their tax laws in response to these tax reforms, which could have a material impact on our future results.. We may not make acquisitions in the future, or if we do, we may not be successful in integrating the acquired company, either of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. Historically, acquisitions have been a part of our growth. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, or consummating any future acquisitions.  If we fail to make any future acquisitions, our historical growth rate could be materially and adversely affected.   If we succeed in consummating future acquisitions, our business, financial condition and results of operations, may be materially adversely affected because:. 17. • some of the acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenue, earnings, or cash flows;      • we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us or otherwise exceed our estimates;      • we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully, or at all, and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical, or financial problems;      • acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management, and divert our resources;      • we may experience difficulties operating in markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience;      • we could lose customers, employees, and drivers of any acquired company;      • we may experience potential future impairment charges, write-offs, write-downs, or restructuring charges; and     • we may issue dilutive equity securities, incur indebtedness, and/or incur large one-time expenses.. If we are unable to retain our key employees or find, develop and retain a core group of managers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We are highly dependent upon the services of several executive officers and key management employees. The loss of any of their services could have a short-term, negative impact on our operations and profitability. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key employees or executive officers. Turnover, planned or otherwise, in these or other key leadership positions may materially adversely affect our ability to manage our business efficiently and effectively, and such turnover can be disruptive and distracting to management, may lead to additional departures of existing personnel, and could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations and continuing our growth. Failing to develop and retain a core group of managers could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. Seasonality and the impact of weather and other catastrophic events affect our operations and profitability.. Weather and other seasonal events could adversely affect our operating results.  Our tractor productivity decreases during the winter season because inclement weather impedes operations, and some shippers reduce their shipments after the winter holiday season. Revenue can also be affected by bad weather and holidays, since revenue is directly related to available working days of shippers.  At the same time, operating expenses increase and fuel efficiency declines because of engine idling, while harsh weather creates higher accident frequency, increased claims, and more equipment repairs.  In addition, many of our customers, particularly those in the retail industry where we have a large presence, demand additional capacity during the fourth quarter, which limits our ability to take advantage of more attractive spot market rates that generally exist during such periods.  Further, despite our efforts to meet such demands, we may fail to do so, which may result in lost future business opportunities with such customers, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operations.  Recently, the duration of this increased period of demand in the fourth quarter has shortened, with certain customers requiring the same volume of shipments over a more condensed timeframe, resulting in increased stress and demand on our network, people, and systems.  If this trend continues, it could make satisfying our customers and maintaining the quality of our service during the fourth quarter increasingly difficult.  We may also suffer from weather-related or other unforeseen events such as tornadoes, hurricanes, blizzards, ice storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, and explosions.  These events may disrupt fuel supplies, increase fuel costs, disrupt freight shipments or routes, affect regional economies, destroy our assets, or adversely affect the business or financial condition of our customers, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations or make our results of operations more volatile.. We self-insure for a significant portion of our claims exposure, which could significantly increase the volatility of, and decrease the amount of, our earnings.. Our future insurance and claims expense might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. Our business results in a substantial number of claims and litigation related to workers' compensation, auto liability, general liability, cargo and property. 18. damage claims, personal injuries, and employment issues as well as employees' health insurance. We self-insure for a portion of our claims, which could increase the volatility of, and decrease the amount of, our earnings, and could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. We are also responsible for our legal expenses relating to such claims. We reserve currently for anticipated losses and related expenses. We periodically evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect trends in our own experience as well as industry trends. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses over our reserved amounts. We do not currently maintain directors' and officers' insurance coverage, although we are obligated to indemnify them against certain liabilities they may incur while serving in such capacities.. We maintain insurance for most risks above the amounts for which we self-insure with licensed insurance carriers.   If any claim were to exceed our coverage, or fall outside the aggregate coverage limit, we would bear the excess or uncovered amount, in addition to our other self-insured amounts.  Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits are sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed our aggregate coverage limits. Insurance carriers that provide excess insurance coverage to us currently and for past claim years have encountered financial issues. Recently there have been several insurance carriers that have exited the excess reinsurance market.  Insurance carriers have recently raised premiums and collateral requirements for many businesses, including trucking companies. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase if we have a similar experience at renewal, or we could find it necessary to raise our self-insured retention or decrease our aggregate coverage limits when our policies are renewed or replaced.  Should these expenses increase, we become unable to find excess coverage in amounts we deem sufficient, we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, we experience a claim for which we do not have coverage, or we have to increase our reserves or collateral, there could be a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Healthcare legislation and inflationary cost increases also could negatively impact financial results by increasing annual employee healthcare costs going forward.  We cannot presently determine the extent of the impact healthcare costs will have on our financial performance.  In addition, rising healthcare costs could force us to make changes to existing benefits program, which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain employees.. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems and a system failure or unavailability or an inability to effectively upgrade our information systems could cause a significant disruption to our business and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems and infrastructure including our communications with our fleet of revenue equipment. We currently use a centralized computer network and regular communication to achieve system-wide load coordination.  Our operating system is critical to understanding customer demands, accepting and planning loads, dispatching equipment and drivers, and billing and collecting for our services.  Our financial reporting system is critical to producing accurate and timely financial statements and analyzing business information to help us manage effectively.. Our operations and those of our technology and communications service providers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, internet failures, computer viruses, deliberate attacks of unauthorized access to systems, denial-of-service attacks on websites and other events beyond our control. Although we attempt to reduce the risk of disruption to our business operations should a disaster occur through redundant computer systems and networks and backup systems, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective.  If any of our critical information systems fail or become otherwise unavailable, whether as a result of the upgrade project or otherwise, we would have to perform the functions manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to manage our fleet efficiently, to respond to customers' requests effectively, to maintain billing and other records reliably, and to bill for services and prepare financial statements accurately or in a timely manner.  Our business interruption insurance may be inadequate to protect us in the event of an unforeseeable and extreme catastrophe.  Any significant system failure, upgrade complication, security breach, or other system disruption could interrupt or delay our operations, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers, or impact our ability to manage our operations and report our financial performance, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. We receive and transmit confidential data with and among our customers, drivers, vendors, employees, and service providers in the normal course of business.  Despite our implementation of secure transmission techniques, internal data security measures, and monitoring tools, our information and communication systems are vulnerable to disruption of communications with our customers, drivers, vendors, employees, and service providers and access, viewing, misappropriation, altering, or deleting information in our systems, including customer, driver, vendor, employee, and service provider information and our proprietary business information.  A security breach could damage our business operations and reputation and could cause us to incur costs associated with repairing our systems, increased security, customer notifications, lost operating revenue, litigation, regulatory action, and reputational damage.. 19. Concentrated ownership of our stock can influence stockholder decisions, may discourage a change in control, and may have an adverse effect on share price of our stock.. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. The Gerdin family, our directors, and our executive officers, as a group, own or control approximately 44% of our common stock, and their interests may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. This ownership concentration may have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change in control, and may also have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. As a result of their ownership, the Gerdin family, the executive officers and directors, as a group, may have the ability to influence the outcome of any matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. This concentration of ownership could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay for our common stock, and could allow the Gerdin family to prevent or could discourage or delay a change of control, which other stockholders may favor. Further, our bylaws have been amended to \"opt out\" of the Nevada control share statute. Accordingly, an acquisition of more than a majority of our common stock by the Gerdin family will not result in certain shares in excess of a majority losing their voting rights and may enhance the Gerdin family's ability to exercise control over decisions affecting us. The interests of the Gerdin family may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock, and they may take actions affecting us with which other stockholders disagree.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are unable to remediate such material weaknesses and to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, there could be an elevated possibility of a material misstatement, and such a misstatement could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on its evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting. As disclosed in Item 9A of this report, we have identified material weaknesses as of December 31, 2017 in our internal control over financial reporting due to ineffective a) communication of objectives related to internal control, and b) development and documentation of internal controls impacting financial statement accounts and general controls over technology pertaining to user access and segregation of duties; and ineffective assessment of changes that impact internal control, which contributed to ineffective controls over the allocation of the purchase price for IDC to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.  As a result of these material weaknesses, our external auditors have issued an adverse opinion indicating that we have not maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017. Our management team has taken action to develop a remediation plan for these material weaknesses, but we cannot be certain when the remediation will be completed. If we fail to fully remediate these material weaknesses or fail to maintain effective internal controls in the future, it could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements or cause our stock price to decline.. Developments in labor and employment law and any unionizing efforts by employees could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.. We face the risk that Congress, federal agencies, or one or more states could approve legislation or regulations significantly affecting our businesses and our relationship with our employees, such as the previously proposed federal legislation referred to as the Employee Free Choice Act, which would have substantially liberalized the procedures for union organizations.  None of our domestic employees are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement, but any attempt by our employees to organize a labor union could result in increased legal and other associated costs. Additionally, given the National Labor Relations Board's \"speedy election\" rule, our ability to timely and effectively address any unionizing efforts would be difficult.  If we entered into a collective bargaining agreement with our domestic employees, the terms could materially adversely affect our costs, efficiency, and ability to generate acceptable returns on the affected operations.. Additionally, the Department of Labor issued a final rule in 2016 raising the minimum salary basis for executive, administrative and professional exemptions from overtime payment.  The rule increases the minimum salary from the current amount of $23,660 to $47,476 and non-discretionary bonus, commission and other incentive payments can be counted towards the minimum salary requirement. The rule was scheduled to go into effect on December 1, 2016. However, the rule was temporarily enjoined from going into effect in November 2016, and later invalidated in August 2017, after several states and business groups filed separate lawsuits against the Department of Labor challenging the rule. However, any future rule similar to this rule that impacts the way we classify certain positions, increases our payment of overtime wages or increases the salaries we pay to currently exempt employees to maintain their exempt status, may have a materially adverse impact on our financial and operational results.. 20. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, independent contractors, customers, vendors, government agencies, stockholders, and other parties through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions, and other processes. Recently, trucking companies, including us, have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of various federal and state wage and hour laws regarding, among other things, employee meal breaks, rest periods, overtime eligibility, and failure to pay for all hours worked. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial settlements or damages by the defendants.. These types of cases have increased since March 2014 when the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals held that the application of California state wage and hour laws to interstate truck drivers is not preempted by federal law. The case was appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States, which denied certiorari in May 2015, and accordingly, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals decision stands. Current and future state and local wage and hour laws, including laws related to employee meal breaks and rest periods, may vary significantly from federal law. As a result, we, along with other companies in the industry, are subject to an uneven patchwork of wage and hour laws throughout the United States. Federal legislation has been proposed in the past to solidify the preemption of state and local wage and hour laws applied to interstate truck drivers; however, passage of such legislation is uncertain. If such federal legislation is not passed, we may either need to comply with the most restrictive state and local laws across our entire fleet, or overhaul our management systems to comply with varying state and local laws. Either solution could result in increased compliance and labor costs, driver turnover, and decreased efficiency.. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend litigation may also be significant. Not all claims are covered by our insurance, and there can be no assurance that our coverage limits will be adequate to cover all amounts in dispute. To the extent we experience claims that are uninsured, exceed our coverage limits, involve significant aggregate use of our self-insured retention amounts, or cause increases in future premiums, the resulting expenses could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows."
