[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in or maintaining your investment in Herc Holdings common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Report before deciding to invest in our common stock. We have grouped our Risk Factors under captions that we believe describe various categories of potential risk. For the reader's convenience, we have not duplicated risk factors that could be considered to be included in more than one category. Any of the following risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or cash flows and the impact could be compounded if multiple risks were to occur. However, the following risks and uncertainties are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or cash flows. In the event that any of these risks have such a material adverse effect, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Material Weaknesses in our Internal Control over Financial Reporting and the Restatement of Financial Statements Previously Issued by Hertz Holdings. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that may adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner, which may adversely affect investor and lender confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our common stock and our ability to obtain future financing on acceptable terms, and we may identify additional material weaknesses.. Management concluded that Herc Holdings did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, because certain of the material weaknesses that were identified as of December 31, 2016 were not fully remediated, as discussed below and as described in more detail under \"Controls and Procedures\" in Part II, Item 9A of this Report.. A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In the course of completing its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, management determined that the following material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting were not remediated as of December 31, 2017:. •. • Ineffective design and maintenance of controls in response to the risks of material misstatement;. • Ineffective design and maintenance of controls over a certain business process in the period-end financial reporting process. • Ineffective design and maintenance of controls to monitor certain IT systems that the Company outsources to New Hertz under the TSA;. • Ineffective design and maintenance of controls over our IT systems relevant to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements (which were not part of the TSA);. • Ineffective design and maintenance of a control over the estimate for earned but unbilled revenue;. • Ineffective design and maintenance of a control related to the occurrence of revenue from the rental of revenue earning equipment; and. • Ineffective design and maintenance of controls over income tax accounts.. There can be no assurance as to when the material weaknesses will be fully remediated. Because the reliability of the internal control process requires repeatable execution, our material weaknesses will not be considered remediated until all remedial controls (including any additional remediation efforts that our senior management may identify as necessary) have been implemented, each applicable control has operated for a sufficient period of time, and management has concluded, through testing, that the controls are operating effectively. Until all identified material weaknesses are remediated, we will not be able to assert that our internal controls are effective. Further, management may identify other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting.. As a result of our inability to assert that our internal controls are effective and/or of the inability of our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor and lender. 9. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock and possibly impact our ability to obtain future financing on acceptable terms.. Our efforts to design and implement an effective control environment may not be sufficient to remediate the material weaknesses described above or to prevent future material weaknesses from occurring. The failure to implement or maintain required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses or material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. Any such material misstatement could result in a restatement of our consolidated financial statements, which could lead to, among other things, additional legal, accounting and other expenses; delays in filing required financial disclosures; events of default under the credit agreement governing our asset-based revolving credit facility or the indenture governing our senior notes (or significant payments to amend such agreements); additional or expanded investigations or enforcement actions by the New York Stock Exchange, the SEC or other federal or state government agencies or regulatory authorities; sanctions, fines or penalties; a decline in the prices of our securities; and liabilities arising from stockholder litigation. Any negative publicity resulting from our material weaknesses or any of these potential related issues may have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain customers, employees and vendors. We also may lose assets if we do not maintain adequate internal controls. The foregoing circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows.. We continue to expend significant costs and devote management time and attention and other resources to matters related to our internal control over financial reporting, and our material weaknesses could expose us to additional risks that could materially adversely affect our ability to execute our strategic plan and our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant time and expense, including consulting, audit, legal and other professional fees, to remediate the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and to establish and implement improved processes, systems and internal controls. In addition, the focus on addressing these issues may distract our management and other key employees from running our business and could adversely affect our ability to execute our strategic plan. For further information regarding the identified material weaknesses, please see Part II, Item 9A \"Controls and Procedures\" of this Report.. Any significant disruption or deficiency in the design of or implementing our information technology (\"IT\") systems, including the migration of systems from New Hertz, could materially adversely affect our ability to accurately maintain our books and records or otherwise operate our business.. We are engaged in a number of IT systems projects, including the migration of our financial system from the New Hertz system to a stand-alone system, which has required and will continue to require significant investment of human and financial resources. This system is designed to accurately maintain our books and records. In implementing this project, we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties, as well as challenges in mapping to other systems and establishing sufficient controls. Any significant disruption or deficiency in the design or implementation of the separate financial system could adversely affect our ability to process purchase orders, order equipment, track accounts payable, maintain accurate books and records or otherwise operate our business. While we have invested substantial resources in planning and project management, significant implementation issues may arise that could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to timely report accurate financial results and our control environment.. The restatement of Hertz Holdings' previously issued financial results has been costly and has resulted in government investigations and other legal actions and could result in government enforcement actions and private litigation that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. Certain public disclosures made by Hertz Holdings prior to the Spin-Off have resulted in securities class action litigation. In addition, the New York Regional Office of the SEC is investigating the events disclosed in certain of Hertz Holdings' filings with the SEC and the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey also requested information regarding the same or similar events. Hertz Holdings expended, and Herc Holdings continues to expend, significant financial and human resources investigating the claims, defending related private litigation and responding to related books and records demands. Moreover, we could become subject to additional private litigation, investigations or government enforcement actions, arising out of the misstatements in Hertz Holdings' previously issued financial statements. While New Hertz and Herc Holdings have agreed to share any ultimate liability arising from proceedings of this nature pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement entered into in connection with the Spin-Off, we cannot reasonably estimate the potential exposure at this time. Further, although New. 10. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). Hertz will be managing such proceedings pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, the proceedings may nonetheless require significant time and attention of our management and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. For additional discussion of these matters, see Note 16, \"Commitments and Contingencies\" and Note 21, \"Arrangements with New Hertz\" to the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business is cyclical and depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers. A slowdown in economic conditions or adverse changes in the level of economic activity or other economic factors specific to our customers or their industries, in particular contractors and industrial customers, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.. Our rental equipment is used by our customers in a wide variety of industries, including contractors in residential and commercial construction and restoration, remediation and environment; general industrial, including refineries and petrochemical operations, manufacturing, power, metals and mining and agriculture; infrastructure; and other customers, including commercial and retail services, facility maintenance, recreation and entertainment production. Many of these industries are cyclical in nature. The demand for our rental equipment is directly affected by the level of economic activity in these industries, which means that when these industries experience a decline in activity, there is likely a corresponding decline in the demand for our rental equipment. This could materially adversely affect our results of operations.. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from the rental of equipment to various types of contractors, including in the non-residential construction market, and to industrial customers. A decline in construction or industrial activity could lead to a decrease in the demand for our rental equipment and intensified price competition from other equipment rental industry participants. Similarly, declines in oil or gas prices, or even the perception of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices, could lead to a significant slowdown in business activity, capital investments and maintenance expenditures of industrial customers in the upstream oil and gas markets and related service providers, which could negatively affect our rentals to participants in this industry, and could extend to other markets that we serve. Worsening of economic conditions or not achieving anticipated levels of economic expansion either generally or in our customers' specific industries, could have an adverse effect on demand for our products and services within those industries and extend to other markets that we serve, and could therefore materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The following factors, among others, may cause weakness in our markets, either temporarily or long-term:. • a decrease in the expected levels of rental versus ownership of equipment;. • government regulations and policies, including government initiatives for infrastructure improvements or expansions, or the policies of governments regarding exploration for, and production and development of, oil and natural gas reserves;. • an increase in the cost of construction materials;. • the level of supply and demand and relative prices or anticipated prices for oil and natural gas;. • an overcapacity of fleet in the equipment rental industry;. • a lack of availability of credit;. • an increase in interest rates; and. • terrorism or hostilities involving the United States, Canada or the international markets we serve.. Additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment and maintenance even when favorable conditions exist in their industries or markets.. If we were to experience a significant decrease in orders or an increase in order delays or cancellations that can result from the aforementioned economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 11. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). Our business is heavily reliant upon communications networks and centralized IT systems and the concentration of our systems creates or increases risks for us, including the risk of the misuse or theft of information as a result of cyber security breaches or otherwise, which could harm our brand, reputation or competitive position and give rise to material liabilities.. We rely heavily on communication networks and IT systems, including the Internet, to process rental and sales transactions, manage our pricing, manage our equipment fleet, manage our financing arrangements, account for our activities and otherwise conduct our business. Our major IT systems and accounting functions are centralized in a few locations. Any disruption, termination or substandard provision of these services, whether as the result of computer or telecommunications issues (including operational failures, computer viruses or security breaches), localized conditions (such as a power outage, fire or explosion) or events or circumstances of broader geographic impact (such as an earthquake, storm, flood, other natural disaster, epidemic, strike, act of war, civil unrest or terrorist act), could materially adversely affect our business by disrupting normal operations.. We regularly possess, store and handle non-public information about individuals and businesses, including both credit and debit card information and other sensitive and confidential personal information. In addition, our customers regularly transmit confidential information to us via the Internet and through other electronic means. Our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could compromise information security. Unauthorized parties also may attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business. Many of the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, including viruses, worms and other malicious software programs, are difficult to anticipate until launched against a target and we may be unable to implement adequate preventative measures.. A compromise of our security systems resulting in unauthorized access to certain personal information about our customers, distributors or employees could adversely affect our corporate reputation as well as our operations, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. Security breaches can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, which could result in financial damage or loss. Most states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals and often state authorities of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity, which would harm our reputation and brand, and may cause our customers and employees to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. As a result, a security breach could cause the loss of customers and could also require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems.. In addition, we outsource a significant portion of our IT services and, under a transition services agreement entered into with New Hertz in connection with the Spin-Off, we are reliant upon New Hertz for continued service with several IT systems. Therefore, we are also susceptible to disruptions, failures and breaches of the systems maintained by New Hertz and our other outsourced providers, which we do not control. Any disruption, failure, breach or poor performance of any of these systems could lead to lower revenues, increased costs or other material adverse effects on our business and results of operations.. Failure to maintain, upgrade and consolidate our IT networks could materially adversely affect us.. We continue to upgrade and consolidate our systems, including making changes to legacy systems, replacing legacy systems with successor systems with new functionality, acquiring new systems with new functionality and outsourcing certain IT services. These types of activities subject us to additional costs and inherent risks associated with outsourcing, replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of our ability to manage our business, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, demands on management time, and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to outsourcing alternatives or new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. We rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. Further, the software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. The inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner.. In addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology, maintenance or adequate support of outdated or other existing systems or our outsourcing initiatives could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our business operations and could have an adverse effect on our operations if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated. Our competitive position may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain systems that allow us to. 12. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). manage our business in a competitive manner. Additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.. We may fail to respond adequately to changes in technology and customer demands.. In recent years, our industry has been characterized by rapid changes in technology and customer demands. For example, industry participants have taken advantage of new technologies to improve fleet efficiency, decrease customer wait times and improve customer satisfaction. Our ability to continually improve our current processes and customer-facing tools in response to changes in technology or in customer expectations is essential in maintaining our competitive position and maintaining current levels of customer satisfaction. We may experience technical or other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development or implementation of new technologies. The effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. We face intense competition, including from our own suppliers, that may lead to downward pricing or an inability to increase prices.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Competitive factors in our industry include increased price competition, the importance of customer loyalty, changes in market penetration, the introduction of new equipment, services and technology by competitors, changes in marketing, product diversity and quality and the ability to supply equipment and services to customers in a timely, predictable manner. Because we do not have multi-year contractual arrangements with many of our customers, these competitive factors could cause our customers to cease renting our equipment and shift suppliers quickly.. The equipment rental market is highly fragmented, and we believe that price is one of the primary competitive factors. The Internet has enabled cost-conscious customers to more easily compare rates available from rental companies. If we try to increase our pricing, our competitors, some of whom may have greater resources and better access to capital or lower fixed operating costs, may seek to compete aggressively on the basis of pricing. In addition, our competitors may reduce prices in order to attempt to gain a competitive advantage, capture market share or compensate for declines in rental activity. To the extent we do not match or remain within a reasonable competitive margin of our competitors' pricing, our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If competitive pressures lead us to match any of our competitors' downward pricing and we are not able to reduce our operating costs, then our margins, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted.. We face competition from traditional rental companies as well as our own suppliers. We purchase our rental equipment from leading, globally-known original equipment manufacturers. Under our supplier arrangements, the suppliers may appoint additional distributors, elect to sell or rent directly to our customers or unilaterally terminate their arrangements with us at any time without cause. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows due to a reduction of, or an inability to increase, our revenues.. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key management and other key personnel, and the ability of new employees to learn their new roles.. Our ability to successfully execute on our business plan depends upon the contributions of our senior management team as well as other key personnel, such as our dedicated sales force. In recent years we have experienced significant changes to our key personnel, including changes stemming from the formation of our senior management team in preparation for the Spin-Off, the re-configuration of our sales territories, the transition of Hertz Holdings' corporate offices from Park Ridge, New Jersey to Bonita Springs, Florida, and the movement of our Shared Services Center from Oklahoma City, Oklahoma to Bonita Springs, Florida. Because of these personnel changes, we could experience inefficiencies or a lack of business continuity due to the new employees' lack of historical knowledge and lack of familiarity with the business processes, operating requirements, policies and procedures, and key information technologies and related infrastructure used in our day-to-day operations and financial reporting. Historically we have noted a ramp-up period before new members of our sales organization typically achieve a level of sales comparable to those who have been employed by the Company for a longer period of time. We may also experience additional costs as new employees learn their roles and gain necessary experience, in addition to the cost of hiring new individuals. It is important to our success that new key employees quickly adapt to and excel in their new roles. If they are unable to do so, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Further, if we cannot meet our needs for IT staff, we may not be able to fulfill our technology initiatives while continuing to provide maintenance on existing systems.. 13. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). If we were to lose the services of members of our senior management team or other key personnel, whether due to death, disability, resignation or termination of employment, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy, financial plans, marketing and other objectives could be significantly impaired. In addition, if we are unable to attract and retain qualified other key personnel, we may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage our business and execute our business plan.. We may have difficulty obtaining the resources that we need to operate, or our costs to do so could increase significantly, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. As a stand-alone company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant additional recurring costs to replace certain systems, technology, services and employees that remained with New Hertz. Historically, we were able to take advantage of the size and purchasing power of the combined Hertz Holdings organization in procuring technology and services, including, among other things, IT support, credit card processing services, consulting services, employee benefit support and audit services. We are a smaller company than the former Hertz Holdings, and we may not be able to obtain systems, technology, services and human resources on terms as favorable as those available to us prior to the Spin-Off.. In addition, we have engaged and will continue to engage the services of various consultants and professionals to support our internal resources as we assess, develop and implement our own processes, systems and controls. Due to the scope and complexity of the underlying projects relative to these efforts, the total cost of these services could be materially higher than our estimates, and may extend for a longer period of time than expected.. We also pay fees under a transition services agreement we entered into in connection with the Spin-Off, pursuant to which New Hertz or one of its affiliates provides us with certain corporate services (primarily IT services) on a transitional basis. Because the transition services agreement was negotiated in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship (i.e., between Hertz Holdings and New Hertz prior to the Spin-Off), the terms of the agreement may be less favorable to us than those that would be agreed to by parties bargaining at arm's length for similar services and the fees charged for the services may be higher than the costs reflected in the allocations in our historical financial results. While such services are being provided to us under the transition services agreement, our operational flexibility to modify or implement changes in such services or the amounts we pay for them is limited. Further, at the end of the term of the transition services agreement, or earlier if New Hertz fails to perform its obligations thereunder, we may be unable to obtain replacement services on terms as favorable as those contained in the transition services agreement. If we do not have our own adequate systems and business functions in place to replace the services performed by New Hertz under the transition services agreement, or are unable to obtain them from other providers, we may not be able to operate our business effectively.. If we are unable to obtain the resources and services required to operate our business on terms comparable to those available to us prior to the Spin-Off, or if our costs increase significantly due to the above factors or others, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Due to seasonality, especially in the construction industry, any occurrence that disrupts rental activity during our peak periods could materially adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. Significant components of our expenses are fixed in the short-term, including real estate taxes, rent, insurance, utilities, maintenance and other facility-related expenses, the costs of operating our IT systems and certain staffing costs. Seasonal changes in our revenues do not alter those fixed expenses, typically resulting in higher profitability in periods when our revenues are higher, and lower profitability in periods when our revenues are lower. Our business, especially in the construction industry, has historically experienced lower levels of business from December until late spring, particularly in the northern United States and Canada, and heightened activity during our third and fourth quarter until December. Any occurrence that disrupts rental activity during this period of heightened activity, including adverse weather conditions such as prolonged periods of cold, rain, blizzards, floods, fires, hurricanes or other severe weather patterns, could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. 14. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). Doing business in foreign countries exposes us to a number of additional risks, including complying with foreign and local laws and regulations that may conflict with U.S. laws and those under anticorruption, competition, economic sanctions and anti-boycott regulations, that may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. We currently operate in a number of foreign countries, including Canada and China. Operating in different countries exposes us to varying risks, which include: (i) multiple, and sometimes conflicting, foreign regulatory requirements and laws that are subject to change, including laws relating to taxes, insurance rates, insurance products, consumer privacy, data security, employment matters, cost and fee recovery, and the protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property; (ii) the effect of foreign currency translation risk; (iii) varying tax regimes, including consequences from changes in applicable tax laws; (iv) local ownership or investment requirements, as well as difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and (v) political and economic instability, natural calamities, war and terrorism. The failure to comply with international laws could have an adverse effect on us that is disproportionate to the relative size of our foreign operations.. Our international operations are also subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), economic sanction programs administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\") and the anti-boycott regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce's Office of Antiboycott Compliance. As a result of doing business in foreign countries, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating these and other laws. As part of our business, we regularly deal with foreign officials for regulatory purposes and may deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. In addition, the provisions of the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and are more onerous than the FCPA in a number of other respects. Some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have relatively higher levels of corruption. Economic sanctions programs restrict our business dealings with certain sanctioned countries and other sanctioned individuals and entities. Violations of anti-corruption laws, competition laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment (or other loss of business) from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist our compliance with applicable laws and regulations; however, there can be no assurance that they will effectively prevent us from violating these laws and regulations in every transaction in which we may engage. A violation of legal requirements could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our non-U.S. operations include joint ventures and other alliances. Additional risks characteristic of these arrangements include the risk of conflicts arising between us and our joint venture partners and the lack of unilateral control of management. We also risk circumstances where our joint venture partner may fail to satisfy its obligations, which could result in increased liabilities to us.. In addition, we are subject to limitations on our ability to repatriate funds to the United States from our operations outside of the United States. These limitations arise from regulations in certain countries that limit our ability to remove funds from or transfer funds to foreign subsidiaries, as well as from tax liabilities that would be incurred in connection with such transfers.. The effects of the foregoing risks may, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. Some or all of our deferred tax assets could expire if we experience an \"ownership change\" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\").. An \"ownership change\" could limit our ability to utilize tax attributes, including net operating losses, capital loss carryovers, excess foreign tax carryforwards, and credit carryforwards, to offset future taxable income. As of December 31, 2017, we had unutilized U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $136.1 million (which begin to expire in 2031). Our ability to use such tax attributes to offset future taxable income and tax liabilities may be significantly limited if we experience an \"ownership change\" as defined in Section 382(g) of the Code. In general, an ownership change will occur if and when the percentage of Herc Holdings' ownership (by value) of one or more \"5-percent shareholders\" (as defined in the Code) has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of stock owned by such shareholders at any time during the prior three years (calculated on a rolling basis). An entity that experiences an ownership change generally should be subject to an annual limitation on its pre-ownership change tax loss carryforward which accumulates each year to the extent that there is any unused limitation from a prior. 15. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). year. The limitation on our ability to utilize tax losses and credit carryforwards arising from an ownership change under Section 382 depends on the value of our equity at the time of any ownership change. If we were to experience an \"ownership change,\" it is possible that a significant portion of our tax loss carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them to offset future taxable income. Many states have adopted the federal Section 382 rules and therefore have similar limitations with respect to state tax attributes.. Changes in the legal and regulatory environment that affect our operations, including with respect to taxes, consumer rights, privacy, data security and employment matters, could disrupt our business, increase our expenses or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are located in 39 states in the United States and eight provinces in Canada, and also have other international operations. Our operations expose us to a number of national, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, in addition to legal, regulatory and contractual requirements we face as a government contractor. These laws and regulations address multiple aspects of our operations, including taxes, worker safety, consumer rights, privacy, data security and employment matters and also may impact other areas of our business. There are often different requirements in different jurisdictions. Changes in government regulation of our businesses have the potential to materially alter our business practices or our profitability. Depending on the jurisdiction, those changes may come about through the issuance of new laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations by a court, regulatory body or governmental official. Sometimes those changes may have both a retroactive and prospective effect; this is particularly true when a change is made through reinterpretation of laws or regulations that have been in effect for some time.  For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"2017 Tax Act\") recently enacted in the U.S. represents a significant overhaul of the U.S. federal tax code. The estimated impact of the new law included in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is based on management's current knowledge and assumptions, although the impacts ultimately recognized could be materially different from current estimates based on our further analysis of the new law and pending interpretations thereof. Moreover, changes in regulation that may seem neutral on their face may have either more or less impact on us than on our competitors, depending on the circumstances.  Changes in any legal or regulatory requirements applicable to us, or any material failure by us to comply with them, could negatively impact our reputation, reduce our business, require significant management time and attention and generally otherwise adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Similarly, changes in laws and regulations applicable to our customers or impacting the economy generally may also impact our financial condition and results of operations.. An impairment of our goodwill or our indefinite-lived intangible assets could have a material adverse non-cash impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We review our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable and at least annually. Our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets comprised approximately 10.1% of our total assets as of December 31, 2017. If economic deterioration occurs, we may be required to record charges for goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments in the future, which could have a material adverse non-cash impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Other Operational Risks:. Any decline in our relationships with our key national account customers or the amount of equipment they rent from us could materially adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our business depends on our ability to maintain positive relations with our key national account customers, which collectively accounted for 45% of our rental revenue in 2017. We cannot assure you that all of these relationships will continue at current levels or on current terms. Our contracts with our customers generally do not obligate them to rent equipment from us. Revenue from customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, may not continue in future periods or, if continued, may not reach or exceed historical levels in any period. Further, if our key customers fail to remain competitive in their respective markets or encounter financial or operational problems, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. 16. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). Our equipment rental fleet is subject to residual value risk upon disposition and may not sell at the prices we expect.. The market value of our equipment at the time of its disposition could be less than its estimated residual value or its depreciated value at such time. A number of factors could affect the value received upon disposition of our equipment, including:. • the market price for similar new equipment;. • the age of the equipment, wear and tear on the equipment relative to its age and the performance of preventive maintenance;. • the time of year that it is sold;. • the supply of used equipment relative to the demand for used equipment, including as a result of changes in economic conditions or conditions in the markets that we serve;. • inventory levels at original equipment manufacturers; and. • the existence and capacities of different sales outlets.. A sale of equipment below its depreciated value could adversely affect our results of operations. Accordingly, decisions to reduce the size of our equipment rental fleet in the event of an economic downturn or to respond to changes in rental demand are subject to the risk of loss based on the residual value of rental equipment.. We incur maintenance and repair costs associated with our equipment rental fleet that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows in the event these costs are greater than anticipated.. As our fleet of rental equipment ages, the cost of maintaining such equipment, if not replaced within a certain period of time, and the risk of fleet equipment being out of service, generally increase. As of December 31, 2017, the average age of our rental equipment fleet was approximately 49 months. Determining the optimal age at disposition for our rental equipment is subjective and requires considerable estimates by management. We have made estimates regarding the relationship between the age of our rental equipment, the maintenance and repair costs, the availability of our fleet and the market value of used equipment. It is possible that we may allow the average age of our rental equipment fleet to increase, which would increase our costs for maintenance and repair and likely would negatively impact the market value of such equipment at the time of its disposition. If maintenance and repair costs are higher than estimated or in-service times or market values of used equipment are lower than estimated, our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. We may be unable to protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights, and our business could be harmed as a result.. We rely on trade secrets to protect our know-how and other proprietary information, including pricing, purchasing, promotional strategies, customer lists and/or supplier lists. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Our employees, consultants, contractors or advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. In addition, any confidentiality agreements executed to protect these assets may not be enforceable or provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. The effects of these risks may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. We are exposed to a variety of claims and losses arising from our operations, and our insurance may not cover all or any portion of such claims.. We are exposed to a variety of claims arising from our operations, including claims by third parties for injury or property damage arising from the operation of our equipment or acts or omissions of our personnel and workers' compensation claims. We are currently a defendant in numerous actions and have received numerous claims on which actions have not yet been commenced for liability and property damage arising from the operation of equipment rented from us. We also are exposed to risk of loss from damage to our equipment and resulting business interruption. Our responsibility for such claims and losses is increased when we waive the provisions in certain of our rental contracts that hold a renter responsible for damage or loss under an optional loss or damage waiver that we offer. While we attempt to mitigate our exposure to large liability losses arising from such claims by maintaining general liability, workers' compensation and vehicle liability insurance coverage, our coverage may not be adequate to protect us against these exposures and we self-insure against losses associated with exposures not covered by these insurance policies.. 17. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). Moreover, in the event that insurance coverage does apply, we will bear a portion of the associated losses through the application of deductibles and self-insured retention in the insurance policies. For a company our size, such deductibles or self-insured retention could be substantial. There is also no assurance that insurance policies of these types will be available for purchase or renewal on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that the premiums and deductibles under such policies will not substantially increase, including as a result of market conditions in the insurance industry.. If we were to incur one or more liabilities that are significant, individually or in the aggregate, where we are not fully insured, that we self-insure against or that our insurers dispute, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Even with adequate insurance coverage, we still may experience a significant interruption to our operations as a result of third party claims or other losses arising from our operations.. We may face issues with our union employees.. Labor contracts covering the terms of employment of approximately 315 employees in the U.S. and 150 employees in Canada are presently in effect under approximately 20 active contracts with local unions, affiliated primarily with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and the International Union of Operating Engineers. These contracts are renegotiated periodically. Failure to negotiate a new labor agreement when required could result in a work stoppage. Although we believe that our labor relations have generally been good, it is possible that we could become subject to additional work rules imposed by agreements with labor unions, or that work stoppages or other labor disturbances could occur in the future. In addition, our non-union workforce has been subject to unionization efforts in the past, and we could be subject to future unionization, which could lead to increases in our operating costs and/or constraints on our operating flexibility.. Environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations and the costs of complying with them, or any change to them impacting our markets, could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Our operations are subject to numerous national, state, provincial and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection and occupational health and safety matters. These laws govern such issues as wastewater, storm water, solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality and matters of workplace safety. Under these laws and regulations, regardless of fault we may be liable for, among other things, the cost of investigating and remediating contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we have sent hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment, and also fines and penalties for non-compliance. We use hazardous materials to clean and maintain equipment, dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, and store and dispense petroleum products from storage tanks at certain of our locations. We cannot predict the potential financial impact on our business if new adverse environmental, health, or safety conditions are discovered, or environmental, health, and safety requirements become more stringent. If we are required to incur environmental, health, or safety compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated by us, our financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected, depending on the magnitude of the cost.. In addition, the U.S. Congress and other legislative and regulatory authorities in the United States and internationally have considered, and likely will continue to consider, numerous measures related to climate change, greenhouse gas emissions and other laws and regulations affecting our end markets, such as oil, gas and other natural resource extraction. Should such laws and regulations become effective, demand for our services could be affected, our fleet and/or other costs could increase and our business could be materially adversely affected.. Part of our strategy includes pursuing strategic transactions, which could be difficult to identify and implement, and could disrupt our business or change our business profile significantly.. We may opportunistically consider the acquisition of other companies or service lines of other businesses that either complement or expand our existing business, or we may consider the divestiture of some of our businesses. Any acquisitions or divestitures we may seek to consummate will be subject to the negotiation of definitive agreements, satisfactory financing arrangements and applicable governmental approvals and consents, including under applicable antitrust laws, such as the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable transactions and, even if we are able to identify such transactions, that we will be able to consummate any such acquisitions or divestitures on acceptable terms. Any future acquisitions or divestitures we pursue may involve a number of risks, including some or all of the following:. • the diversion of management's attention from our core business;. 18. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). • the disruption of our ongoing business;. • inaccurate assessment of undisclosed liabilities;. • potential known and unknown liabilities of the acquired or divested businesses and lack of adequate protections or potential related indemnities;. • the inability to integrate our acquisitions without substantial costs, delays or other problems;. • the loss of key customers or employees of the acquired or divested business;. • increasing demands on our operational systems;. • the integration of information systems and internal controls; and. • possible adverse effects on our reported results of operations or financial position, particularly during the first several reporting periods after an acquisition or divestiture is completed.. Any acquired entities or assets may not enhance our results of operations. Even if we are able to integrate future acquired businesses with our operations successfully, we cannot assure you that we will realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we anticipate from such integration or that we will realize such benefits within the expected time frame. Any acquisition also may cause us to assume liabilities, record goodwill and other intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential impairment charges, incur potential restructuring charges and increase working capital and capital expenditure requirements, which may reduce our return on invested capital.. If we were to undertake a substantial acquisition, the acquisition likely would need to be financed in part through additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities or with other arrangements. We cannot assure you that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required, given our substantial indebtedness and restrictions in the terms of our indebtedness that may limit the additional indebtedness that we may incur or the acquisitions that we may pursue, which may make it difficult or impossible for us to obtain financing for acquisitions. If we were to undertake an acquisition by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the acquisition may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common stock.. A significant divestiture would, in the short term, result in loss of revenues and possibly earnings, and could require the amendment or refinancing of our outstanding indebtedness or a portion thereof. Further, to the extent that we agree to accept payment of all or a portion of the sale price over time, we will bear the risk that the portion of the price that is not paid at closing may be uncollectible. In addition, in connection with any divestiture, we may agree to retain obligations related to the business or assets sold and we may agree to indemnify the purchaser for outstanding liabilities or with respect to the representations, warranties or covenants included in the definitive agreement between the parties.  These retained obligations and indemnification obligations could result in significant costs and expenses.. Risks Related to the Spin-Off and Our Separation from New Hertz. We and New Hertz have assumed and will share responsibility for certain liabilities in connection with the Spin-Off, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement entered into in connection with the Spin-Off, we assumed, among other things, liabilities associated with our equipment rental business and related assets, whether such liabilities arose prior to or subsequent to the Spin-Off, and have agreed to indemnify New Hertz for any losses arising from such liabilities, as well as any other liabilities we assumed pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement. We also will be responsible for a portion (typically 15%) of certain shared liabilities not otherwise specifically allocated to us or New Hertz under the separation and distribution agreement. Although we will be responsible for a portion of these shared liabilities, New Hertz has the authority to manage the defense and resolution of them. The amount of such liabilities could be greater than anticipated and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, New Hertz has assumed, among other things, liabilities associated with its vehicle rental business and related assets, whether such liabilities arose prior to or subsequent to the Spin-Off, and has agreed to indemnify us for any losses arising from such liabilities, as well as any other liabilities it assumed pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement. New Hertz also will be responsible for a portion (typically 85%) of certain shared liabilities not otherwise specifically allocated to New Hertz or us under the separation and distribution agreement. We rely on New Hertz to manage the defense and resolution of these shared liabilities. If New Hertz fails to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under the separation and distribution agreement,. 19. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). including its indemnification obligations, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If there is a determination that any portion of the Spin-Off transaction is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then we and our stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.. Hertz Holdings received a favorable private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") to the effect that, subject to the accuracy of and compliance with certain representations, assumptions and covenants, (i) the Spin-Off qualified as a tax-free transaction under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code), and (ii) the internal spin-off transactions (collectively with the Spin-Off, the \"Spin-Offs\") qualified as tax free under Section 355 of the Code. A private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS. However, the IRS ruling does not rule that the Spin-Offs satisfied every requirement for a tax-free spin-off, and Hertz Holdings relied solely on opinions of its tax advisors to determine that such additional requirements were satisfied. The ruling and the opinions relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Hertz Holdings and New Hertz regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Herc Holdings, its affiliates and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinions of tax advisors and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinions of tax advisors, the IRS could determine on audit that the Spin-Offs and related transactions are taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinions that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of Herc Holdings or New Hertz after the Spin-Off. If the Spin-Offs or related transactions are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and, in certain cases, our stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, including taxation on the value of the New Hertz common stock in the Spin-Off.. If we take or fail to take actions that cause the Spin-Offs to fail to qualify as tax-free transactions, we could be required to indemnify New Hertz for any resulting taxes and related losses.. Under the tax matters agreement with New Hertz, if either Herc Holdings or New Hertz takes or fails to take any action (or permits any of its affiliates to take or fail to take any action) that causes the Spin-Offs to be taxable, or if there is an acquisition of the equity securities or assets of either party (or equity securities or assets of any member of that party's group) that causes the Spin-Offs to be taxable, that party will be required to indemnify the other party for any resulting taxes and related losses.. If any of the Spin-Offs were taxable to any of the applicable companies, such companies would recognize gain equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the stock distributed over the tax basis in that stock, and Herc Holdings and its affiliates would have to pay tax on that gain. The amount of tax would be substantial, and the party causing the Spin-Off to be taxable may not have sufficient financial resources to operate its business after paying any resulting taxes and related losses.. We could incur significant tax or other liability if New Hertz fails to pay the tax liabilities attributable to it under the tax matters agreement or to perform its obligations under the separation and distribution agreement.. Under U.S. federal income tax laws, Herc Holdings and New Hertz (or certain of its subsidiaries) are jointly and severally liable for Hertz Holdings' federal income taxes attributable to certain periods prior to or including the 2016 taxable year of Hertz Holdings. Although the tax matters agreement allocates responsibility for tax liabilities between us and New Hertz, if New Hertz fails to pay the taxes for which it is responsible under the tax matters agreement, we may be liable for these unpaid liabilities. Certain other jurisdictions may have similar rules. Similarly, the separation and distribution agreement identifies obligations to be borne by New Hertz and liabilities that are shared between us and New Hertz. If New Hertz fails to perform its obligations or pay its share of the shared liabilities, we could incur significant liability which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The loss of Hertz's brand and reputation could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers.. In Canada, where we are involved in litigation regarding the ownership of the name Herc, we operate under the name Hertz Equipment Rental pending the resolution of the litigation. In connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into an intellectual property agreement with New Hertz pursuant to which, among other things, we have been granted a license to continue to use certain intellectual property associated with the Hertz brand, which allows us to, among other things, continue using the name Hertz. 20. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). Equipment Rental outside the U.S. This licensing arrangement will only be effective for a period of four years after the Spin-Off to allow us to transition to our new brand. If we are not able to transition to our Herc name outside the U.S., it may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Herc Holdings has limited operating history as a stand-alone public company, and our historical financial information for periods prior to July 1, 2016 is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company, and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.. Due to the accounting treatment of the Spin-Off, which considers Herc Holdings to be the spinnee or divested entity, our historical financial information included in this Report for periods prior to July 1, 2016 is derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Hertz Holdings. Accordingly, the historical financial information included herein for such periods does not necessarily reflect the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during those periods or those that we will achieve in the future, primarily as a result of the following factors:. • Prior to the Spin-Off, our equipment rental business was operated by Hertz Holdings as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. Hertz Holdings or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us, including accounting, corporate affairs, external reporting, human resources, IT, legal services, risk management, tax administration, treasury, and certain governance functions (including internal audit and compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002). As a result, our historical financial results for periods prior to July 1, 2016 reflect allocations of corporate expenses for these and similar functions. These allocations may be less than the comparable expenses we would have incurred (or may incur in the future) had we operated as a separate public company during such periods.. • Prior to the Spin-Off, our equipment rental business was integrated with the vehicle rental business of Hertz Holdings, which is now operated by New Hertz following the Spin-Off. Historically, we shared economies of scale in costs, employees, systems, vendor relationships and customer relationships. The loss of these benefits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows going forward.. • Generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions, were historically satisfied as part of the enterprise-wide cash management policies of Hertz Holdings. Going forward, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. The cost of capital for our business may be higher than Hertz Holdings' cost of capital prior to the Spin-Off.. The adjustments and allocations we have made in preparing our historical combined financial statements may not fully reflect our operations during periods prior to the Spin-Off as if we had in fact operated as a stand-alone entity.. Our ability to engage in financings, acquisitions and other strategic transactions using equity securities is limited because of the U.S. federal income tax requirements for a tax-free distribution.. Current tax law generally creates a presumption that the Spin-Off would be taxable to us (but not to our stockholders) if either we or New Hertz engages in, or enters into an agreement to engage in, a transaction that would result in a 50% or greater change (by vote or by value) in stock ownership during the two-year period after the June 30, 2016 distribution date, unless it is established that the transaction is not pursuant to a plan or series of transactions related to the Spin-Off.. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the Spin-Off, under the tax matters agreement with New Hertz, each of Herc Holdings and New Hertz is subject to restrictions (including restrictions on share issuances and redemptions, business combinations, sales of assets and similar transactions) that are designed to preserve the tax-free status of the Spin-Off. These restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions that might be advantageous, such as issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs or acquiring businesses or assets by issuing equity securities. Many of our competitors are not subject to similar restrictions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us in this regard.. The Spin-Off may be challenged by creditors as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.. If, under relevant federal and state fraudulent transfer and conveyance statutes, in a bankruptcy or reorganization case or a lawsuit. 21. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). by or on behalf of unpaid creditors of New Hertz, a court were to find that (i) the Spin-Off and related transactions were undertaken with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding current or future creditors of New Hertz, or (ii) at the time that Hertz Holdings undertook the Spin-Off and related transactions, New Hertz was insolvent, or was rendered insolvent, by reason of the completion of the Spin-Off and related transactions, then the court could rescind the Spin-Off or, under certain circumstances, require Herc Holdings to fund liabilities of New Hertz for the benefit of creditors.. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing considerations will vary depending upon the law of the jurisdiction that is being applied in the relevant legal proceeding. Generally, however, New Hertz would be considered insolvent if, at the time that Hertz Holdings undertook the Spin-Off and related transactions, either:. • the sum of New Hertz's debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than its assets, at a fair valuation; or. • the fair saleable value of New Hertz's assets was less than the amount required to pay the probable liability on its total existing debts and liabilities, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and matured.. We cannot give you any assurance as to what standards a court would use to determine whether New Hertz was solvent at the relevant time, or whether, whatever standard is used, the Spin-Off would be rescinded or other liabilities would be imposed on us on another of the grounds described above. We believe that no basis exists to challenge the Spin-Off as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance under the foregoing standards. However, in reaching such conclusion we have relied upon the advice of Hertz Holdings' management and its third-party advisors whose analysis was based on certain projections and other assumptions. We cannot assure you, however, that a court would reach the same conclusion.. Risks Related to Our Substantial Indebtedness. Our substantial level of indebtedness exposes or makes us more vulnerable to a number of risks that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and ability to compete.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $2.2 billion, including our outstanding Notes and the amount drawn under our asset-based revolving credit facility. This substantial indebtedness requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flows from operations and investing activities to make payments on our debt, which reduces the amount available for working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes and which decreases our profitability and cash flow. We cannot assure you that we will maintain financing activities and cash flows sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. In addition, our indebtedness could materially adversely affect us. For example, it could: (i) make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to the holders of our outstanding debt securities and to the lenders under our credit facilities, resulting in possible defaults on, and acceleration of, such indebtedness; (ii) be difficult to refinance or borrow additional funds in the future; (iii) increase our vulnerability to, and limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, general adverse economic and industry conditions, (iv) place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have proportionately less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates or on better terms; and (v) limit our ability to react to competitive pressures, or make it difficult for us to carry out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and our efforts to improve operating margins. There is also a risk that one or more of the financial institutions providing commitments under our revolving credit facilities could fail to fund an extension of credit under any such facility, due to insolvency or otherwise, leaving us with less liquidity than expected. Our ability to manage these risks will depend, among other things, on financial market conditions as well as our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to a wide range of risks, including those described above under \" - Risks Related to Our Business.\". If our capital resources (including borrowings under our financing arrangements and access to other refinancing indebtedness) and operating cash flows are not sufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced, among other things, to do one or more of the following: (i) sell certain of our assets; (ii) reduce the size of our equipment rental fleet; (iii) reduce or delay capital expenditures; (iv) obtain additional equity capital; (v) forgo business opportunities, including acquisitions and joint ventures; or (vi) restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt before maturity. We cannot assure you that we would be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. If we cannot refinance or otherwise pay our obligations as they mature and fund our liquidity needs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and ability to compete could be materially adversely affected.. 22. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). Substantially all of our consolidated assets secure certain of our indebtedness, which could materially adversely affect our business and holders of our debt and equity.. Substantially all of our consolidated assets, including our equipment rental fleet, are subject to security interests under our financing arrangements. As a result, the lenders under those financing arrangements have a secured claim on such assets in the event of our bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or reorganization, and we may not have sufficient funds to pay in full, or at all, all of our creditors or make any amount available to holders of our equity. The same is true with respect to structurally senior obligations. In general, all liabilities and other obligations of a subsidiary must be satisfied before the assets of such subsidiary can be made available to the unsecured or junior creditors (or equity holders) of the parent entity.. Because substantially all of our assets are encumbered under financing arrangements, our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness or to sell or dispose of assets to raise capital may be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial flexibility and liquidity and force us to attempt to incur additional unsecured indebtedness, which may not be available to us.. An increase in interest rates or in our borrowing margin would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability.. A significant portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates, which increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions (such as economic cycles and credit-related disruptions), including interest rate fluctuations. To the extent we have not hedged against rising interest rates, an increase in the applicable benchmark interest rates would increase our cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability and materially adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, we may in the future seek to refinance our indebtedness. If interest rates or our borrowing margins increase between the time an existing financing arrangement was consummated and the time such financing arrangement is refinanced, the cost of servicing our debt would increase and our results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks described above.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements and instruments governing our financing arrangements contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Further, these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. If new debt or other obligations are added to our current debt and liability levels without a corresponding refinancing or redemption of our existing indebtedness and obligations, the risks related to our substantial indebtedness could increase.. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the sale or distribution of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that a sale or distribution could occur. These factors also could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of our common stock.. We are unable to predict whether significant amounts of our common stock will be sold in the open market or the potential negative effects that these sales could have on the price of our common stock. Certain shareholders, most notably affiliates of Carl Icahn and Mario Gabelli, have accumulated significant amounts of our common stock. Sales or distributions of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales or distributions will occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise funds through securities offerings in the future. As of December 31, 2017, there were 28.3 million shares of our common stock outstanding, which are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), unless held or acquired by our \"affiliates\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, all shares of our common stock acquired upon exercise of stock options and other equity-based awards granted under our stock incentive plan also will be freely tradable under the Securities Act unless acquired by our affiliates, as will shares acquired by our employees under our employee stock purchase plan. A maximum of 2.2 million shares of common stock are reserved for issuance under our stock incentive plan, and. 23. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). 533,333 shares of common stock are reserved for issuance under our employee stock purchase plan, some of which have been issued as of the date of this Report.. We also may issue additional common stock for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including acquisitions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, or to provide incentives pursuant to certain executive compensation arrangements. Such future issuances of equity securities, or the expectation that they will occur, could cause the market price for our common stock to decline.. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and our By-Laws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control.. Our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include:. • granting to our Board of Directors sole power to set the number of directors and to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise;. • the ability of our Board of Directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors;. • prohibiting our stockholders from acting by written consent;. • prohibiting our stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders;. • the absence of cumulative voting; and. • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the Board of Directors at stockholder meetings.. We believe that these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board of Directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is in our best interests and that of our stockholders. Any or all of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of Herc Holdings common stock could fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, including:. • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial position, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows;. • ongoing remediation of, and developments regarding, weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting;. • the public reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, dispositions, innovations or new programs and services;. • comments by institutional investors or media reports regarding our Company, business or industry;. • changes in earnings or other financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts following our stock, research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us or the rental industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock;. • changes in our ability to meet analyst estimates;. • purchases or sales of large blocks of our stock by institutional investors;. • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;. • general economic conditions and fluctuations in the overall market and the markets served by our customers, including construction and industrial markets;. 24. Table of Contents. HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. ITEM lA. RISK FACTORS (continued). • anticipated spending by government entities or agencies on infrastructure improvement or expansion projections, or the lack of, delay in or reduction in spending on such projects; and. • the trading volume of our common stock.. In addition, the realization of any of the risks described in these \"Risk Factors\" could have a material and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock in the future and cause the value of your investment to decline. The securities of many companies and the stock market in general have experienced extreme price and volume volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against the company. If we were to be involved in a class action lawsuit, it could divert the attention of senior management, and, if adversely determined, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition."
