[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Set forth below are certain risk factors that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the following risk factors, together with the financial statements, related notes and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer if any of the following risks are realized. If any of these risks or uncertainties occur, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that contain risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the discussion of \"Forward-Looking Statements\" of this Annual Report in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described herein.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our loss reserves are estimates and may be inadequate to cover our actual liability for losses, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected.. We maintain reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liabilities for losses and loss adjustment expenses, also referred to as loss reserves. We have a limited operating history and a limited loss history which may negatively impact our ability to accurately establish loss reserves. Our current loss reserves are based primarily on our historical data and statistical projections of what we believe the resolution and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known to us. As a company with limited operating history, our claims experience and our experience with the risks related to certain claims is inherently limited. We use company historical data to the extent it is available and rely on industry historical data which may not be indicative of future periods. As a result, our projections and our estimates may be inaccurate, which in turn may cause our actual losses to exceed our loss reserves. If our actual losses exceed our loss reserves, our financial results, our ability to expand our business and to compete in the property and casualty insurance industry may be negatively affected.. Factors that affect unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses include the estimates made on a claim-by-claim basis known as \"case reserves\" coupled with bulk estimates known as \"incurred but not yet reported\" (or \"IBNR\"). Periodic estimates by management of the ultimate costs required to resolve all claims are based on our analysis of historical data and estimations of the impact of numerous factors such as (i) per claim information, (ii) industry and company historical loss experience and development patterns, (iii) legislative enactments, judicial decisions, legal developments in the awarding of damages and changes in political attitudes, and (iv) trends in general economic conditions, including the effects of inflation. Management revises its estimates based on the results of its analysis. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for estimating the ultimate resolution of all claims. There is no precise method for subsequently evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of the reserves because the eventual redundancy or deficiency is affected by multiple factors.. Because of the inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, we cannot be certain that our reserves will be adequate to cover our actual losses and loss adjustment expenses. If our reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses are less than actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, we will be required to increase our reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Future loss experience substantially in excess of our reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses could substantially harm our results of operations and financial condition.. Because a large portion of our insurance business is conducted in coastal states, any single catastrophic event, or a series of such events, or other condition affecting losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, over 95% of our premium in force related to business in Florida, Hawaii, New York, New Jersey and Massachusetts. The distribution of our policies is generally consistent with that of the populations in those states and is therefore more concentrated in densely-populated coastal areas. A single catastrophic event, or a series of such events, destructive weather pattern, general economic trend, regulatory development or other condition specifically affecting the states in which we conduct business, particularly the more densely populated areas of those states, could have a disproportionately adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we actively manage our exposure to catastrophic events through our underwriting process and the purchase of reinsurance on an excess of loss and quota share basis, the fact that our business is concentrated in coastal states subjects us to increased exposure to certain catastrophic events and destructive weather patterns such as hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, and winter storms in the northeastern United States. Changes in the prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic and competitive environment, and other conditions in the states in which we conduct business could also make it less attractive for us to do business and would have a more pronounced effect on our business than it would on other insurance companies that are more geographically diversified than we are. Since our business is concentrated in this manner, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events or other conditions affecting losses in Florida, Hawaii, New York, New Jersey, or Massachusetts could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. We have exposure to unpredictable catastrophes, which can materially and adversely affect our financial results.. We write insurance policies that cover homeowners, condominium owners and commercial residential buildings for losses that result from, among other things, catastrophes. We are therefore subject to losses, including claims under policies we have assumed or written, arising out of catastrophes that may have a significant effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant catastrophe, or a series of catastrophes, could also have an adverse effect on our reinsurers. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, tropical storms, snow storms, tornadoes, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, power outages, fires and by man-made events, such as terrorist attacks. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected and the severity of the event. Our policyholders are currently concentrated in coastal states, which are especially subject to adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes, tropical storms, and winter storms. Therefore, although we attempt to manage our exposure to catastrophes through our underwriting process and the purchase of reinsurance protection, an especially severe catastrophe or series of catastrophes could exceed our reinsurance protection and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In total, for the period from June 1, 2017 through May 31, 2018, we have purchased up to $2.6 billion and $1.0 billion of reinsurance coverage for Heritage P&C/Zephyr and NBIC, respectively including our retention, for multiple catastrophic events. Our ability to access this coverage, however, is subject to the severity and frequency of such events. We may experience significant losses and loss adjustment expenses in excess of our retention.. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly based on industry factors.. The insurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity, as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted an increase in pricing. As premium levels increase, there may be new entrants to the market, which could then lead to increased competition, a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and fewer opportunities to underwrite insurance risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers, including changes resulting from multiple and/or catastrophic weather events, may affect the cycles of the insurance business significantly. We cannot predict whether market conditions will improve, remain constant or deteriorate. Negative market conditions may impair our ability to write insurance at rates that we consider appropriate relative to the risk assumed. If we cannot write insurance at appropriate rates, our business would be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, the uncertainties inherent in the reserving process, together with the potential for unforeseen developments, including changes in laws and the prevailing interpretation of policy terms, may result in losses and loss adjustment expenses materially different from the reserves initially established. Changes to prior year reserves will affect current underwriting results by increasing net income if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant or by decreasing net income if the prior year reserves prove to be insufficient. We are not allowed to record contingency reserves to account for expected future losses. As a result, we expect volatility in operating results in periods in which significant loss events occur because generally accepted accounting principles do not permit insurers or reinsurers to reserve for loss events until they have occurred and are expected to give rise to a claim. We anticipate that claims arising from future events may require the establishment of substantial reserves from time to time.. We may not be able to collect reinsurance amounts due to us from the reinsurers with which we have contracted.. Reinsurance is a method of transferring part of an insurance company's risk under an insurance policy to another insurance company. To the extent that our reinsurers are unable to meet the obligations they assume under our reinsurance agreements, we remain liable for the entire insured loss. We use reinsurance arrangements to limit and manage the amount of risk we retain, to stabilize our underwriting results and to increase our underwriting capacity. Our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers under the reinsurance treaties we currently have in effect is subject to the reinsurance company's ability and willingness to pay and to meet its obligations to us. We attempt to select financially strong reinsurers with an A.M. Best or S&P rating of \"A-\" or better or we require the reinsurer to fully collateralize its exposure. While we monitor from time to time their financial condition, we also rely on our reinsurance broker and rating agencies in evaluating our reinsurers' ability to meet their obligations to us.. Our reinsurance coverage in any given year may be concentrated with one or a limited group of reinsurers. For the twelve months ending May 31, 2018, no single uncollateralized private reinsurer represented more than 10% of the overall limit purchased from our total reinsurance coverage. Any failure on the part of any one reinsurance company to meet its obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. All residential insurance companies that write business in Florida, including Heritage P&C, are required to obtain reinsurance through the FHCF, and this coverage comprises a substantial portion of the Heritage P&C reinsurance program for our Florida insured properties. The limit and retention of the FHCF coverage is subject to upward or downward adjustment based on, among other things, submitted exposures to FHCF by all participants. We have purchased private reinsurance alongside our FHCF layer to fill in gaps in. 22. coverage that may result from the adjustment of the limit or retention of our FHCF coverage; however, such reinsurance would not cover any losses we may incur as a result of FHCF's inability to pay the full amount of our claims. If a catastrophic event occurs in Florida, the FHCF may not have sufficient funds to pay all of its claims from insurance companies in full or in a timely manner. This could result in significant financial, legal and operational challenges to our Company. In the event of a catastrophic loss, FHCF's ability to pay may be dependent upon its ability to issue bonds in amounts that would be required to meet its reinsurance obligations. There can be no assurance that FHCF will be able to do this. While we believe FHCF currently has adequate capital and financing capacity to meet its reinsurance obligations, there can be no assurance that it will be able to meet its obligations in the future, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all.. The cost of reinsurance is subject to prevailing market conditions beyond our control such as the amount of capital in the reinsurance market, as well as the frequency and magnitude of natural and man-made catastrophes. We cannot be assured that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us in the amounts we consider sufficient and at prices acceptable to us. As a result, we may determine to increase the amount of risk we retain or look for other alternatives to reinsurance, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, effectively integrate newly acquired businesses or achieve expected profitability from acquisitions.. Part of our growth strategy is to expand through the acquisition of complementary businesses. There can be no assurance that suitable candidates for acquisitions can be identified or, if suitable candidates are identified, that acquisitions can be completed on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if suitable candidates are identified, any future acquisitions may entail a number of risks that could adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock, including the integration of the acquired operations, diversion of management's attention, risks of entering new market regions in which we have limited experience, adverse short-term effects on our reported operating results, the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses and risks associated with unanticipated liabilities.. We may use our common stock to pay for acquisitions. If the owners of potential acquisition candidates are not willing to receive our common stock in exchange for their businesses, our acquisition prospects could be limited. Future acquisitions could also result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and increased debt and contingent liabilities, including liabilities related to unknown or undisclosed circumstances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock.. Increased competition, competitive pressures, industry developments and market conditions could affect the growth of our business and adversely impact our financial results.. The property and casualty insurance industry in the states in which we do business is cyclical and, during times of increased capacity, highly competitive. We compete not only with other stock companies, but also with state governmental insurance entities, mutual companies, other underwriting organizations and alternative risk sharing mechanisms. Our principal lines of business are written by numerous other insurance companies. Competition for any one account may come from very large, well-established national companies, smaller regional companies, other specialty insurers in our field and other companies that write insurance. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources, larger agency networks and greater name recognition than we do. We compete for business not only on the basis of price, but also on the basis of financial strength, types of coverages offered, and availability of coverage desired by customers, commission structure and quality of service. We may have difficulty continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. Competitive pressures coupled with market conditions may affect our rate of premium growth and financial results.. In addition, industry developments could further increase competition in our industry. These developments could include:. •  an influx of new capital in the marketplace as existing companies attempt to expand their businesses and new companies attempt to enter the insurance business as a result of better premium pricing and/or policy terms;. •  an increase in programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas;. •  changes in state regulatory climates; and. •  the passage of federal proposals for an optional federal charter that would allow some competing insurers to operate under regulations different or less stringent than those applicable to us.. 23. These developments and others could make the property and casualty insurance marketplace more competitive by increasing the supply of insurance available. If competition limits our ability to write new business at adequate rates, our future results of operations would be adversely affected.. Our success depends on our ability to accurately price the risks we underwrite.. Our results of operations and financial condition depend on our ability to underwrite and set premium rates accurately for a wide variety of risks. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premiums to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses, reinsurance costs and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. In order to price our products accurately, we must collect and properly analyze a substantial amount of data; develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulas; closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. Our ability to successfully perform these tasks, and as a result price our products accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside our control, including:. •  the availability of sufficient reliable data and our ability to properly analyze available data;. •  regulatory delays in approving filed rate changes;. •  the uncertainties that inherently characterize estimates and assumptions;. •  our selection and application of appropriate rating and pricing techniques;. •  changes in legal standards, claim resolution practices, and restoration costs; and. •  legislatively imposed consumer initiatives.. In addition, we could underprice risks, which would negatively affect our profit margins. We could also overprice risks, which could reduce the number of policies we write and our competitiveness. In either event, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected.. The inherent uncertainty of models and our reliance on such models as a tool to evaluate risk may have an adverse effect on our financial results.. We license analytic and modeling software from third parties to facilitate our pricing, assess our risk exposure and determine our reinsurance needs. Given the inherent uncertainty of modeling techniques and the application of such techniques, these models and databases may not accurately address the emergence of a variety of matters which might impact our exposure to losses. Accordingly, these models may understate the exposures we are assuming and our financial results may be adversely impacted, perhaps significantly.. The failure of our claims department to effectively manage or remediate claims could adversely affect our insurance business, financial results and capital requirements.. We rely on our claims department and any outsourced claims resources to facilitate and oversee the claims adjustment process for our policyholders. Many factors could affect the ability of our claims department to effectively manage claims by our policyholders, including:. •  the accuracy of our adjusters as they make their assessments and submit their estimates of damages;. •  the training, background and experience of our claims representatives;. •  the ability of our claims department to ensure consistent claims handling;. •  the ability of our claims department to translate the information provided by adjusters into acceptable claims resolutions; and. •  the ability of our claims department to maintain and update its claims handling procedures and systems as they evolve over time based on claims and geographical trends in claims reporting.. Any failure to effectively manage the claims adjustment process, including failure to pay claims accurately, could lead to material litigation, undermine our reputation in the marketplace, impair our corporate image and negatively affect our financial results.. Additionally, in the final stage of the claims process for Florida claims, we leverage CAN's vendor network to provide repair and remediation services to the policyholder. If such services are not performed properly, we may face liability. Although we maintain professional liability insurance to cover losses arising from our repair and remediation services, there can be no assurances that such. 24. coverage is adequate. In addition, our failure to timely and properly remediate claims, or the perception of such failure, may damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to renew existing policies or write new policies.. If actual renewals of our existing contracts do not meet expectations, our premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our insurance policies are written for a one-year term. We make assumptions about the renewal of our prior year's contracts, including for purposes of determining the amount of reinsurance we purchase. If actual renewals do not meet expectations or if we choose not to write on a renewal basis because of pricing conditions, our premiums written in future years and our future operations would be materially adversely affected, and we may purchase reinsurance beyond what we believe is the most appropriate level.. We may not be able to effectively execute our growth and diversification strategy.. We have and intend to continue to invest significant time and resources to develop and market geographic expansion, new lines of business and/or products and services and we may not achieve the return on our investment that we expect. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of geographic expansion, new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting customer preferences may also impact the successful implementation of our business plan. Such external factors and requirements may increase our costs and potentially affect the speed with which we will be able to pursue new market opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in bringing new insurance products or geographic expansion to our marketplace. Additionally, any geographic expansion, new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our growth and diversification strategy involves expansion of our business to states outside of our existing markets. Geographic diversification may be hindered by the fact that we have a limited operating history, and we may be unable to satisfy requirements imposed by state regulators and other third parties.. If we are unable to expand our business because our capital must be used to pay greater than anticipated claims, our financial results may suffer. Further, we may require additional capital in the future which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms.. Our future growth and future capital requirements will depend on our ability to expand the number of insurance policies we write, to expand the kinds of insurance products we offer and to expand the geographic markets in which we do business, all balanced by the business risks we choose to assume and cede. These growth initiatives require capital. Our existing sources of funds include possible sales of common or preferred stock, incurring debt and our earnings from operations and investments. Unexpected catastrophic events in our coverage areas, such as the hurricanes, may result in greater claims losses than anticipated, which could require us to limit or halt our growth while we redeploy our capital to pay these unanticipated claims unless we are able to raise additional capital.. To the extent that our present capital is insufficient to meet future operating requirements or to cover losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financing or curtail our growth. Based on our current operating plan, we believe that our current capital together with our anticipated retained income will support our operations. However, we cannot provide any assurance in that regard, since many factors will affect the amount and timing of our capital needs, including our growth and profitability, the availability and cost of reinsurance, as well as possible acquisition opportunities, market disruptions and other unforeseeable developments. If we require additional capital, it is possible that equity or debt financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our stockholders could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of existing stockholders. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Heritage Insurance depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to generate and transfer funds to meet its debt obligations.. Heritage Insurance Holdings, Inc. does not have significant revenue generating operations of its own. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations depends on the financial condition and operating performance of our subsidiaries. If the funds we receive from our subsidiaries, some of which are subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of distributions, are insufficient to meet our debt obligations, we may be required to raise funds through the issuance of additional debt or equity securities, reduce or suspend dividend payments, or sell assets.. 25. Our information technology systems, or those of our key service providers, may fail or suffer a loss of security which could adversely affect our business.. Our insurance business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our computer and data processing systems. We rely on these systems to perform actuarial and other modeling functions necessary for writing business, as well as to handle our policy administration process (i.e., handling and adjusting claims, the billing, printing and mailing of our policies, endorsements, renewal notices, etc.). The successful operation of our systems depends on a continuous supply of electricity. The failure of these systems or disruption in the supply of electricity could interrupt our operations and result in a material adverse effect on our business.. The development and expansion of our insurance business is dependent upon the successful development and implementation of advanced technology, including modeling, underwriting and information technology systems. Because we intend to expand our business by writing additional voluntary policies, expanding to new geographic areas and entering into new lines of business, we are enhancing our information technology systems to handle and process an increased volume of policies. Additionally, we have engaged service providers to provide us with policy and other administration services for certain policies and we intend to continue to utilize third party systems as our policy count grows. The failure of any of these systems to function as planned could slow our growth and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. In addition, we have licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable systems, or that our technology or applications will continue to operate as intended. Moreover, we cannot be certain that we would be able to replace these systems without slowing our underwriting response time. A major defect or failure in our internal controls or information technology systems could result in management distraction, harm to our reputation, a loss or delay of revenues or increased expense.. In addition, a security breach of our computer systems could damage our reputation or result in liability. We retain confidential business and policyholder information in our computer systems. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. It is critical that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure. Despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. In addition, we could be subject to liability if hackers were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate confidential information.. The development and implementation of new technologies will require an additional investment of our capital resources in the future.. Frequent technological changes, new products and services and evolving industry standards are all influencing the insurance business. We believe that the development and implementation of new technologies will require additional investment of our capital resources in the future. We have not determined, however, the amount of resources and the time that this development and implementation may require, which may result in short-term, unexpected interruptions to our business, or may result in a competitive disadvantage in price and/or efficiency, as we endeavor to develop or implement new technologies.. We do not have significant redundancy in our operations.. We conduct our business primarily from offices located in western and southern Florida, Hawaii, and Rhode Island where catastrophic weather events could damage our facilities or interrupt our power supply. The loss or significant impairment of functionality in these facilities for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, as we do not have significant redundancies to replace our facilities if functionality is impaired. We contract with a third-party vendor to maintain complete daily backups of our systems; however, we have not fully tested our plan to recover data in the event of a disaster.. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees.. We depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced underwriting talent and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. If the quality of our underwriters and other personnel decreases, we may be unable to maintain our current competitive position in the specialized markets in which we operate and be unable to expand our operations, which could adversely affect our results.. The loss of, or failure to attract, key personnel could have a more significant impact on our business as compared to some of our competitors that are larger or have longer operating histories. We believe that our ability to grow and fully execute our business plan will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain additional skilled and qualified personnel and to expand, train and manage our employees. We may not be successful in doing so, because the competition for experienced personnel in the insurance industry is intense.. 26. We are dependent on key executives, the loss of whom could adversely affect our business.. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the efforts of our senior management. We believe there are only a limited number of available and qualified executives with substantial experience in our industry. Accordingly, the loss of the services of one or more of the members of our senior management could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy and, consequently, significantly and negatively affect our business.. Currently, we only maintain key man life insurance with respect to Bruce Lucas, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. If any other member of senior management dies or becomes incapacitated, or leaves the company to pursue employment opportunities elsewhere, we would be solely responsible for locating an adequate replacement for such senior management and for bearing any related cost. To the extent that we are unable to locate an adequate replacement or are unable to do so within a reasonable period of time, our business may be significantly and negatively affected.. Our financial results may be negatively affected by the fact that a portion of our income is generated by the investment of our company's capital, premiums and loss reserves.. A portion of our income is, and likely will continue to be, generated by the investment of our capital, premiums and loss reserves. The amount of income so generated is a function of our investment policy, available investment opportunities and the amount of available cash invested. We are also constrained by investment limitations required by our state insurance regulators. At December 31, 2017, approximately 79% of our total investments, cash and cash equivalents was invested in fixed-maturity and equity securities. We may, under certain circumstances, be required to liquidate our investments in securities at prices below book value, which may adversely affect our financial results. We currently hold all of our cash in accounts with four financial institutions and, as a result of this concentration, a portion of the balances in such accounts exceeds the FDIC insurance limits. While we monitor and adjust the balances in our accounts as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if any of these financial institutions fail and could be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets.. We may alter our investment policy to accept higher levels of risk with the expectation of higher returns. Fluctuating interest rates and other economic factors make it impossible to estimate accurately the amount of investment income that will be realized. In fact, we may realize losses on our investments.. Our inability to maintain our financial stability rating may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, the marketability of our product offerings, and our liquidity, operating results and financial condition.. Financial stability ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and can have a significant effect on an insurance company's business. Many insurance buyers, agents, brokers and secured lenders use the ratings assigned by rating agencies to assist them in assessing the financial stability and overall quality of the companies from which they are considering purchasing insurance or in determining the financial stability of the company that provides insurance. Each of our insurance company affiliates currently maintain a Demotech rating of \"A\" (\"Exceptional\") or higher. These financial stability ratings provide an objective baseline for assessing solvency and should not be interpreted as (and are not intended to serve as) an assessment of, a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold, any securities of an insurance company or its parent holding company, including shares of our common stock.. On an ongoing basis, rating agencies review the financial performance and condition of insurers and can downgrade or change the outlook on an insurer's ratings due to, for example, a change in an insurer's statutory capital, a reduced confidence in management or a host of other considerations that may or may not be under the insurer's control. All ratings are subject to continuous review; therefore, the retention of these ratings cannot be assured. A downgrade in any of these ratings could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, the marketability of our product offerings and our ability to grow in the marketplace.. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain.. Loss frequency and severity in the property and casualty insurance industry in general and for our multi-peril personal lines business has continued to increase in recent years, principally driven by litigation and assignment of benefits in the State of Florida. In addition, many legal actions and proceedings have been brought on behalf of classes of complainants, which can increase the size of judgments. The propensity of policyholders and third party claimants to litigate and the willingness of courts to expand causes of loss and the size of awards may render the loss reserves of our insurance subsidiaries inadequate for current and future losses. In addition, as industry practices and social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not. 27. be known at the time such policies are issued or renewed, and our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected.. The failure of the risk mitigation strategies we utilize could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. We utilize a number of strategies to mitigate our risk exposure including:. •  employing proper underwriting procedures;. •  carefully evaluating the terms and conditions of our policies;. •  geographic diversification; and. •  ceding insurance risk to reinsurance companies.. However, there are inherent limitations in these tactics. No assurance can be given that an event or series of unanticipated events will not result in loss levels which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Lack of effectiveness of exclusions and other loss limitation methods in the insurance policies we assume or write could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations.. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage which are designed to limit our risks, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. In addition, the policies we issue contain conditions requiring the prompt reporting of claims to us and our right to decline coverage in the event of a violation of that condition. While our insurance product exclusions and limitations reduce the loss exposure to us and help eliminate known exposures to certain risks, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or limitation, or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of such endorsements and limitations in a way that would adversely affect our loss experience, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. We rely on independent agents to write voluntary insurance policies for us, and if we are not able to attract and retain independent agents, our revenues would be negatively affected.. We write voluntary personal and commercial insurance policies through a network of independent agents. Of our network of approximately 1,800 Florida independent agents, approximately 40% are affiliated with nine large agency networks with which we have entered into master agency agreements. Of our network of approximately 73 Hawaii independent agents, approximately 50% are affiliated with three large multi-producer agencies. Of our network of approximately 170 retail independent agents for business in the northeastern United States, our three largest relationships represent approximately $150 million in annualized premiums.. As of December 31, 2017, voluntary policies written through independent agents, constituted approximately 65.6% of our total policies in force and represented approximately $617 million in annualized premiums. Our strategic focus is to grow the number of voluntary policies throughout the states in which we are licensed, which will further increase our reliance on our network of independent agents. If any of our independent agents cease writing policies for us, or if any of our master agency agreements are terminated, we may suffer a reduction in the amount of products we are able to sell, which would negatively impact our results.. Many of our competitors also rely on independent agents. As a result, we must compete with other insurers for independent agents' business. Our competitors may offer a greater variety of insurance products, lower premiums for insurance coverage, or higher commissions to their agents. If our products, pricing and commissions do not remain competitive, we may find it more difficult to attract business from independent agents to sell our products.. Changing climate conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, profitability or cash flows.. Climate change, to the extent it produces extreme changes in temperatures and changes in weather patterns, could affect the frequency or severity of weather events. Further, it could reduce the affordability and availability of personal residential insurance, which could have an effect on pricing. Changes in weather patterns could also affect the frequency and severity of other natural catastrophe events to which we may be exposed.. 28. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected.. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and, provide a management report on the internal controls over financial reporting.. We have designed and implemented the internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements. In the future, we may discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remediated, could reduce the market's confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. We may not be able to effectively and timely implement necessary control changes and employee training to ensure continued compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulatory and reporting requirements. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and sanctions and investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure and other requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we currently and may in the future take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act with respect to our internal control over financial reporting, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these provisions for up to five years from our initial public offering or such earlier time that we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" We would cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" upon the earliest to occur of: (i) the last day of the year in which we have more than $1.07 billion in annual revenues; (ii) the date we qualify as a \"large accelerated filer,\" with at least $700 million of equity securities; (iii) the issuance, in any three-year period, by our company of more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt securities held by non-affiliates; and (iv) the last day of the year ending after the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, which is December 31, 2019. We may choose to take advantage of some but not all of these reduced reporting and other burdens. To the extent we take advantage of any of the reduced reporting burdens in this annual report or in future filings, the information that we provide our security holders may be different than you might get from other public companies in which you hold equity interests. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an \"emerging growth company\" can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an \"emerging growth company\" can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have chosen to \"opt-out\" of such extended transition period, however, and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt-out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable.. Risks Related to Regulation of our Insurance Operations. We are subject to extensive regulation which may reduce our profitability or limit our growth. Moreover, if we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including fines and suspensions, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to extensive state regulation. Our insurance company affiliates are subject to supervision and regulation that is primarily designed to protect our policyholders rather than our stockholders, and such regulation is imposed by the states in which we are domiciled and the states in which our insurance subsidiaries do business. These regulations relate to, among other things, the approval of policy forms and premium rates, our conduct in the marketplace, our compliance with solvency and financial reporting requirements, transactions with our affiliates, and limitations on the amount of business we can write, the amount of dividends we can pay to stockholders, and the types of investments we can make. Insurance holding company regulations generally provide that transactions between an insurance company and its affiliates must be fair and reasonable, and must be clearly and accurately disclosed. 29. in the records of the respective parties, with expenses and payments allocated between the parties in accordance with customary accounting practices. Many types of transactions between an insurance company and its affiliates, such as transfers of assets, loans, reinsurance agreements, service agreements, certain dividend payments by the insurance company and certain other material transactions, may be subject to prior approval by, or prior notice to, state regulatory authorities. If we are unable to obtain the requisite prior approval for a specific transaction, we would be precluded from taking the action, which could adversely affect our operations. These regulatory requirements may adversely affect or inhibit our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives. In addition, regulatory authorities also may conduct periodic examinations into insurers' business practices. These reviews may reveal deficiencies in our insurance operations or differences between our interpretations of regulatory requirements and those of the regulators.. State insurance regulations also frequently impose notice or approval requirements for the acquisition of specified levels of ownership in the insurance company or insurance holding company. For example, Florida law requires that a person may not, individually or in conjunction with any affiliated person of such person, acquire directly or indirectly, conclude a tender offer or exchange offer for, enter into any agreement to exchange securities for, or otherwise finally acquire 5% or more of the outstanding voting securities of a Florida domiciled stock insurer or of a controlling company, unless it is in compliance with certain notice and approval requirements. Such restriction may inhibit our ability to grow our business or achieve our business objectives.. Further, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe may be generally followed by the industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. This could adversely affect our ability to operate our business.. Heritage P&C is subject to additional regulation imposed by consent orders entered into with FLOIR in connection with our formation.. In addition to compliance with statutes and regulations, Florida routinely places additional restrictions on new insurers as a condition of receiving their certificate of authority. These restrictions are typically memorialized in a consent order entered into between FLOIR and the insurer applying for a certificate of authority. We are subject to such a consent order. We have, in certain cases, agreed to higher or more stringent restrictions than are otherwise required under Florida law. The material restrictions we have agreed to include:. •  Florida law requires a residential property writer to maintain surplus of the greater of $15 million or 10% of its liabilities. Pursuant the consent order, we agreed to establish a minimum capital and surplus of $18 million.. •  Florida law allows an insurer to pay certain dividends to stockholders without approval of FLOIR. Pursuant to the consent order, we agreed that, until July 31, 2017, Heritage P&C would pay only those dividends that have been approved in advance and in writing by FLOIR.. In addition, we are subject to several consent orders setting conditions upon FLOIR's approval of the various Citizens assumption transactions in which we have participated. For example, beginning with our June 2013 assumption transaction, we are required to offer to renew each assumed policy for a minimum of three years and limit rate increases for wind only policies where renewals are capped at 100% to 110% of the previous expiring Heritage premium.. In the event we are unable to comply with the additional regulation imposed by these consent orders, it may adversely affect our ability to operate our business.. Changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth.. We are subject to extensive regulation in the states in which we conduct business. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (\"NAIC\") and state insurance regulators are constantly reexamining existing laws and regulations, generally focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws.. From time to time, states consider and/or enact laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. States also consider and/or enact laws that impact the competitive environment and marketplace for property and casualty insurance. Our insurance company subsidiaries currently transact insurance multiple states. The political environment in some states has sometimes led to aggressive regulation of property and casualty insurance companies. For example, in 2007, Florida enacted legislation that led to rate levels in the private insurance market that we believe, in many instances in the past, were inadequate to cover the related underwriting risk. This same legislation required Citizens to reduce its premium rates and begin competing against private insurers in the Florida residential property insurance market. Florida lawmakers may continue to enact or retain legislation that suppresses the rates of Citizens, further adversely impacting the private insurance market and increasing the likelihood that it must levy assessments on private insurance companies and ultimately on Florida consumers. These and other aspects. 30. of the political environment in jurisdictions where we operate may reduce our profitability, limit our growth, or otherwise adversely affect our operations.. During the past several years, various regulatory and legislative bodies have adopted or proposed new laws or regulations to address the cyclical nature of the insurance industry, catastrophic events and insurance capacity and pricing. These regulations include (i) the creation of \"market assistance plans\" under which insurers are induced to provide certain coverages, (ii) restrictions on the ability of insurers to rescind or otherwise cancel certain policies in mid-term or to nonrenew policies at their scheduled expirations, (iii) advance notice requirements or limitations imposed for certain policy non-renewals, (iv) limitations upon or decreases in rates permitted to be charged, (v) expansion of governmental involvement in the insurance market and (vi) increased regulation of insurers' policy administration and claims handling practices.. Currently, the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business. However, in recent years the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny. Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to banks. In addition, changes in federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including changes in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, financial services regulation and federal taxation, can significantly impact the insurance industry and us.. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any enacted, proposed or future state or federal legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the regulatory requirements applicable to our business will not become more stringent in the future or result in materially higher costs than current requirements, or that creation of a federal insurance regulatory system will not adversely affect our business or disproportionately benefit our competitors. Changes in the regulation of our business may reduce our profitability, limit our growth or otherwise adversely affect our operations.. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements, and our failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action.. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed under applicable state laws. The risk-based capital standards, based upon the Risk-Based Capital Model Act adopted by the NAIC, require our insurance subsidiaries to report the results of risk-based capital calculations to state regulators and the NAIC. These risk-based capital standards provide for different levels of regulatory attention depending upon the ratio of an insurance company's total adjusted capital, as calculated in accordance with NAIC guidelines, to its authorized control level risk-based capital. Authorized control level risk-based capital is determined using the NAIC's risk-based capital formula, which measures the minimum amount of capital that an insurance company needs to support its overall business operations.. An insurance company with total adjusted capital that is less than 200% of its authorized control level risk-based capital is at a company action level, which would require the insurance company to file a risk-based capital plan that, among other things, contains proposals of corrective actions the company intends to take that are reasonably expected to result in the elimination of the company action level event. Additional action level events occur when the insurer's total adjusted capital falls below 150%, 100%, and 70% of its authorized control level risk-based capital. The lower the percentage, the more severe the regulatory response, including, in the event of a mandatory control level event (total adjusted capital falls below 70% of the insurer's authorized control level risk-based capital), placing the insurance company into receivership. As of December 31, 2017, our insurance subsidiaries each maintained a risk-based capital ratio of over 300%.. In addition, our insurance subsidiaries are required to maintain certain minimum capital and surplus and to limit its written premiums to specified multiples of its capital and surplus. Our insurance subsidiaries could exceed these ratios if their volume increases faster than anticipated or if their surplus declines due to catastrophe or non-catastrophe losses or excessive underwriting and operational expenses.. Any failure by our insurance subsidiaries to meet the applicable risk-based capital or minimum statutory capital requirements or the writings ratio limitations imposed by state law could subject our insurance subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action imposed by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business, state supervision or liquidation.. Any changes in existing risk-based capital requirements, minimum statutory capital requirements, or applicable writings ratios may require us to increase our statutory capital levels, which we may be unable to do.. Regulation limiting rate increases and requiring us to participate in loss sharing may decrease our profitability.. From time to time, political dispositions affect the insurance market, including efforts to effectively suppress rates at a level that may not allow us to reach targeted levels of profitability. Despite efforts to remove politics from insurance regulation, facts and history demonstrate that public policymakers, when faced with untoward events and adverse public sentiment, can act in ways that impede a satisfactory correlation between rates and risk. Such acts may affect our ability to obtain approval for rate changes that may. 31. be required to attain rate adequacy along with targeted levels of profitability and returns on equity. Our ability to afford reinsurance required to reduce our catastrophe risk may be dependent upon the ability to adjust rates for our cost.. Additionally, we are required to participate in guaranty funds for insolvent insurance companies. The funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of these factors.. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including:. •  our operating and financial performance and prospects;. •  our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. •  the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. •  changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry;. •  the failure of research analysts to cover our common stock;. •  general economic, industry and market conditions;. •  strategic actions by us, our customers or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. •  new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. •  changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. •  material litigation or government investigations;. •  changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events;. •  changes in key personnel;. •  sales of common stock by us, our principal stockholders or members of our management team;. •  the granting or exercise of employee stock options;. •  volume of trading in our common stock; and. •  impact of the facts described elsewhere in \"Risk Factors.\". In addition, in recent years, the stock market has regularly experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price. Therefore, investors who purchase our common stock may only realize a return on their investment if the value of our common stock appreciates.. We may not continue to pay dividends on our common stock.. In the fourth quarter of 2015 and for each quarter thereafter, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock; however, we can provide no assurance or guarantee that we will continue to pay dividends in the future. Therefore, investors who purchase our common stock may only realize a return on their investment if the value of our common stock appreciates. The declaration and payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our profits, financial requirements and other factors including regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends from our subsidiaries, general business conditions and such other factors as our Board of Directors considers relevant.. 32. We may not continue our stock repurchase program. On September 14, 2015, the Company announced that our Board of Directors authorized a $20 million share repurchase program under which purchases may be made from time to time in the open market, or through privately negotiated transactions, block transactions or other techniques, as determined by the Company's management. In May 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an additional stock repurchase of up to $50 million of the Company's common stock through December 31, 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company purchased through open market or private transactions an aggregate of 1,787,870 shares at a total cost of $21.6 million. For the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company purchased through open market or private transactions an aggregate of 1,759,330 shares at a total cost of $25.6 million.. Additionally, in connection with the issuance of the Convertible Notes as described in Note 11, Long Term Debt, of our financial statements Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Board of Directors had authorized the Company to repurchase $40.0 million of the Company's common stock with the net proceeds of the Convertible Notes, which was completed in August 2017.. Although our Board of Directors has authorized the stock repurchase program, the stock repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares and may be suspended or terminated at any time. The timing and amount of repurchases, if any, will depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, the trading price of our common stock and the nature of other investment opportunities. In addition, repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect the market price of our common stock or increase its volatility. Additionally, our stock repurchase program could diminish our cash reserves, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions. There can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we determine to repurchase our stock. Although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider to be beneficial.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. The provisions in such certificate of incorporation and bylaws include, among other things, the following:. •  the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval;. •  stockholder action can only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent;. •  advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our board of directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings; and. •  allowing only our board of directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors.. We have elected in our certificate of incorporation not to be subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, an anti-takeover law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with a person or group owning 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless (with certain exceptions) the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, we will not be subject to any anti-takeover effects of Section 203.. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests, including an acquisition that would result in a price per share at a premium over the market price, and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.. 33. Applicable insurance laws may make it difficult to effect a change of control of our company.. State insurance holding company laws require prior approval by the state insurance department of any change of control of an insurer that is domiciled in that respective state. \"Control\" is generally defined as the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a company, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. Control is generally presumed to exist through the direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of a domestic insurance company or any entity that controls a domestic insurance company. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable.. Any issuance of preferred stock could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our common stock, which could depress the price of our common stock.. Our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Our preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discouraging bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price, and adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock.. Our business and stock price may suffer as a result of our limited public company operating experience. In addition, if securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. We completed our initial public offering in May 2014. Our limited public company operating experience may make it difficult to forecast and evaluate our future prospects. If we are unable to execute our business strategy, either as a result of our inability to effectively manage our business in a public company environment or for any other reason, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. In addition, if no or very few securities or industry analysts cover of our company, the trading price for our stock would be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline."
