[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our future operating results may vary substantially from period to period due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these factors and the possible impact of these factors on future results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks or uncertainties not presently known to us or that we deem to be currently immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the price of our Public Common Stock could decline and investors in our Public Common Stock could experience losses on their investment.. We have significant related party transactions.. Cuattro, LLC is a supplier to Heska Imaging, LLC under an Amended and Restated Master License Agreement and Supply Agreement which was negotiated at arm's length as part of the acquisition by Heska Corporation of a majority interest in a predecessor entity to Heska Imaging, LLC. As discussed below,  Mr. Wilson has an interest in these agreements and any time and resources devoted to monitoring and overseeing this relationship may prevent us from deploying such time and resources on more productive matters.. Mr. Wilson's employment agreement with us acknowledges that Mr. Wilson has business interests in Cuattro, LLC, Cuattro Software, LLC and Cuattro Medical, LLC which may require a portion of his time, resources and attention in his working hours.  If Mr. Wilson is distracted by these or other business interests, he may not contribute as much as he otherwise would have to enhancing our business, to the detriment of our shareholder value.  Mr. Wilson is the spouse of Shawna M. Wilson (\"Mrs. Wilson\").  Mr. Wilson, Mrs. Wilson and trusts for their children and family own a majority interest in Cuattro Medical, LLC.  In addition, including equity held by Mrs. Wilson and by trusts for the benefit of Mr. and Mrs. Wilson's children and family, Mr. Wilson also owns a 100% interest in Cuattro, LLC, the largest supplier to Heska Imaging, LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary.  Cuattro, LLC owns a 100% interest in Cuattro Software, LLC.. Cuattro, LLC charged Heska Imaging $17.7 million, $14.5 million, and $9.0 million during 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, primarily related to digital imaging products, for which there is an underlying supply contract with minimum purchase obligations, software and services as well as other operating expenses.  Heska Corporation charged Cuattro, LLC $0.1 million, $0.2 million, and $0.2 million in the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, primarily related to facility usage and other services.. Heska Corporation had a receivable from Cuattro, LLC of $1 thousand and $22 thousand as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively which is included in \"Due from - related parties\" on the Company's consolidated balance sheet. Heska Imaging, LLC had a receivable from Cuattro, LLC of $0 thousand and $78 thousand as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Heska Imaging, LLC owed Cuattro $1.7 million as of December 31, 2017, and Global Imaging owed Cuattro $1.6 million as of December 31, 2016, which is included in \"Due to- related parties\" on the Company's consolidated balance sheets.. We may face costly legal disputes, including disputes related to our intellectual property or technology or that of our suppliers or collaborators.. We may face legal disputes related to our business.  For example, on March 12, 2015, a complaint was filed against us by Shaun Fauley in the United States District Court Northern District of Illinois alleging our transmittal of unauthorized faxes in violation of the federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, as amended by the Junk Fax Prevention Act of 2005, as a class action seeking stated damages of the greater of actual monetary loss or five hundred dollars per violation (\"Fauley Complaint\"). Even if meritless, these. -13-. disputes may require significant expenditures on our part and could entail a significant distraction to members of our management team or other key employees. Insurance coverage may not cover any costs required to litigate a legal dispute or an unfavorable ruling or settlement. We do not have insurance coverage for the Fauley Complaint. A legal dispute leading to an unfavorable ruling or settlement, whether or not insurance coverage may be available for any portion thereof, could have significant material adverse consequences on our business. We may have to use legal means and incur affiliated costs to secure the benefits to which we are entitled, such as to collect payment for goods shipped to third parties, which would reduce our income as compared to what it otherwise would have been.. We may become subject to patent infringement claims and litigation in the United States or other countries or interference proceedings conducted in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, to determine the priority of inventions.  The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, USPTO interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings are likely to be costly, time-consuming and distracting.  As is typical in our industry, from time to time we and our collaborators and suppliers have received, and may in the future receive, notices from third parties claiming infringement and invitations to take licenses under third-party patents.  Any legal action against us or our collaborators or suppliers may require us or our collaborators or suppliers to obtain one or more licenses in order to market or manufacture effected products or services.  However, we or our collaborators or suppliers may not be able to obtain licenses for technology patented by others on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or to develop alternative approaches to access or replace such technology if unable to obtain licenses or current and future licenses may not be adequate, any of which could substantially harm our business.. We may also need to pursue litigation to enforce any patents issued to us or our collaborative partners, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us or our collaborative partners, or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others.  Any litigation or interference proceedings will likely result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of the efforts of our technical and management personnel.  Any adverse determination in litigation or interference proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties.  Further, as a result of litigation or other proceedings, we may be required to seek licenses from third parties which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. If the third parties who have substantial marketing rights for certain of our historical products, existing products or future products under development are not successful in marketing those products, then our sales and financial position may suffer.. We are party to an agreement with Merck Animal Health, which grants Merck Animal Health exclusive distribution and marketing rights for our canine heartworm preventive product, TRI-HEART Plus Chewable Tablets, ultimately sold to or through veterinarians in the United States and Canada.  Historically, a significant portion of our OVP segment's revenue has been generated from the sale of certain bovine vaccines, which have been sold primarily under the Titanium® and MasterGuard® brands. We have a supply agreement with Eli Lilly and its affiliates operating through Elanco for the production of these vaccines. Either of these marketing partners may not devote sufficient resources to marketing our products and our sales and financial position could suffer significantly as a result. Revenue from Merck & Co., Inc. (\"Merck\") entities, including Merck Animal Health, represented 12% of our 2017 revenue. Revenue from Eli Lilly entities, including Elanco, represented 11% of our 2017 revenue. If Merck Animal Health personnel fail to market, sell and support our heartworm preventive sufficiently or if Elanco personnel fail to market, sell and support the bovine vaccines we produce and sell to Elanco sufficiently, our sales could decline significantly. Furthermore, there may be nothing to prevent these partners from pursuing alternative technologies, products or supply arrangements, including as part of mergers, acquisitions or divestitures. For example, we believe a unit of Merck has obtained FDA approval for a canine heartworm preventive product with additional claims. -14-. compared with our TRI-HEART Plus Chewable Tablets, but which we believe is not currently being marketed actively. Should Merck decide to emphasize sales and marketing efforts of this product rather than our TRI-HEART Plus Chewable Tablets or cancel our agreement regarding canine heartworm preventive distribution and marketing, our sales could decline significantly. In another example, if Elanco were to emphasize sales and marketing efforts for bovine vaccines other than those we produce or cancel our supply agreement and produce the vaccines we supply to it by itself, our sales could decline significantly. Third-party marketing assistance may not be available in the future on reasonable terms, if at all. If the third parties with marketing rights for our products were to merge or go out of business, the sale and promotion of our products could be diminished.. We rely substantially on third-party suppliers.  The loss of products or delays in product availability from one or more third-party suppliers could substantially harm our business.. To be successful, we must contract for the supply of, or manufacture ourselves, current and future products of appropriate quantity, quality and cost.  Such products must be available on a timely basis and be in compliance with any regulatory requirements.  Similarly, we must provide ourselves, or contract for the supply of, certain services.  Such services must be provided in a timely and appropriate manner.  Failure to do any of the above could substantially harm our business.. We rely on third-party suppliers to manufacture those products we do not manufacture ourselves and to provide services we do not provide ourselves.  Proprietary products provided by these suppliers represent a majority of our revenue.  We currently rely on these suppliers for our point of care laboratory instruments and consumable supplies for these instruments, for our imaging products and related software and services, for key components of our point-of-care diagnostic tests as well as for the manufacture of other products.. The loss of access to products from one or more suppliers could have a significant, negative impact on our business. Major suppliers who sell us proprietary products who are responsible for more than 5% of our LTM revenue are FUJIFILM Corporation, Cuattro, LLC, and Shenzen Mindray Bio-Medical Electronics Co., Ltd. Only FUJIFILM Corporation sold us products that were responsible for more than 25% of our LTM revenue. We often purchase products from our suppliers under agreements that are of limited duration or potentially can be terminated on an annual basis.  In the case of our point of care laboratory instruments and our digital radiography solutions, post-termination, we are typically entitled to non-exclusive access to consumable supplies, or ongoing non-exclusive access to products and services to meet the needs of an existing customer base, respectively, for a defined period upon expiration of exclusive rights, which could subject us to competitive pressures in the period of non-exclusive access. Although we believe we will be able to maintain a supply of our major product and service offerings in the near future, there can be no assurance that our suppliers will meet their obligations under any agreements we may have in place with them or that we will be able to compel them to do so.  Risks of relying on suppliers include:. • Inability to meet minimum obligations.  Current agreements, or agreements we may negotiate in the future, may commit us to certain minimum purchase or other spending obligations. It is possible we will not be able to create the market demand to meet such obligations, which could create a drain on our financial resources and liquidity. Some such agreements may require minimum purchases and/or sales to maintain product rights and we may be significantly harmed if we are unable to meet such requirements and lose product rights.. • Loss of exclusivity.  In the case of our point of care laboratory instruments, if we are entitled to non-exclusive access to consumable supplies for a defined period upon expiration of exclusive rights, we may face increased competition from a third party with similar non-exclusive access or our former supplier, which could cause us to lose customers and/or significantly decrease our margins and could significantly affect our financial results.  In addition, current agreements, or. -15-. agreements we may negotiate in the future, with suppliers may require us to meet minimum annual sales levels to maintain our position as the exclusive distributor of these products.  We may not meet these minimum sales levels and maintain exclusivity over the distribution and sale of these products.  If we are not the exclusive distributor of these products, competition may increase significantly, reducing our revenues and/or decreasing our margins.. • Changes in economics.  An underlying change in the economics with a supplier, such as a large price increase or new requirement of large minimum purchase amounts, could have a significant, adverse effect on our business, particularly if we are unable to identify and implement an alternative source of supply in a timely manner.. • The loss of product rights upon expiration or termination of an existing agreement.  Unless we are able to find an alternate supply of a similar product, we would not be able to continue to offer our customers the same breadth of products and our sales and operating results would likely suffer.  In the case of an instrument supplier, we could also potentially suffer the loss of sales of consumable supplies, which would be significant in cases where we have built a significant installed base, further harming our sales prospects and opportunities.  Even if we were able to find an alternate supply for a product to which we lost rights, we would likely face increased competition from the product whose rights we lost being marketed by a third party or the former supplier and it may take us additional time and expense to gain the necessary approvals and launch an alternative product.. • High switching costs.  In our point of care laboratory instrument products, we could face significant competition and lose all or some of the consumable revenues from the installed base of those instruments if we were to switch to a competitive instrument.  If we need to change to other commercial manufacturing contractors for certain of our regulated products, additional regulatory licenses or approvals generally must be obtained for these contractors prior to our use.  This would require new testing and compliance inspections prior to sale, thus resulting in potential delays.  Any new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop, substantially equivalent processes necessary for the production of our products.  We likely would have to train our sales force, distribution network employees and customer support organization on the new product and spend significant funds marketing the new product to our customer base.. • The involuntary or voluntary discontinuation of a product line. Unless we are able to find an alternate supply of a similar product in this or similar circumstances with any product, we would not be able to continue to offer our customers the same breadth of products and our sales would likely suffer.  Even if we are able to identify an alternate supply, it may take us additional time and expense to gain the necessary approvals and launch an alternative product, especially if the product is discontinued unexpectedly.. • Inconsistent or inadequate quality control.  We may not be able to control or adequately monitor the quality of products we receive from our suppliers.  Poor quality items could damage our reputation with our customers.. • Limited capacity or ability to scale capacity.  If market demand for our products increases suddenly, our current suppliers might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand.  If we consistently generate more demand for a product than a given supplier is capable of handling, it could lead to large backorders and potentially lost sales to competitive products that are readily available.  This could require us to seek or fund new sources of supply, which may be difficult to find or may require terms that are less advantageous if available at all.. -16-. • Regulatory risk.  Our manufacturing facility and those of some of our third-party suppliers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by regulatory authorities, including the FDA, USDA and other federal, state and foreign agencies for compliance with strictly enforced Good Manufacturing Practices, regulations and similar foreign standards.  We do not have control over our suppliers' compliance with these regulations and standards.  Regulatory violations could potentially lead to interruptions in supply that could cause us to lose sales to readily available competitive products. If one of our suppliers is unable to provide a raw material or finished product due to regulatory issues, it could have a material adverse financial impact on our business and could expose us to legal action if we are unable to perform on contracts to our customers involving related products.. • Developmental delays.  We may experience delays in the scale-up quantities needed for product development that could delay regulatory submissions and commercialization of our products in development, causing us to miss key opportunities.. • Limited geographic rights.  We typically do not have global geographic rights to products supplied by third parties.  If we were to determine a market opportunity in a geography where we did not have distribution rights and were unable to obtain such rights from the supplier, it might hamper our ability to succeed in such geography and our sales and profits would be lower than they otherwise would have been.. • Limited intellectual property rights.  We typically do not have intellectual property rights, or may have to share intellectual property rights, to the products supplied by third parties and any improvements to the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for these products.. Potential problems with suppliers such as those discussed above could substantially decrease sales, lead to higher costs and/or damage our reputation with our customers due to factors such as poor quality goods or delays in order fulfillment, resulting in our being unable to sell our products effectively and substantially harming our business.. The loss of significant customers who, for example, are historically large purchasers or who are considered leaders in their field could damage our business and financial results.. In our CCA Segment, revenue from Butler Animal Health Supply, LLC d/b/a Henry Schein Animal Health (\"Henry Schein\") represented approximately 13%, 13%, and 10% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.  Revenue from Merck entities, including Merck Animal Health, represented approximately 12% for the year ended December 31, 2017, and 11% each for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015.  Revenue from De Lage Landen Financial Services, Inc. (\"DLL\"), represented approximately 7%, 11%, and 10% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.  DLL is a third-party financing company that provides financing and leasing for, primarily, our imaging product customers. In our OVP segment, revenue from Eli Lilly entities, including Elanco, represented approximately 11%, 12% and 12% for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, or 2015.. Henry Schein represented 16% of our consolidated accounts receivable at December 31, 2017 and 2016.  Merck entities represented approximately 15% and 11% of our consolidated accounts receivable at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. DLL represented 11% and 18% of our consolidated accounts receivable at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Eli Lilly entities, including Elanco, represented approximately 3% and 15% of our consolidated accounts receivable at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated accounts receivable at December 31, 2017 or 2016.. -17-. The loss of significant customers who, for example, are historically large purchasers or who are considered leaders in their field could damage our business, reputation, and financial results.. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which could render our products obsolete or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell.  This would limit our ability to compete and maintain sustained profitability.. The market in which we compete is intensely competitive.  Our competitors include independent animal health companies and major pharmaceutical companies that have animal health divisions. We also compete with independent, third-party distributors, including distributors who sell products under their own private labels. In the point-of-care diagnostic testing market, our major competitors include IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. (\"IDEXX\"), Abaxis Inc. (\"Abaxis\"), and Zoetis Inc. (\"Zoetis\"). The products manufactured by our OVP segment for sale by third parties compete with similar products offered by a number of other companies, some of which have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources than us and may have more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than those of our OVP segment customers. Competitors may have facilities with similar capabilities to our OVP segment, which they may operate and sell at a lower unit price to customers than our OVP segment does, which could cause us to lose customers. Companies with a significant presence in the companion animal health market, such as Bayer AG, CEVA Santé Animale, Eli Lilly, Merck, Sanofi, Vétoquinol S.A. and Virbac S.A. may be marketing or developing products that compete with our products or would compete with them if developed. These and other competitors and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales and service organizations than we do. For example, if Zoetis devotes its significant commercial and financial resources to growing its market share in the veterinary allergy market, our allergy-related sales could suffer significantly. Our competitors may offer broader product lines and have greater name recognition than we do. Our competitors may also develop or market technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future products or that would render our technologies and products obsolete. Further, additional competition could come from new entrants to the animal health care market. Moreover, we may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing, sales or support capabilities to compete successfully. Zoetis has recently launched allergy products which may diminish the competitiveness and sales prospects for our own allergy immunotherapy products. IDEXX has recently launched an SDMA test in its point of care laboratory chemistry line, which may cause veterinary customers to prefer IDEXX products to ours.. If we fail to compete successfully, our ability to achieve sustained profitability will be limited and sustained profitability, or profitability at all, may not be possible.. We benefit from relationships or collaboration with third parties, including but not limited to, companies, buying groups, veterinary hospital groups, and reference laboratory entities that operate in our markets.  Beneficial third party, semi-competitive, directly competitive, and cooperative relationships that affect how we go to market, develop products, generate leads, and other commercial efforts of Heska may be negatively affected as a result of consolidation, acquisition, merger, exclusive arrangement, or other agreements or activities between and amongst those third parties and others.. -18-. We depend on key personnel for our future success.  If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals.. Our future success is substantially dependent on the efforts of our senior management and other key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer and President, Kevin Wilson.  The loss of the services of members of our senior management or other key personnel may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives.  Although we have employment agreements with many of these individuals, all are at-will employees, which means that either the employee or Heska may terminate employment at any time without prior notice.  If we lose the services of, or fail to recruit, key personnel, the growth of our business could be substantially impaired.  We do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our senior management or key personnel.. We often depend on third parties for products we intend to introduce in the future.  If our current relationships and collaborations are not successful, we may not be able to introduce the products we intend to introduce in the future.. We are often dependent on third parties and collaborative partners to successfully and timely perform research and development activities to successfully develop new products.  We routinely discuss Heska marketing in the veterinary market instruments being developed by third parties for use in the human health care market.  In the future, one or more of these third parties or collaborative partners may not complete research and development activities in a timely fashion, or at all.  Even if these third parties are successful in their research and development activities, we may not be able to come to an economic agreement with them.  If these third parties or collaborative partners fail to complete research and development activities or fail to complete them in a timely fashion, or if we are unable to negotiate economic agreements with such third parties or collaborative partners, our ability to introduce new products will be impacted negatively and our revenues may decline.. We may be unable to market and sell our products successfully.. We may not develop and maintain marketing and/or sales capabilities successfully, and we may not be able to make arrangements with third parties to perform these activities on satisfactory terms.  If our marketing and sales strategy is unsuccessful, our ability to sell our products will be negatively impacted and our revenues will decrease.  This could result in the loss of distribution rights for products or failure to gain access to new products and could cause damage to our reputation and adversely affect our business and future prospects.. The market for companion animal healthcare products is highly fragmented.  Because our CCA proprietary products are generally available only to veterinarians or by prescription and our medical instruments require technical training to operate, we ultimately sell all our CCA products primarily to or through veterinarians.  The acceptance of our products by veterinarians is critical to our success.  Changes in our ability to obtain or maintain such acceptance or changes in veterinary medical practice could significantly decrease our anticipated sales.  As the vast majority of cash flow to veterinarians ultimately is funded by pet owners without private insurance or government support, our business may be more susceptible to severe economic downturns than other health care businesses which rely less on individual consumers.. For our point of care laboratory blood diagnostics products, we primarily rely on contracts with our veterinary customers for their use of our owned equipment and our consumables supplies over a multiple year period. If veterinarians under these contracts experience a significant downturn in their business, they may not fulfill their use and financial obligations under these contracts. If veterinarians breach our contracts, and we are unable to collect on default payment provisions or otherwise enforce the terms of our contracts, our business will be adversely affected.  If we have to litigate against customer(s) to enforce our contracts, our. -19-. expenses may increase, our sales may decrease to those customers, and our reputation may suffer.  If significant numbers of our customers under contracts for use of our equipment and consumable supplies do not renew their contracts, our business will be adversely affected.. We have entered into agreements with independent third party distributors, including Henry Schein, which we anticipated to market and sell our products to a greater degree than in the recent past. Independent third-party distributors may be effective in increasing sales of our products to veterinarians, although we would expect a corresponding lower gross margin as such distributors typically buy products from us at a discount to end user prices.  It is possible new or existing independent third-party distributors could cannibalize our direct sales efforts and lower our total gross margin.  For us to be effective when working with an independent third-party distributor, the distributor must agree to market and/or sell our products and we must provide proper economic incentives to the distributor as well as contend effectively for the time, energy and focus of the employees of such distributor given other products the distributor may be carrying, potentially including those of our competitors.  If we fail to be effective with new or existing independent third-party distributors, our financial performance may suffer.. Our stock price has historically experienced high volatility, and could do so in the future, including experiencing a material price decline resulting from a large sale in a short period of time.. Should a relatively large shareholder decide to sell a large number of shares in a short period of time, it could lead to an excess supply of our shares available for sale and correspondingly result in a significant decline in our stock price.. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of securities of many small cap companies have in the past been, and can in the future be expected to be, especially volatile.  During the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, the closing stock price of our Public Common Stock has ranged from a low of $71.55 to a high of $110.24. Fluctuations in the trading price or liquidity of our Public Common Stock may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financings.  Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price and marketability of our Public Common Stock include:. • stock sales by large stockholders or by insiders;. • changes in the outlook for our business;. • our quarterly operating results, including as compared to expected revenue or earnings and in comparison to historical results;. • termination, cancellation or expiration of our third-party supplier relationships;. • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or by us;. • litigation;. • regulatory developments, including delays in product introductions;. • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights;. • availability of our revolving line of credit and compliance with debt covenants;. • releases of reports by securities analysts;. • economic and other external factors; and. • general market conditions.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted.  If a securities class action suit is filed against us, it is likely we would incur substantial legal fees and our management's attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation.. -20-. On May 4, 2010, our shareholders approved an amendment (the \"Amendment\") to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  The Amendment places restrictions on the transfer of our stock that could adversely affect our ability to use our domestic Federal Net Operating Loss carryforward (\"NOL\").  In particular, the Amendment prevents the transfer of shares without the approval of our Board of Directors if, as a consequence, an individual, entity or groups of individuals or entities would become a 5-percent holder under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the related Treasury regulations, and also prevents any existing 5-percent holder from increasing his or her ownership position in the Company without the approval of our Board of Directors.  Any transfer of shares in violation of the Amendment (a \"Transfer Violation\") shall be void ab initio under the our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (our \"Certificate of Incorporation\") and our Board of Directors has procedures under our Certificate of Incorporation to remedy a Transfer Violation including requiring the shares causing such Transfer Violation to be sold and any profit resulting from such sale to be transferred to a charitable entity chosen by the Company's Board of Directors in specified circumstances.  The Amendment could have an adverse impact on the value and trading liquidity of our stock if certain buyers who would otherwise have bid on or purchased our stock, including buyers who may not be comfortable owning stock with transfer restrictions, do not bid on or purchase our stock as a result of the Amendment.  In addition, because some corporate takeovers occur through the acquirer's purchase, in the public market or otherwise, of sufficient shares to give it control of a company, any provision that restricts the transfer of shares can have the effect of preventing a takeover.  The Amendment could discourage or otherwise prevent accumulations of substantial blocks of shares in which our stockholders might receive a substantial premium above market value and might tend to insulate management and the Board of Directors against the possibility of removal to a greater degree than had the Amendment not passed.. In February 2018, our Board of Directors granted a waiver to a non-affiliated stockholder to allow the purchase, subject to certain limitations, of up to 730,000 shares of our common stock without causing a Transfer Violation.  This waiver can be withdrawn by our Board of Directors at any time, in which case the non-affiliated stockholder is to only sell our stock until the non-affiliated stockholder ceases to be a Five Percent Shareholder (as defined in our Certificate of Incorporation).  This waiver, and any similar waivers that our Board of Directors may grant in the future, may make it more likely that we have a \"change of ownership\" as defined under the provisions of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which could place a significant restriction on our ability to utilize our domestic Federal NOL in the future and materially adversely affect our results of operations.. Our Credit Facility contains restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business.. In July 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the \"Credit Agreement\") with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (\"Chase\"), which provides for a revolving credit facility of up to $30.0 million (the \"Credit Facility\").  The Credit Facility contains various financial and non-financial operating covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions.  The financial covenants require that we maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio.  The operating covenants limit our ability to, among other things:. • sell, transfer, lease or dispose of our assets;. • create, incur or assume additional indebtedness;. • encumber or permit lines on certain of our assets;. • make restricted payments, including paying dividends on, repurchasing or making distributions with respect to our common stock;. • make specified investments (including loans and advances);. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all our substantially all of our assets; and. • enter into certain transactions.. -21-. A breach of any of these covenants or a material adverse change to our business could result in a default under the Credit Agreement.  Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Credit Agreement, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.  If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness.. Interpretation of existing legislation, regulations and rules, including financial accounting standards, or implementation of future legislation, regulations and rules could cause our costs to increase or could harm us in other ways.. We prepare our financial statements in conformance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or US GAAP.  These accounting principles are established by and are subject to interpretation by the SEC, the FASB and others who interpret and create accounting policies.  A change in those policies or how those policies are interpreted can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is made effective.  Such changes may adversely affect our reported financial results and the way we conduct our business, or have a negative impact on us if we fail to track such changes.. If our regulators and/or auditors adopt or interpret more stringent standards than we anticipate, we could experience unanticipated changes in our reported financial statements, including but not limited to restatements, which could adversely affect our business due to litigation and investor confidence in our financial statements.  In addition, changes in the underlying circumstances to which we apply given accounting standards and principles may affect our results of operations and have a negative impact on us.  For example, we review goodwill recognized on our consolidated balance sheets at least annually and if we were to conclude there was an impairment of goodwill, we would reduce the corresponding goodwill to its estimated fair value and recognize a corresponding expense in our statement of operations.  This impairment and corresponding expense could be as large as the total amount of goodwill recognized on our consolidated balance sheets, which was $26.7 million at December 31, 2017.  There can be no assurance that future goodwill impairments will not occur if projected financial results are not met, or otherwise.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Sarbanes-Oxley\") has increased our required administrative actions and expenses as a public company since its enactment.  The general and administrative costs of complying with Sarbanes-Oxley will depend on how it is interpreted over time.  Of particular concern are the level of standards for internal control evaluation and reporting adopted under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley.  If our regulators and/or auditors adopt or interpret more stringent standards than we anticipate, we and/or our auditors may be unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are designed and operating effectively, which could adversely affect investor confidence in our financial statements and cause our stock price to decline.  Even if we and our auditors are able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is designed and operating effectively in such a circumstance, our general and administrative costs are likely to increase. For example, in both 2017 and 2016, we were required to have our independent registered public accountant conduct an audit of our internal control over financial reporting because as of June 30 of both years our stock market value was above a certain level prescribed by regulation.  This increased our general and administrative costs from what they otherwise would have been.. Similarly, we are required to comply with the SEC's mandate to provide interactive data using the eXtensible Business Reporting Language as an exhibit to certain SEC filings.  Compliance with this mandate has required a significant time investment, which has and may in the future preclude some of our employees from spending time on more productive matters. In addition, future legislative, regulatory or rule-making action or more stringent interpretations of existing legislation, regulations and rules may increase our general and administrative costs or have other adverse effects on us.. -22-. Finally, changes in our tax environment could cause volatility or have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, as taxes are a significant component of our expenses.  On December 22, 2017, H.R. 1, also known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\"), was enacted into law.  The resulting changes in US corporate tax rates, revised rules and taxing regimes could result in a material effect to our results of operations, deferred tax asset value, and financial condition.  Additionally, at this point, it is unclear how many US states will incorporate these federal law changes into their local laws, and to what extent.  We are continuing to evaluate the Act and the resulting impacts.  If our complete and final assessment and understanding of the 2017 Tax Act differs significantly from this initial assessment, or the forthcoming rules, regulations and interpretations change our preliminary conclusions, the resulting impacts could have a material adverse impact on our tax rate and tax expense.. We intend to pursue acquisitions and other strategic development opportunities, which may not result as desired and could be detrimental to our financial position.. We intend to pursue acquisitions and other strategic development opportunities, including minority investments where strategic.  The ultimate business and financial performance of these opportunities may not create, and may end up adversely affecting materially, the value we hope to enhance by pursuing them.  Any acquisition may significantly underperform relative to our financial expectations and may serve to diminish rather than enhance shareholder value.. The success of any acquisition will depend on, among other things, our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions and to apply our internal controls process to these acquired businesses.  The integration of acquisitions may require significant attention from our management, and the diversion of management's attention and resources could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business.  Furthermore, we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits we anticipated when we first entered into the acquisition transaction.  If actual integration costs are higher than amounts originally anticipated, if we are unable to integrate the assets and personnel acquired in an acquisition as anticipated, or if we are unable to fully benefit from anticipated synergies, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.  Furthermore, it is possible we will use management time and resources to pursue opportunities we ultimately are unable or decide not to consummate, in which case, we may not be able to utilize such management time and resources on what may have proved to be more productive matters in other areas of our business.. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals in order to market our products may be costly and delay the marketing and sales of our products.  Failure to meet all regulatory requirements could cause significant losses from affected inventory and the loss of market share.. Many of the products we develop, market or manufacture may subject us to extensive regulation by one or more of the USDA, the FDA, the EPA and foreign and other regulatory authorities.  These regulations govern, among other things, the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, pre-market approval, advertising, promotion and sale of some of our products.  Satisfaction of these requirements can take several years and time needed to satisfy them may vary substantially, based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product.  The decision by a regulatory authority to regulate a currently non-regulated product or product area could significantly impact our revenue and have a corresponding adverse impact on our financial performance and position while we attempt to comply with the new regulation, if such compliance is possible at all.. The effect of government regulation may be to delay or to prevent marketing of our products for a considerable period of time and to impose costly procedures upon our activities.  We may not be able to estimate the time to obtain required regulatory approvals accurately and such approvals may require. -23-. significantly more time than we anticipate.  We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, difficulties that could delay or prevent us from obtaining the regulatory approval or license necessary to introduce or market our products.  Such delays in approval may cause us to forego a significant portion of a new product's sales in its first year due to seasonality and advanced booking periods associated with certain products.  Regulatory approval of our products may also impose limitations on the indicated or intended uses for which our products may be marketed.. Difficulties in making established products to all regulatory specifications may lead to significant losses related to affected inventory as well as market share.  Among the conditions for certain regulatory approvals is the requirement that our facilities and/or the facilities of our third-party manufacturers conform to current Good Manufacturing Practices and other requirements.  If any regulatory authority determines that our manufacturing facilities or those of our third-party manufacturers do not conform to appropriate manufacturing requirements, we or the manufacturers of our products may be subject to sanctions, including, but not limited to, warning letters, manufacturing suspensions, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, refusal to permit products to be imported into or exported out of the United States, refusals of regulatory authorities to grant approval or to allow us to enter into government supply contracts, withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications, civil fines and criminal prosecutions.  Furthermore, third parties may perceive procedures required to obtain regulatory approval objectionable and may attempt to disrupt or otherwise damage our business as a result.  In addition, certain of our agreements may require us to pay penalties if we are unable to supply products, including for failure to maintain regulatory approvals.. Any of these events, alone or in combination with others, could damage our business.. Our future revenues depend on successful product development, commercialization and/or market acceptance, any of which can be slower than we expect or may not occur.. The product development and regulatory approval process for many of our potential products is extensive and may take substantially longer than we anticipate.  Research projects may fail.  New products that we may be developing for the veterinary marketplace may not perform consistently within our expectations.  Because we have limited resources to devote to product development and commercialization, any delay in the development of one product or reallocation of resources to product development efforts that prove unsuccessful may delay or jeopardize the development of other product candidates.  If we fail to successfully develop new products and bring them to market in a timely manner, our ability to generate additional revenue will decrease.. Even if we are successful in the development of a product or obtain rights to a product from a third-party supplier, we may experience delays or shortfalls in commercialization and/or market acceptance of the product.  For example, veterinarians may be slow to adopt a product, a product may not achieve the anticipated technical performance in field use or there may be delays in producing large volumes of a product.  The former is particularly likely where there is no comparable product available or historical precedent for such a product.  The ultimate adoption of a new product by veterinarians, the rate of such adoption and the extent veterinarians choose to integrate such a product into their practice are all important factors in the economic success of any new products and are factors that we do not control to a large extent.  If our products do not achieve a significant level of market acceptance, demand for our products will not develop as expected and our revenues will be lower than we anticipate.. Many of our expenses are fixed and if factors beyond our control cause our revenue to fluctuate, this fluctuation could cause greater than expected losses, cash flow and liquidity shortfalls.. We believe that our future operating results will fluctuate on a quarterly basis due to a variety of factors which are generally beyond our control, including:. -24-. • supply of products, including minimum purchase agreements, from third-party suppliers or termination, cancellation or expiration of such relationships;. • competition and pricing pressures from competitive products;. • the introduction of new products or services by our competitors or by us;. • large customers failing to purchase at historical levels;. • fundamental shifts in market demand;. • manufacturing delays;. • shipment problems;. • information technology problems, which may prevent us from conducting our business effectively, or at all, and may also raise our costs;. • regulatory and other delays in product development;. • product recalls or other issues which may raise our costs;. • changes in our reputation and/or market acceptance of our current or new products; and. • changes in the mix of products sold.. We have high operating expenses, including those related to personnel.  Many of these expenses are fixed in the short term and may increase over time.  If any of the factors listed above cause our revenues to decline, our operating results could be substantially harmed.. Cyberattack related breaches of the Company's information technology systems could have an adverse effect on our business.. Cyberattacks, ranging from the use of malware, computer viruses, dedicated denial of services attacks, credential harvesting, social engineering and other means for obtaining unauthorized access to or disrupting our Company's ability to operate normally, could have an effect on our business.  Cyberattacks may cause equipment failures, loss of information, including sensitive personal information of vendors, customers or employees or valuable technical and marketing information, as well as disruptions to our or our vendor or customers' operations. These attacks may be committed by company employees or external actors operating in any geography, including jurisdictions where law enforcement measures to address such attacks are unavailable or ineffective. Cyberattacks may occur alone or in conjunction with physical attacks, especially where disruption of service is an objective of the attacker.  While, to date, we have not been subject to cyberattacks which, individually or in the aggregate, have been material to Heska Corporation's operations or financial condition, the preventive actions we take to reduce the risks associated with cyberattacks, including protection of our systems and networks, may be insufficient to repel or mitigate the effects of a major cyberattack in the future.. The Company devotes significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect its systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. The Company requires user names and passwords to access its information technology systems. The Company also uses encryption and authentication technologies designed to secure the transmission and storage of data and prevent unauthorized access. The Company also conducts periodic internal training and educational communications to raise and maintain employee cybersecurity awareness.  To the extent the Company was to experience a breach of its systems and was unable to protect sensitive data, such a breach could materially damage business partner and customer relationships, and reduce or otherwise negatively impact access to online services. Moreover, if a computer security breach affects the Company's systems or results in the unauthorized release of Personally Identifiable Information (PII), the Company's reputation and brand could be materially damaged. Use of the Company's products and services could decrease, and the Company could be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability.. -25-. We have less than 300 holders of record, which could allow us to terminate voluntarily the registration of our common stock with the SEC and after which we would no longer be eligible to maintain the listing of our Public Common Stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market. We may also be unable to otherwise maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market.. We have less than 300 holders of record as of our latest information, a fact which could make us eligible to terminate voluntarily the registration of our common stock with the SEC and therefore suspend our reporting obligations with the SEC under the Exchange Act and become a non-reporting company.  If we were to cease reporting with the SEC, we would no longer be eligible to maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market, which we would expect to materially adversely affect the liquidity and market price for our common stock.  The Nasdaq Capital Market has several additional quantitative and qualitative requirements companies must comply with to maintain this listing. While we believe, we are currently in compliance with all Nasdaq requirements, there can be no assurance we will continue to meet Nasdaq listing requirements, that Nasdaq will interpret these requirements in the same manner we do if we believe we meet the requirements, or that Nasdaq will not change such requirements or add new requirements to include requirements we do not meet in the future.. If we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, our Public Common Stock may be considered a penny stock under the regulations of the SEC and would therefore be subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities.  The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our Public Common Stock, which could severely limit market liquidity of the Public Common Stock and any stockholder's ability to sell our securities in the secondary market.  This lack of liquidity would also likely make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future.. We may not be able to continue to achieve sustained profitability or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.. Prior to 2005, we incurred net losses on an annual basis since our inception in 1988 and, as of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $143.5 million.  Relatively small differences in our performance metrics may cause us to generate an operating or net loss in future periods.  Our ability to continue to be profitable in future periods will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales in our CCA segment, including maintaining and growing our installed base of instruments and related consumables, to maintain or increase gross margins and to limit the increase in our operating expenses to a reasonable level as well as avoid or effectively manage any unanticipated issues.  We may not be able to generate, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.  If we cannot achieve or sustain profitability for an extended period, we may not be able to fund our expected cash needs, including the repayment of debt as it comes due, or continue our operations.. We may face product returns and product liability litigation in excess of, or not covered by, our insurance coverage or indemnities and/or warranties from our suppliers.  If we become subject to product liability claims resulting from defects in our products, we may fail to achieve market acceptance of our products and our sales could substantially decline.. The testing, manufacturing and marketing of our current products as well as those currently under development entail an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity.  Following the introduction of a product, adverse side effects may be discovered.  Adverse publicity regarding such effects could affect sales of our other products for an indeterminate time period.  To date, we have not experienced any material product liability claims, but any claim arising in the future could substantially harm our business.  Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from. -26-. coverage under the terms of the policy.  We may not be able to continue to obtain adequate insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all.  In the event that we are held liable for a claim against which we are not indemnified or for damages exceeding the $10 million limit of our insurance coverage or which results in significant adverse publicity against us, we may lose revenue, be required to make substantial payments which could exceed our financial capacity and/or lose or fail to achieve market acceptance.. We may be held liable for the release of hazardous materials, which could result in extensive remediation costs or otherwise harm our business.. Certain of our products and development programs produced at our Des Moines, Iowa facility involve the controlled use of hazardous and bio hazardous materials, including chemicals and infectious disease agents.  Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable local, state and federal regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials.  In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any fines, penalties, remediation costs or other damages that result.  Our liability for the release of hazardous materials could exceed our resources, which could lead to a shutdown of our operations, significant remediation costs and potential legal liability.  In addition, we may incur substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations if we choose to expand our manufacturing capacity."
