[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant risks, including the risk factors described below. These risk factors could negatively affect our operations, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, and as a result, holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments. It is possible that additional risks relating to our securities may be described in a prospectus if we issue securities in the future.. Risks Related to Our Business. Hess currently accounts for substantially all of our revenues. If Hess changes its business strategy, is unable for any reason, including financial or other limitations, to satisfy its obligations under our commercial agreements, our revenues would decline and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, substantially all of our revenues were attributable to our fee - based commercial agreements with Hess, including revenues from third - party volumes delivered under these agreements. We expect that we will continue to derive substantially all of our revenues under multiple commercial agreements with Hess and any event, whether in our areas of operation or elsewhere, that materially and adversely affects Hess's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may adversely affect our ability to sustain or increase cash distributions to our unitholders. Accordingly, we are indirectly subject to the operational and business risks of Hess, the most significant of which include the following:. •  the effects of changing commodity prices and production margins;. •  Hess's ability to successfully increase its Bakken production;. 19. Table of Contents. •  the inherent uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves and the possibility that actual Bakken production may be lower than estimated;. •  changing laws and regulations and other governmental actions;. •  substantial capital requirements and Hess's ability to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all;. •  political instability in areas where Hess operates that can adversely affect Hess's business;. •  environmental risks and environmental laws and regulations that can result in significant costs and liabilities;. •  climate change initiatives that can result in significant operational changes and expenditures, reduced demand for Hess's products and adversely affect Hess's business;. •  catastrophic events, whether naturally occurring or man-made, may materially affect Hess's operations and financial condition;. •  significant time delays between the estimated and actual occurrence of critical events associated with Hess's development projects may result in material negative economic consequences;. •  departure of key members from Hess's senior management team, and/or difficulty in recruiting and retaining adequate numbers of experienced technical personnel, could negatively impact Hess's ability to deliver on its strategic goals;. •  Hess's dependency on oilfield service companies for items including drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor and its ability to secure these services, or a high cost thereof, may result in material negative economic consequences; and. •  Cyber - attacks targeting computer, telecommunication systems, and infrastructure used by the oil and gas industry that may materially impact Hess's business and operations.. We may not generate sufficient distributable cash flow to support the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders.. In order to support the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.30 per unit per quarter, or $1.20 per unit on an annualized basis, we must generate distributable cash flow of approximately $16.7 million per quarter, or approximately $66.8 million per year, based on the number of common units and subordinated units and the general partner interest outstanding as of December 31, 2017. We may not generate sufficient distributable cash flow each quarter to support the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. •  the volumes of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs that we handle on our assets;. •  the fees with respect to volumes that we handle on our assets;. •  the level of competition from other midstream energy companies in our geographic markets; and. •  outages at our facilities caused by mechanical failure, maintenance, construction and other similar activities.. In addition, the actual amount of distributable cash flow we generate will also depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. •  the amount of our operating expenses and general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to Hess, which are not subject to any caps or other limits, in respect of those expenses;. •  the level of capital expenditures we make;. •  the cost of acquisitions, if any;. •  fluctuations in our working capital needs;. •  our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. •  restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and other debt instruments;. •  our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. •  the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner;. •  changes in commodity prices; and. •  other business risks affecting our cash levels.. Hess may suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations under our commercial agreements in certain circumstances, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. Our commercial agreements with Hess include provisions that permit Hess to suspend or terminate its obligations under the applicable agreement if certain events occur. These events include our failure to perform or comply with a material warranty, covenant or obligation under the applicable commercial agreement following the expiration of a specified cure period. In addition, Hess may suspend or reduce its obligations under our commercial agreements if a force majeure event prevents us from performing required services under the applicable agreement. Hess has the ability to make such decisions notwithstanding the fact that they may significantly and adversely affect us. Any such reduction or suspension or termination of Hess's obligations would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. 20. Table of Contents. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells in our areas of operation, our success depends, in part, on Hess and other producers replacing declining production and also on our ability to secure new sources of natural gas and crude oil. Any decrease in the volumes of natural gas or crude oil that we handle could adversely affect our business and operating results.. The natural gas and crude oil volumes that support our business depend on the level of production from natural gas and crude oil wells connected to our facilities, which may be less than expected and will naturally decline over time. As a result, our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels at our facilities, Hess and other producers for which we currently or in the future may handle volumes at our facilities must replace declining production, or we must obtain new sources of natural gas and crude oil. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain non - dedicated sources of natural gas and crude oil include (i) the level of successful drilling activity in our areas of operation, (ii) our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells and (iii) our ability to compete successfully for volumes from sources connected to other pipelines.. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to our systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, we have no control over Hess or other producers or their drilling or production decisions, which are affected by, among other things:. •  the availability and cost of capital;. •  prevailing and projected crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices;. •  demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs;. •  levels of reserves;. •  geological considerations;. •  environmental or other governmental regulations, including the timely availability of drilling permits and the regulation of hydraulic fracturing and flaring; and. •  the availability of drilling rigs and other costs of production and equipment.. Fluctuations in commodity prices can also greatly affect the development of crude oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling and production activity generally decreases as crude oil and natural gas prices decrease. Declines in crude oil and natural gas prices could have a negative impact on exploration, development and production activity, and if sustained, could lead to a material decrease in such activity. For example, as a result of the decline in crude oil prices beginning in late 2014, Hess reduced its rig count to two rigs in the Bakken by the end of 2016. Hess operated an average of four rigs in the Bakken during 2017; however, total Bakken rig count continues to fluctuate. Sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in our areas of operation could lead to reduced utilization of our assets.. Because of these and other factors, even if crude oil and natural gas reserves are known to exist in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If reductions in drilling activity result in our inability to maintain the current levels of throughput on our systems, those reductions could reduce our revenues and cash flow and adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our success depends on our ability to attract and maintain customers in a limited number of geographic areas.. Substantially all of our assets are located in the Bakken, and we initially intend to focus our future capital expenditures largely on developing our business in that area. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are significantly dependent upon the demand for our services in that area. Due to our focus on the Bakken, an adverse development in crude oil or natural gas production from that area would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we spread expenditures more evenly over a wider geographic area. For example, a change in the rules and regulations governing operations in or around the Bakken could cause Hess or other producers to reduce or cease drilling or to permanently or temporarily shut - in their production within the area, which could lead to a decrease in the volumes of natural gas and crude oil that we handle and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Seasonal weather conditions may adversely affect our customers' ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate and our ability to operate our assets and to construct additional facilities.. Crude oil and natural gas operations in North Dakota are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions. In the Bakken, drilling and other crude oil and natural gas activities can be adversely affected during the winter months. Severe winter weather conditions limit and may reduce or temporarily halt our customers' ability to operate during such conditions, leading to the decrease in drilling activity and the potential shut - in of producing wells which the producers are unable to service. This could result in a decrease in the volumes of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs supplied to our assets. In addition, seasonal weather conditions during the winter months may adversely impact the operations of our assets and our ability to construct additional facilities, by causing temporary delays and shutdowns. These constraints and the resulting impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. 21. Table of Contents. Our operations and Hess's Bakken production operations are subject to many risks and operational hazards, some of which may result in business interruptions and shutdowns of our or Hess's operations and damages for which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that results in a business interruption or shutdown for which we are not adequately insured, our operations and financial results could be materially and adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and operational hazards inherent in gathering, compressing, processing, fractionating, terminaling, storing, loading and transporting crude oil, natural gas and NGLs, including:. •  damages to pipelines, terminals and facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by earthquakes, tornados, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism;. •  maintenance, repairs, mechanical or structural failures at our or Hess's facilities or at third - party facilities on which our or Hess's operations are dependent, including electrical shortages, power disruptions and power grid failures;. •  damages to and loss of availability of interconnecting third - party pipelines, railroads, terminals and other means of delivering crude oil, natural gas and NGLs;. •  crude oil tank car derailments, fires, explosions and spills;. •  disruption or failure of information technology systems and network infrastructure due to various causes, including unauthorized access or attack;. •  curtailments of operations due to severe seasonal weather;. •  protests, riots, strikes, lockouts or other industrial disturbances; and. •  other hazards.. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage, as well as business interruptions or shutdowns of our facilities. Any such event or unplanned shutdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Hess's Bakken production operations, on which our operations are substantially dependent, are subject to similar operational hazards and risks inherent in producing crude oil and natural gas. A serious accident at our facilities or at Hess's facilities could result in serious injury or death to our employees or contractors or those of Hess or its affiliates and could expose us to significant liability for personal injury claims and reputational risk. We have no control over the operations at Hess's Bakken operations and their associated facilities.. We do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses and could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. We carry insurance coverage for certain property damage and third-party liabilities, which includes sudden and accidental pollution liabilities. We are also insured under certain of Hess's and Hess Infrastructure Partners' liability policies and are subject to Hess's and Hess Infrastructure Partners' policy limits under these policies. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance or failure by one or more insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, although Hess Infrastructure Partners has agreed to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities under the omnibus agreement, the indemnification is limited to $15 million (inclusive of any punitive, special, indirect or consequential damages) and may not be sufficient to cover any such liabilities that may arise. However, any costs we may incur as a result of the February 2013 Notice of Violation that Hess received from the North Dakota Department of Health will not be subject to the $15 million limit.. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from Hess Infrastructure Partners or third parties, our future growth would be limited, and any acquisitions we may make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders.. Part of our strategy to grow our business and increase our cash distributions per unit to unitholders is dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in distributable cash flow per unit. The acquisition component of our growth strategy is based, in large part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of midstream assets by industry participants, including Hess Infrastructure Partners. Hess Infrastructure Partners has provided us with a right of first offer to acquire its retained interests in our joint interest assets. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions of these right of first offer assets will depend upon, among other things, Hess Infrastructure Partners' willingness to offer these assets for sale, our ability to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements and commercial agreements with respect to the assets and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisition of our right of first offer assets.. 22. Table of Contents. If we are unable to make acquisitions from Hess Infrastructure Partners or third parties, because (i) there is a material decrease in divestitures of midstream assets, (ii) we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, (iii) we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, (iv) we are outbid by competitors or (v) for any other reason, our future growth and ability to increase our cash distributions per unit will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, they may in fact result in a decrease in distributable cash flow per unit as a result of incorrect assumptions in our evaluation of such acquisitions or unforeseen consequences or other external events beyond our control. If we consummate any future acquisitions, unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating any such acquisitions.. We may not be able to significantly increase our third - party revenues due to competition and other factors, which could limit our ability to grow and extend our dependence on Hess.. Part of our growth strategy includes diversifying our customer base by identifying opportunities to offer services to third parties with our existing assets or by constructing or acquiring new assets independently from Hess. Our ability to increase our third - party revenues is subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including prevailing commodity prices, competition from third parties and the extent to which we lack available capacity when third - party customers require it. For example, the decline in crude oil prices beginning in late 2014 caused producers to reduce exploration, development and production activities, which resulted in a decrease in third - party volumes available to be handled by our assets. In addition, our natural gas and crude oil gathering systems and Tioga Gas Plant are subject to competition from existing and future third - party natural gas and crude oil gathering systems and natural gas processing and fractionation plants in the Bakken, while our terminals and crude oil rail cars compete with third - party terminals, pipelines and crude oil rail cars for available third - party volumes. To the extent that we have available capacity on our gathering systems or at our Tioga Gas Plant for third-party volumes, we may not be able to compete effectively with third - party gathering systems or processing plants for additional natural gas production in the area. To the extent that we have available capacity at our terminals or crude oil rail cars for third - party volumes, competition from other existing or future terminals or crude oil rail cars owned by third parties may limit our ability to utilize this available capacity.. We have historically provided midstream services to third parties on only a limited basis, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to attract any material third - party service opportunities. Our efforts to attract new unaffiliated customers may be adversely affected by our relationship with Hess and our desire to provide services pursuant to fee - based contracts. Our potential customers may prefer to obtain services under other forms of contractual arrangements under which we would be required to assume direct commodity exposure.. The completion of capital projects by us may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to increase utilization of our existing asset base and increase revenue at our facilities by handling additional volumes of natural gas and crude oil resulting from the completion of various capital projects by us. For example, we recently completed a construction and reconfiguration of facilities and pipelines in McKenzie and Williams Counties that increased our throughput capacity for crude oil and natural gas originating from south of the Missouri River and moving northward to our natural gas processing and crude oil and NGL terminaling assets in Tioga and Ramberg, and we will be investing in construction of Little Missouri Four gas processing plant south of the Missouri River as part of the recently announced joint venture with Targa Resources Corp.. There are inherent risks associated with undertaking these and other capital projects, including numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost, or their completion may not result in the anticipated increase in volumes at our facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability in the future to make distributions to our unitholders.. Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We compete with other similarly sized midstream companies in our areas of operation. In addition, some of our competitors have assets in closer proximity to crude oil and natural gas supplies and have available idle capacity in existing assets that would not require new capital investments for use. Some of our competitors are large companies that have greater financial, managerial and other resources than we do. Our competitors may expand or construct gathering systems processing plants, terminals or storage facilities that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flow could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. 23. Table of Contents. Our exposure to direct commodity price risk may increase in the future.. We generate substantially all of our revenues under fee - based commercial agreements with Hess under which we are paid based on the volumes of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs that we handle and the ancillary services we provide, rather than the value of the commodities themselves. As a result, our operations and cash flows generally have minimal direct exposure to commodity price risk. We may acquire or develop additional assets in the future or enter into transactions that have a greater exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices than our current operations. In addition, our efforts to negotiate contractual arrangements to minimize our direct exposure to commodity price risk in the future may not be successful. Increased exposure to the volatility of crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices in the future could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We do not own all of the land on which certain of the pipelines connecting our facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines are located, and we are, therefore, subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid leases or rights - of - way or if such rights - of - way lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies, and some of our agreements may grant us those rights for only a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right - of - way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We utilize contract operator services at certain of our assets, and we may face higher costs associated with terminal services in the future.. We utilize contract operator services at certain of our assets. For example, we utilize contract operator services at our Tioga Rail Terminal under a rail and transload services agreement with a third - party operator that may be terminated by us with 90 days' notice. Under the terms of the agreement, third - party contract personnel supervised by Hess employees control, monitor, record and report on the operation of the Tioga Rail Terminal. Contract personnel also provide inspection, crude oil loading, railroad consulting, inventory management, repair, data reporting, general maintenance and technical support and safety compliance services. Under this agreement, we are liable for any losses resulting from actions of the third - party operator unless such losses result from the negligence of the third - party operator. If disputes arise over the operation of the terminal, or if the third - party operator fails to provide the services contracted under contract operator services agreements, our business, results of operation, and financial condition could be adversely affected. In September 2016, we extended the term of this agreement for three years and expanded services to include rail car qualification and maintenance management. Costs of these services under a negotiated renewal of the existing agreement or a similar agreement may increase relative to historical costs. Any such increased costs associated with terminal operation services will decrease the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders and the value of our units.. We are dependent upon the earnings and cash flow generated by our operations in order to meet any debt service obligations and to allow us to make cash distributions to our unitholders. On March 15, 2017, we entered into a new four - year, $300.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility, which contains various operating and financial restrictions and covenants. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our new revolving credit facility restricts, and any future financing agreements could similarly restrict, our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. The provisions of our revolving credit facility could affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility would result in an event of default which would enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our other debt instruments, if any, may be triggered, and our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Please read \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity\" for additional information about our revolving credit facility.. 24. Table of Contents. The level and terms of Hess's and Hess Infrastructure Partners' indebtedness and any reduction in Hess's or Hess Infrastructure Partners' credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to grow our business and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our ability to obtain credit in the future may also be adversely affected by the credit ratings of Hess and Hess Infrastructure Partners.. Hess must devote a portion of its cash flows from operating activities to service its indebtedness, and therefore cash flows may not be available for use in pursuing its growth strategy. Furthermore, a higher level of indebtedness at Hess in the future would increase the risk that it may default on its obligations to us under our commercial agreements. As of December 31, 2017, Hess had total indebtedness (including indebtedness attributable to Hess Infrastructure Partners) of approximately $7 billion. In addition, the covenants in the agreements governing Hess Infrastructure Partners' outstanding and future indebtedness may limit its ability to borrow additional funds for development and make certain investments and may also limit its ability to satisfy its funding obligations, if any, relating to our joint interest assets. Furthermore, if Hess Infrastructure Partners were to default under certain of its debt obligations, there is a risk that Hess Infrastructure Partners' creditors would attempt to assert claims against our assets during the litigation of their claims against Hess Infrastructure Partners. The defense of any such claims could be costly and could materially impact our financial condition, even absent any adverse determination. If these claims were successful, our ability to meet our obligations to our creditors, make distributions and finance our operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Two of the three major credit rating agencies that rate Hess's debt have assigned Hess an investment grade rating. In addition, Hess Infrastructure Partners' indebtedness is assigned a non-investment grade rating by the three credit rating agencies. If these credit ratings are lowered in the future, the interest rate and fees Hess and Hess Infrastructure Partners pay on their credit facilities may increase. Although we do not have any indebtedness rated by any credit rating agency, we may have rated debt in the future. Credit rating agencies may consider Hess's and Hess Infrastructure Partners' debt ratings when assigning ours because of their ownership interest in us, the significant commercial relationships between Hess and us, and our reliance on commercial agreements with Hess for substantially all of our revenues. If one or more credit rating agencies were to downgrade the outstanding indebtedness of Hess or Hess Infrastructure Partners, we could experience an increase in our borrowing costs or difficulty accessing the capital markets. Such a development could adversely affect our ability to grow our business and to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our assets and operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and safety that could require us to make substantial expenditures.. Our assets and operations pose risks of environmental liability due to, for example, spills, leaks and discharges of substances to the environment. To address these and other risks, we are subject to stringent federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and safety. Multiple governmental authorities, such as the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly response actions. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our and our customer's operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital or operating expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our or our customers' operations, the imposition of specific standards addressing worker protection, and the imposition of substantial liabilities and remedial obligations for pollution or contamination resulting from our and our customer's operations. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in joint and several, strict liability and the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. Private parties may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for non-compliance, with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. In addition, we may experience a delay in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits, which may cause us to lose potential and current customers, interrupt operations, and limit growth and revenues, which in turn could affect our profitability.. The handling of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs involves inherent risks of spills and releases from our facilities. We have contracted with various spill response service companies in the areas in which we gather, load, transport or store crude oil and NGLs; however, these companies may not be able to adequately contain a \"worst case discharge\" in all instances, and we cannot ensure that all of their services would be available at any given time.. 25. Table of Contents. If our assets become subject to FERC regulation, or if federal, state or local regulations or policies change, or if we fail to comply with such regulations, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. We believe that our natural gas gathering and transportation operations are exempt from regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, under the Natural Gas Act, or the NGA. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by FERC under the NGA. Although FERC has not made any formal determinations with respect to all of our natural gas gathering facilities upstream of the Tioga Gas Plant, we believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish whether a pipeline is a gathering pipeline not subject to FERC jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC - regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services, however, has been the subject of substantial litigation, and FERC determines whether facilities are gathering facilities on a case - by - case basis, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress. If FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility is not exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, the rates for, and terms and conditions of, services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by FERC under the NGA or the Natural Gas Policy Act, or the NGPA. Such regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs, and, depending upon the facility in question, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if any of our facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the NGA or the NGPA, this could result in the imposition of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, as well as a requirement to disgorge charges collected for such services in excess of the rate established by FERC.. We believe that the crude oil and NGL pipelines in our gathering system are not subject to regulation by FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act because they do not provide interstate transportation or would otherwise fall outside FERC jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC - regulated interstate crude or NGLs transportation is a case - by - case determination. If FERC were to determine that any of our crude oil or NGL pipelines were providing interstate transportation, we may be required to operate as a common carrier and the rates for, and terms and conditions of the transportation services provided by such pipelines would be subject to regulation by FERC under the ICA. Such FERC regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs, and, depending on the facility in question, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if any of our facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the ICA, this could result in the imposition of administrative and criminal remedies and civil penalties.. State regulation of gathering facilities and intrastate transportation pipelines generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take and common purchaser requirements, as well as complaint-based rate regulation. Other state regulations may not directly apply to our business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas, crude oil and NGLs for purchase, compression and sale.. Moreover, FERC's natural gas regulation indirectly impacts our businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERC's policies, including its policies on open access transportation, gas quality, capacity release and market center promotion, indirectly affect intrastate natural gas markets.. In addition, if we fail to comply with the NGA or NGPA, FERC rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and NGPA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,238,271 per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation.. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and any related pipeline repair or preventative or remedial measures.. The United States Department of Transportation, or DOT, through the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, or PHMSA, has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm, in \"high consequence areas.\" The regulations require operators to:. •  perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. •  identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area;. •  improve data collection, integration and analysis;. •  repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and. •  implement preventive and mitigating actions.. 26. Table of Contents. The Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011, or the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act, among other things, increased the maximum civil penalty for pipeline safety violations and directed the Secretary of Transportation to promulgate rules or standards relating to expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valve use, excess flow valve use, leak detection system installation and testing to confirm the material strength of pipe operating above 30% of specified minimum yield strength in high consequence areas. Consistent with the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act, PHMSA finalized rules consistent with the signed act that increased the maximum administrative civil penalties for violations of the pipeline safety laws and regulations to $200,000 per violation per day, with a maximum of $2,000,000 for a related series of violations. Effective April 27, 2017, those maximum civil penalties were increased to $209,002 per violation per day, with a maximum of $2,090,022 for a series of violations, to account for inflation. Additionally, in May 2011, PHMSA published a final rule adding reporting obligations and integrity management standards to certain rural low stress hazardous liquid pipelines that were not previously regulated in such manner. Should we fail to comply with DOT, PHMSA or comparable state regulations, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines, which could impact our result of operations.. PHMSA regularly proposes revisions to existing regulations as well as new pipeline safety regulations. For example, in March 2015, PHMSA issued final rules applicable to natural gas and hazardous liquid (including crude oil and NGL) pipelines that, among other changes, impose new post - construction inspections, welding, gas component pressure testing requirements, as well as requirements for calculating pressure reductions for immediate repairs on liquid pipelines. In September 2015, PHMSA issued a rule indefinitely delaying the effective date for the portion of the rule addressing post - construction inspections. In October 2015, PHMSA issued a proposed rule for hazardous liquid pipelines that would significantly extend and expand the reach of certain PHMSA integrity management requirements (i.e., periodic assessments, leak detection and repairs), regardless of the pipeline's proximity to a high consequence area. The proposal also mandated new reporting requirements for certain unregulated pipelines, including all gathering lines. In April 2016, pursuant to one of the requirements of the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act, PHMSA published a proposed rulemaking that would expand integrity management requirements and impose new pressure testing requirements on currently regulated gas transmission pipelines. The proposal would also significantly expand the regulation of gas gathering lines, subjecting previously unregulated pipelines to requirements regarding damage prevention, corrosion control, public education programs, maximum allowable operating pressure limits, and other requirements. PHMSA has not yet finalized such natural gas pipeline regulations. The scope and timing of such final natural gas pipeline regulations are uncertain at this time. On January 13, 2017, PHMSA issued a final rule amending its proposed hazardous liquid pipeline regulations, imposing stricter standards on operators for determining how to repair aging and high - risk infrastructure, and increasing the frequency of tests to assess the condition of pipelines. Under the final rule, the revised regulations are to take effect six months after the date of publication in the Federal Register. The final rule was not published in the Federal Register. On January 20, 2017, the Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff for the White House issued a memorandum to the heads of all federal executive departments and agencies instructing the agencies to withdraw regulations that have been sent to the Office of the Federal Register, but that have not yet been published, so that they can be reviewed and approved by the new administration. It is not clear at this time whether further amendments will be made to the hazardous liquid pipeline regulations, or when such hazardous liquid pipeline regulations will be implemented.. The adoption of these and other laws or regulations that apply more comprehensive or stringent safety standards could require us to install new or modified safety controls, pursue new capital projects, or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, all of which could require us to incur increased operational costs that could be significant. While we cannot predict the outcome of legislative or regulatory initiatives, such legislative and regulatory changes could have a material effect on our cash flow.. Changes in laws or standards affecting crude oil tank cars or the transportation of North American crude oil by rail could require retrofitting our existing car fleet and/or reduce volumes throughput at our facilities, and as a result our revenues could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders.. Rail car derailments in Canada and the United States have led to increased regulatory scrutiny over the safety of transporting Bakken crude oil by rail. In the wake of derailments several years ago, the Federal Railroad Administration, or FRA, of the DOT, and the DOT's PHMSA, issued several Safety Advisories and Emergency Orders directing offerors and rail carriers to take additional precautionary measures to enhance the safe shipment of bulk quantities of crude oil. In May 2015, DOT finalized its rail safety rule for \"high hazard flammable trains,\" which focused on safety improvements designed to prevent accidents, mitigate consequences in the event of an accident, and support emergency response. The new rule specified technical requirements for new tank cars, denominated DOT - 117s, used for the transportation of crude oil by rail. Challenges to the final rule have been filed in federal court and with DOT, including a challenge by railroad industry groups. Currently, all of the rail cars in our fleet are DOT - 117 rail cars that meet the technical requirements of the final DOT rule. In addition, the adoption of additional federal, state or local laws or regulations, including any new voluntary measures by the rail industry regarding rail car design or crude oil and liquid hydrocarbon rail transport activities, or efforts by local communities to restrict or limit rail traffic involving crude oil, could similarly affect our business by increasing compliance costs and decreasing demand for our services, which could adversely affect our financial position and cash flows. Moreover, any disruptions in the operations of railroads, including those due to shortages of rail cars, locomotives or labor, weather - related problems, flooding, drought, derailments, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts or bottlenecks, or other force majeure events could adversely impact our customers' ability to move their product and, as a result, could affect our business.. 27. Table of Contents. Evolving environmental laws and regulations on crude oil stabilization could have an effect on our financial performance.. In December 2014, the North Dakota Industrial Commission, or NDIC, issued Order No. 25417, which requires producers in a Bakken, Bakken/Three Forks, Three Forks or Sanish pool, which the order refers to as the Bakken Petroleum System, effective April 1, 2015, to heat their produced fluids to a specified minimum temperature prior to separation. If producers cannot meet minimum heat treatment conditions, they must demonstrate that their crude oil has a vapor pressure no greater than 13.7 psi. The order also requires operators of transload rail facilities to notify the NDIC of any crude oil received from the Bakken Petroleum System that violates federal crude oil safety standards.. Given the volume of tight crude oil like Bakken crude that was then being shipped by rail, the U.S. Department of Energy, or DOE, tasked Sandia National Laboratories to study the properties of tight crude oils as they relate to potential combustion events in the rail transport environment. The Sandia Report, released in March 2015, concluded that there is a gap in relevant data and a lack of understanding of how crude oil properties influence the propensity for accidental ignition, combustion, or explosion. In its key findings, the Sandia Report noted that while it is likely that crude oil properties could be used to predict combustibility, the study released no objective data linking any known crude oil properties with the likelihood or severity of rail transport-related combustion events. In April 2015 the DOE announced an additional two - year study into how crude oil properties affect its combustibility in rail accidents. The second Sandia study is currently in Task 2, which is designed to determine what methods of sampling and analysis are suitable for characterizing the physical and chemical properties of crude oils with differing chemical and physical compositions.. On January 18, 2017, PHMSA published an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (\"ANPRM\") related to crude oil shipping. The ANPRM seeks comment on a range of questions associated with establishing a vapor pressure threshold for crude oil in transportation in order to evaluate the potential safety benefits of utilizing vapor pressure thresholds in the hazardous materials classification process. The ANPRM discusses potential restrictions on vapor pressure, briefly discusses the North Dakota conditioning regulations, and notes that prior PHMSA rulemakings deferred consideration of vapor pressure restrictions to a later date. The ANPRM could potentially be used as the basis for a future final rule on vapor pressure for crude by rail transportation, but to date PHMSA has not proposed any such final rule.. Our commercial agreements with Hess contain product quality specification limits. As noted above, the final rule requires offerors to develop and carry out sampling and testing programs for all unrefined petroleum-based products, including crude oil, and to certify that hazardous materials subject to the program are packaged in accordance with the test results, but does not require oil companies to process their products to make them less volatile before shipment. However, if new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the quality specification of crude oil or to crude oil transportation are adopted in areas where Hess and our other customers operate, Hess and our other customers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements and experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of production or development activities, which could reduce demand for our midstream services.. Evolving environmental laws and regulations on climate change could adversely affect our financial performance.. Potential additional regulations regarding climate change could affect our operations. Currently, various federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies are considering measures to address greenhouse gas emissions. These measures include EPA programs that require the crude oil and natural gas industry to report and to control greenhouse gas emissions, and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs, each of which could impose reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. For example, in October 2015 the EPA finalized a rule to expand the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule to include emissions from gathering and boosting systems and blowdowns of natural gas transmission pipelines. These actions could result in increased (1) costs to operate and maintain our facilities, (2) capital expenditures to install new emission controls on our facilities and (3) costs to administer and manage any potential greenhouse gas emissions regulations or carbon trading or tax programs. These developments also could have an indirect adverse effect on our business if Hess's Bakken operations are adversely affected due to increased regulation of Hess's facilities or reduced demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs, and a direct adverse effect on our business from increased regulation of our facilities.. 28. Table of Contents. Further, in May 2016 the EPA finalized new regulations that for the first-time established methane emission standards for new and modified oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing and transmission facilities. In April 2017, the EPA announced that it would review the 2016 methane rule and would initiate reconsideration proceedings to potentially revise or rescind portions of the rule. Effective June 2, 2017, the EPA issued a 90-day stay of certain requirements under the 2016 methane rule, but this stay was vacated by a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (\"D.C. Circuit\") on July 3, 2017, and on August 10, 2017, the D.C. Circuit rejected petitions for an en banc review of such ruling. In the interim, on July 16, 2017, the EPA issued a proposed rule that would stay the 2016 methane rule for two years. That proposed rule is not yet final and may be subject to legal challenges. In November 2016, the Bureau of Land Management (\"BLM\") also finalized a rule to address methane emissions from crude oil and natural gas sources subject to BLM jurisdiction by limiting venting, flaring and leaking. In December 2017, the BLM published a final rule to temporarily suspend or delay certain requirements contained in the November 2016 rule until January 2019, including those requirements relating to venting, flaring and leakage from oil and gas production activities. In February 2018, the federal District Court of Northern California issued a preliminary injunction preventing the BLM from suspending the implementation of certain parts of its November 2016 rule. Congress continues to periodically consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions, which may include a delay in the implementation of greenhouse gas regulations by EPA or a limitation on EPA's authority to regulate greenhouse gases, although the ultimate adoption and form of any federal legislation cannot presently be predicted.. In addition to potential domestic regulation of greenhouse gases, there continues to be international interest in a global framework for greenhouse gas reductions. While significant uncertainty exists as to future regulation of methane or other greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act or other local, regional, or international regulatory regimes, the impact of future regulatory and legislative developments, if adopted or enacted, including any cap - and - trade program, is likely to result in increased compliance costs, increased utility costs, additional operating restrictions on our business and an increase in the cost of products generally. Although such costs may impact our business directly or indirectly by impacting Hess's facilities or operations, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the present uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented.. Finally, many scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gas emissions in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects. To the extent any such effects were to occur, any associated market changes could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.. We or Hess may be unable to obtain or renew permits or approvals necessary for our respective operations, which could inhibit our ability to do business and adversely affect our financial performance.. Our facilities and those of Hess that provide volumes to our facilities operate under a number of federal, state and local permits, licenses and approvals with terms and conditions containing a significant number of prescriptive limits and performance standards in order to operate. All of these permits, licenses, approval limits and standards require a significant amount of monitoring, record keeping and reporting in order to demonstrate compliance with the underlying permit, license, approval limit or standard. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have an adverse impact on Hess's ability to produce crude oil and natural gas or on our ability to handle volumes of crude oil, natural gas or NGLs at our facilities. Additionally, noncompliance or incomplete documentation of our compliance status with respect to our existing permits or approvals may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive relief. Our ability to obtain or renew any material permit or approval, or comply with the terms of our existing permits or approvals, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 29. Table of Contents. Evolving environmental laws and regulations on hydraulic fracturing could have an effect on our financial performance.. We do not conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, but Hess's and our other customers' crude oil and natural gas production operations often require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of crude oil and/or natural gas from dense subsurface rock formations. The process is typically regulated by state agencies. However, federal agencies have also asserted regulatory authority over the process. Beginning in August 2012, the EPA adopted a series of rules that subject crude oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission and storage operations to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants programs. In addition, Congress has in the past and may in the future consider legislation that gives the EPA direct authority to regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act. Many states have already adopted laws and/or regulations that require disclosure of the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, and are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on crude oil and/or natural gas drilling activities. We do not believe current or future regulations will have a direct effect on our operations, but if new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to such drilling activities or to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where Hess and our other customers operate, Hess and our other customers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements and experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of production or development activities, which could reduce demand for our midstream services.. Certain plant or animal species could be designated as endangered or threatened, which could limit our ability to expand some of our existing operations or limit our customers' ability to develop new crude oil and natural gas wells.. The federal Endangered Species Act, or ESA, restricts activities that may affect endangered or threatened species or their habitats. Many states have analogous laws designed to protect endangered or threatened species. The designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species under such laws may affect our and our customers' operations.. Terrorist or cyber-attacks and threats, or escalation of military activity in response to these attacks, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Terrorist attacks and threats, cyber - attacks, escalation of military activity or acts of war may have significant effects on general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Strategic targets, such as energy - related assets and transportation assets, may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. We do not maintain specialized insurance for possible liability or loss resulting from a terrorist attack or cyber - attack on our assets that may shut down all or part of our business. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Computers and telecommunication systems have become an integral part of our business. We use these systems to analyze and store financial and operating data and to communicate within our company and with outside business partners. Cyber - attacks could compromise our computer and telecommunications systems and result in disruptions to our business operations, the loss or corruption of our data and proprietary information and communications interruptions. In addition, computers control oil and gas distribution systems globally and are necessary to deliver our production to market. A cyber - attack impacting these distribution systems, or the networks and infrastructure on which they rely, could damage critical production, distribution and/or storage assets, delay or prevent delivery to markets and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. Our systems and procedures for protecting against such attacks and mitigating such risks may prove to be insufficient and such attacks could have an adverse impact on our business and operations.. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results timely and accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units.. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with GAAP, but our internal accounting controls may not currently meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404. For example, Section 404 will require us, among other things, to annually review and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.. Although we are required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis, we will not be required to make our first annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018.. 30. Table of Contents. Any failure to develop, implement or maintain effective internal controls or to improve our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm's, conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Ineffective internal controls will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common units.. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain disclosure requirements that apply to other public companies.. In April 2012, former President Obama signed the JOBS Act into law. For as long as we remain an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, although we will lose that status sooner if we have more than $1.07 billion of revenues in a fiscal year, have more than $700 million in market value of our limited partner interests held by non - affiliates, or issue more than $1.0 billion of non - convertible debt over a three - year period.. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected to \"opt out\" of this exemption and, therefore, will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. To the extent that we rely on any of the exemptions available to emerging growth companies, our unitholders will receive less information about our executive compensation and internal control over financial reporting than issuers that are not emerging growth companies. If some investors find our common units to be less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common units and our trading price may be more volatile.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. Our general partner and its affiliates, including our Sponsors (Hess and GIP), have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to our detriment and that of our unitholders. Additionally, we have no control over the business decisions and operations of our Sponsors, and none of our Sponsors is under any obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us.. Our Sponsors directly own an aggregate 67.5% limited partner interest in us and own and control our general partner and its 2% general partner interest in us. Hess Infrastructure Partners also retained a significant ownership interest in our joint interest assets. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is in the best interests of our partnership and our unitholders, our directors and officers also have a duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is in the best interests of its owner, Hess Infrastructure Partners, which is owned by our Sponsors. Conflicts of interest may arise between our Sponsors and their respective affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including our Sponsors, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. •  neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires our Sponsors to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, which could involve decisions by Hess to increase or decrease production, shut down or reconfigure its assets, pursue and grow particular markets or undertake acquisition opportunities for itself. Hess's directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Hess;. •  our Sponsors and Hess Infrastructure Partners may be constrained by the terms of their respective debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests;. •  our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limiting our general partner's liabilities and restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty;. •  except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval;. •  our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders;. 31. Table of Contents. •  our general partner determines the amount and timing of many of our cash expenditures and whether a cash expenditure is classified as an expansion capital expenditure, which would not reduce operating surplus, or a maintenance capital expenditure, which would reduce our operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of available cash from operating surplus that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner, the amount of adjusted operating surplus generated in any given period and the ability of the subordinated units to convert into common units;. •  our general partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us;. •  our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate expiration of the subordination period;. •  our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $65.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non - working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights;. •  our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;. •  our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations;. •  our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units;. •  our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including our commercial agreements with Hess;. •  our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and. •  our general partner, or any transferee holding incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our board of directors, which we refer to as our conflicts committee, or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including our Sponsors, Hess Infrastructure Partners, our executive officers and directors. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we expect to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance our growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we will distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights, and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such additional units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce the amount of cash that we have available to distribute to our unitholders.. 32. Table of Contents. Affiliates of our general partner, including our Sponsors, may compete with us, and neither our general partner nor its affiliates have any obligation to present business opportunities to us.. Neither our partnership agreement nor our omnibus agreement prohibit our Sponsors or any other affiliates of our general partner from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including our Sponsors and our executive officers and directors. Any such entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Consequently, our Sponsors and other affiliates of our general partner, including Hess Infrastructure Partners, may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, competition from our Sponsors and other affiliates of our general partner could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties.. Delaware law provides that Delaware limited partnerships may, in their partnership agreements, expand, restrict or eliminate the fiduciary duties otherwise owed by the general partner to limited partners and the partnership, provided that partnership agreements may not eliminate the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing. As permitted by Delaware law, our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing. This `provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement:. •  provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the determination or the decision to take or decline to take such action was in the best interests of our partnership, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. •  provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith;. •  provides that our general partner and our officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or our officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. •  provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is approved in accordance with, or otherwise meets the standards set forth in, our partnership agreement.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, our partnership agreement provides that any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith, and that our conflicts committee and board of directors are entitled to a presumption that they acted in good faith. In any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. 33. Table of Contents. If you are not an eligible holder, your common units may be subject to redemption.. We have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common and subordinated units. Eligible holders are limited partners whose (a) federal income tax status is not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the rates that can be charged by us on assets that are subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, or an analogous regulatory body and (b) nationality, citizenship or other related status would not create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest, in each case as determined by our general partner with the advice of counsel. If you are not an eligible holder, in certain circumstances as set forth in our partnership agreement, your units may be redeemed by us. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner.. Cost reimbursements, which are determined in our general partner's sole discretion, and fees due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided may be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders.. Under our partnership agreement, we are required to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all costs and expenses that they incur on our behalf for managing and controlling our business and operations. Except to the extent specified under our omnibus agreement, our general partner determines the amount of these expenses. Under the terms of our omnibus agreement, we are required to reimburse Hess for the provision of certain operational and administrative support services to us. Our general partner and its affiliates also may provide us other services for which we will be charged fees as determined by our general partner. The costs and expenses for which we are required to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates are not subject to any caps or other limits. Payments to our general partner and its affiliates may be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Unitholders have very limited voting rights and, even if they are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. For example, unlike holders of stock in a public corporation, unitholders will not have \"say - on - pay\" advisory voting rights. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or any of the members of our board of directors and will have no right to elect our general partner or any of the members of our board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. Our board of directors is chosen by Hess Infrastructure Partners, which is controlled by our Sponsors. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. The unitholders are not able to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. In addition, our general partner may only be removed for cause. \"Cause\" is narrowly defined under our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non - appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our general partner because of the unitholders' dissatisfaction with our general partner's performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period. Even if cause for removal exists, the vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common units and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. Excluding any common units purchased by our directors and executive officers and the directors and executive officers of Hess under our directed unit program and any common units purchased by John B. Hess, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and certain Hess family entities, our general partner and its affiliates currently collectively own 68.8% of our total outstanding common units and subordinated units on an aggregate basis.. Furthermore, unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of our board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. 34. Table of Contents. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third - party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of Hess Infrastructure Partners to transfer all of the partnership interests in our general partner, or all of the membership interests in Hess Midstream Partners GP LLC, the general partner of our general partner, to a third party. The new owner of our general partner or Hess Midstream Partners GP LLC would then be in a position to replace our board of directors and officers with its own choices. As a result, we could lose the provision of certain operational support and administrative services by Hess and its affiliates, our right of first offer to acquire our right of first offer assets from Hess Infrastructure Partners and our license to use certain Hess trademarks.. Our general partner may elect to convert the Partnership to a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes without unitholder consent.. Under our partnership agreement, if, in connection with the enactment of U.S. federal income tax legislation or a change in the official interpretation of existing U.S. federal income tax legislation by a governmental authority, our general partner determines that (i) the Partnership should no longer be characterized as a partnership for U.S. federal or applicable state and local income tax purposes or (ii) common units held by unitholders other than the general partner and its affiliates should be converted into or exchanged for interests in a newly formed entity taxed as a corporation or an entity taxable at the entity level for U.S. federal or applicable state and local income tax purposes whose sole asset is interests in the Partnership (\"parent corporation\"), then our general partner may, without unitholder approval, cause the Partnership to be treated as an entity taxable as a corporation or subject to entity - level taxation for U.S. federal or applicable state and local income tax purposes, whether by election of the Partnership or conversion of the Partnership or by any other means or methods, or cause the common units held by unitholders other than the general partner and its affiliates to be converted into or exchanged for interests in the parent corporation. Any such event may be taxable or nontaxable to our unitholders, depending on the form of the transaction. The tax liability, if any, of a unitholder as a result of such an event may vary depending on the unitholder's particular situation and may vary from the tax liability of our general partner and each of our Sponsors. In addition, if our general partner causes an interest in the Partnership to be held by a parent corporation, our Sponsors may choose to retain their partnership interests in us rather than convert their partnership interests into parent corporation shares.. We may issue an unlimited number of additional partnership interests without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests.. Under our partnership agreement, we may, at any time, issue an unlimited number of general partner interests or limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such general partner interests or limited partner interests. Further, there are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue equity securities that rank equal or senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights.. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. •  our unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. •  the amount of cash we have available to distribute on each unit may decrease;. •  because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase;. •  the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. •  the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. •  the market price of our common units may decline.. The issuance by us of additional general partner interests may have the following effects, among others, if such general partner interests are issued to a person who is not an affiliate of Hess Infrastructure Partners:. •  management of our business may no longer reside solely with our current general partner; and. •  affiliates of the newly admitted general partner may compete with us, and neither that general partner nor such affiliates will have any obligation to present business opportunities to us.. Our Sponsors may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. As of December 31, 2017, our Sponsors collectively held 10,282,654 common units and 27,279,654 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period and may convert earlier under certain circumstances. Additionally, we have agreed to provide our Sponsors with certain registration rights under applicable securities laws. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop.. 35. Table of Contents. Our general partner's discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus the cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, our partnership agreement permits the general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. Any cash reserves established by our general partner will affect the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our then - outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then - current market price. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. As of December 31, 2017, our general partner and its affiliates owned approximately 37.7% of our common units (excluding any common units purchased by our directors and executive officers and the directors and executive officers of Hess under our directed unit program and any common units purchased by John B. Hess, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and certain Hess family entities). At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units by us (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units), our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 68.8% of our outstanding common units (excluding any common units purchased by our directors and executive officers and the directors and executive officers of Hess under our directed unit program and any common units purchased by John B. Hess, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and certain Hess family entities) and therefore would not be able to exercise the call right at that time.. Unitholders may have to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Section 17 - 607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the transferee at the time of the transfer and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non - recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. Our general partner, or any transferee holding incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of our conflicts committee or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units.. Our general partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received distributions on its incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which it is entitled (48%, in addition to distributions paid on its 2% general partner interest) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution.. 36. Table of Contents. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and to maintain its 2% general partner interest. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will be equal to that number of common units that would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in such two quarters. Our general partner will also be entitled to maintain its general partner's interest in us at the level that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Additionally, our general partner has the right to transfer all or any portion of our incentive distribution rights at any time, and to the extent that one or more of the transferees collectively own a majority of the incentive distribution rights, such transferees shall have the same rights as the general partner relative to resetting target distributions if our general partner concurs that the tests for resetting target distributions have been fulfilled.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, to incur debt to capture growth opportunities or for other purposes, or to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. If interest rates rise, the interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield - oriented securities for investment decision - making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, to incur debt to expand or for other purposes, or to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Our common units are listed on the NYSE. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Additionally, any future issuance of additional common units or other securities, including to affiliates, will not be subject to the NYSE's shareholder approval rules that apply to a corporation. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. Tax Risks. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as us not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if we become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after - tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we will be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a \"qualifying income\" requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. 37. Table of Contents. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state, local or foreign income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law or interpretation on us. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. Specifically, we currently own assets and conduct business in Minnesota and North Dakota, neither of which currently imposes an income, franchise tax or other similar form of taxation on partnerships. In addition, we transport crude oil by rail car through a number of states, but do not anticipate being subjected to material entity-level income, franchise or similar tax in those states under current law. In the future, we may expand our operations. Imposition of state, local or foreign taxes on us in these jurisdictions or other jurisdictions that we may expand to could substantially reduce our cash available for distribution.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly-traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. In addition, on January 24, 2017, final regulations regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), were published in the Federal Register. We do not believe these final regulations affect our ability to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any similar or future changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Unitholders are urged to consult with a tax advisor with respect to the status of regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on their investment in our common units.. If the IRS were to contest the federal income tax positions we take, it may adversely impact the market for our common units, and the costs of any such contest would reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Moreover, the costs of any contest between us and the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders may be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us. Under our limited partnership agreement, our general partner is permitted to make elections under the new rules to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if we are eligible, issue a revised Schedule K-1 to each current and former unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted return. Although our general partner may elect to have our unitholders and former unitholders take such audit adjustment into account and pay any resulting taxes (including applicable penalties and interest) in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances. As a result, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties, and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced. These rules are not applicable for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. Even if our unitholders do not receive any cash distributions from us, they will be required to pay taxes on their share of our taxable income.. Our unitholders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax due from them with respect to that income.. 38. Table of Contents. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units a unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if it sells such units at a price greater than its tax basis in those units, even if the price received is less than its original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells common units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.. A substantial portion of the amount realized from the sale of common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to unitholders due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. Thus, our unitholders may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of their units if the amount realized on a sale of their units is less than their adjusted basis in the units. Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year. In the taxable period in which our unitholders sell their units, they may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain to them prior to the sale and from recapture items that generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units.. Tax - exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax - exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours that is engaged in one or more unrelated trades or businesses) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax - exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction). As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. Non - U.S. unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning our units.. Non - U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business (\"effectively connected income\"). Income allocated to our unitholders and any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business. As a result, distributions to a non - U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate and a non - U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a unit will also be subject to a U.S. federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act created a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a non - U.S. unitholder's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has temporarily suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interests in publicly traded partnerships pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges. It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued. Non - U.S. unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted certain methods for allocating depreciation and amortization deductions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to the use of these methods could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns.. 39. Table of Contents. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month (the \"Allocation Date\"), instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Nevertheless, we allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions, gain, or loss realized on a sale or other disposition of our assets and, in the discretion of the general partner, any other extraordinary item of income, gain, loss or deduction based upon ownership on the Allocation Date. The U.S. Department of the Treasury has adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention, but such regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of units) may be considered to have disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequence of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered to have disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Therefore, unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to consult a tax advisor to determine whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may, from time to time, consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and income tax return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Currently, we own assets and conduct business in Minnesota and North Dakota, each of which currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities and requires us to report certain tax information for unitholders. In addition, we transport crude oil by rail car through a number of states, which may also seek to impose an income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities on income earned in those states and may require us to report certain tax information for unitholders.. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is each unitholder's responsibility to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements."
