[1] "Item 1A.    RISK FACTORS. In this section of the Form 10-K, we describe the risks we believe are most important for you to think about when you consider investing in, selling, or owning our stock or debt.  This information should be assessed along with the other information we provide you in this Form 10-K.  Like most companies, our business involves risks.  The risks described below are not the only risks we face, but these are the ones we currently think have the potential to significantly affect stakeholders in our Company if they were to develop adversely (due to size, volatility, or both).  We exclude risks that we believe are inherent in all businesses broadly as a function of simply being \"in business.\"  Additional risks not currently known or considered immaterial by us at this time and thus not listed below could also result in adverse effects on our business.  We have assigned the risks into categories to help you understand from where they emanate (e.g. the overall Company or a specific segment).. Risk Related to Hillenbrand. 1.A key component of our growth strategy is making significant acquisitions, some of which may be outside the industries in which we currently operate.  We may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from these acquisitions.  If an acquisition were to perform unfavorably, it could have an adverse impact on our value.. All acquisitions involve inherent uncertainties, which may include, among other things, our ability to:. • successfully identify the most suitable targets for acquisition;. • negotiate reasonable terms;. • properly perform due diligence and determine all the significant risks associated with a particular acquisition;. • successfully transition the acquired company into our business and achieve the desired performance;. • avoid diversion of Company management's attention from other important business activities; and. • where applicable, implement restructuring activities without an adverse impact to business operations.. We may acquire businesses with unknown liabilities, contingent liabilities, internal control deficiencies, or other risks.  We have plans and procedures to review potential acquisition candidates for a variety of due diligence matters, including compliance with applicable regulations and laws prior to acquisition.  Despite these efforts, realization of any of these liabilities. 11. Table of Contents. or deficiencies may increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position, or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations.. We generally seek indemnification from sellers covering these matters; however, the liability of the sellers is often limited, and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities.  We cannot be assured that these indemnification provisions will fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position.. We may not achieve the intended benefits of our acquisitions.  Under such circumstances, management could be required to spend significant amounts of time and resources in the transition of the acquired business, and we may not fully realize benefits anticipated from application of the HOM.  We may also decide to sell previously acquired businesses, or portions thereof, that no longer meet our strategic objectives, potentially resulting in a loss, accounting charge, or other negative impact.  As a result of these factors, our business, cash flows, and results of operations could be materially impacted.. If we acquire a company that operates in an industry that is different from the ones in which we currently operate, our lack of experience with that company's industry could have a material adverse impact on our ability to manage that business and realize the benefits of that acquisition.. 2.Global market and economic conditions, including those related to the financial markets, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and liquidity.. Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the U.S.  Continuing uncertainties in the eurozone, including future implications from the voluntary exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\") and uncertainties in China may depress demand in these areas and create additional risk to our financial results.. Instability in the global economy and financial markets can adversely affect our business in several ways, including limiting our customers' ability to obtain sufficient credit or pay for our products within the terms of sale.  Competition could further intensify among the manufacturers and distributors with whom we compete for volume and market share, resulting in lower net revenue due to steeper discounts and product mix-down.  In particular, if certain key or sole suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies.. Substantial losses in the equity markets could have an adverse effect on the assets of the Company's pension plans.  Volatility of interest rates and negative equity returns could require greater contributions to the defined benefit plans in the future.. 3.International economic, political, legal, and business factors could negatively affect our operating results, cash flows, financial condition, and growth.. We derived approximately 44%, 44%, and 43% of our revenue from our operations outside the U.S. for the years ended September 30, 2017, 2016, and 2015.  This revenue is primarily generated in Europe, the Middle East, Asia, South America, and Canada.  In addition, we have manufacturing operations, suppliers, and employees located outside the U.S.  Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the U.S., we expect to continue to increase our sales and presence outside the U.S., including in emerging markets.. Our international business is subject to risks that are often encountered in non-U.S. operations, including:. • interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers, including conditions where recovery from natural disasters may be delayed due to country-specific infrastructure and resources;. • differences in terms of sale, including payment terms;. • local product preferences and product requirements;. • changes in a country's or region's political or economic condition, including with respect to safety and health issues;. • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;. • unexpected changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including negative changes in tax laws;. • limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings and cash;. • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;. • differing labor regulations;. • difficulties in enforcing contract and property rights under local law;. 12. Table of Contents. • difficulties in implementing restructuring actions on a timely or comprehensive basis; and. • differing protection of intellectual property.. Such risks may be more likely or pronounced in emerging markets, where our operations may be subject to greater uncertainty due to increased volatility associated with the developing nature of their economic, legal, and governmental systems.. If we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with expanding our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. 4. Changes in the United States political environment could negatively impact our business.. The 2016 presidential and congressional elections in the United States have resulted in significant uncertainty with respect to, and could result in changes in, legislation, regulation and government policy.  While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level could significantly impact our business and the industries in which we compete.  Specific legislative and regulatory proposals discussed during and after the election that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, changes to existing trade agreements, import and export regulations, tariffs and customs duties, income tax regulations and the federal tax code, public company reporting requirements, environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement.  To the extent changes in the political environment have a negative impact on the Company or our markets, it may materially and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition in the periods to come.. 5.We rely upon our employees, agents, and business partners to comply with laws in many different countries and jurisdictions.  We establish policies and provide training to assist them in understanding our policies and the regulations most applicable to our business; however, our reputation, ability to do business, and financial results may be impaired by improper conduct by these individuals.. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti-kickback and false claims, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering, and data privacy.  In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree.  Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions; could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, and related shareholder lawsuits; could cause us to incur significant legal fees; and could damage our reputation.. 6.We are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues.  In addition, since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations.  The Company's predominant exposures are in European, Canadian, Swiss, Mexican, and Asian currencies, including the Chinese Renminbi.  In preparing financial statements for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated using weighted-average exchange rates.  With respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the Company's earnings could be negatively impacted.  Although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective.. 7.Increased prices for, or unavailability of, raw materials used in our products could adversely affect profitability.. Our profitability is affected by the prices of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products.  These prices fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, fuel-related delivery costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates, and, in some cases, government regulation.  Significant increases in the prices of raw materials that cannot be recovered through increases in the price of our products could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. 13. Table of Contents. We cannot guarantee that the prices we are paying for raw materials today will continue in the future or that the marketplace will continue to support current prices for our products or that such prices can be adjusted to fully or partially offset raw material price increases in the future.  Any increases in prices resulting from a tightening supply of these or other commodities could adversely affect our profitability.  We do not engage in hedging transactions for raw material purchases, but we do enter into some fixed-price supply contracts.. Our dependency upon regular deliveries of supplies from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made.  Several of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products currently are procured from a single source.  If any of these sole-source suppliers were unable to deliver these materials for an extended period of time as a result of financial difficulties, catastrophic events affecting their facilities, or other factors, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these sole-source suppliers, our business could be adversely affected.  We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs.  Extended unavailability of a necessary raw material could cause us to cease manufacturing one or more products for a period of time.. 8.The Company could face labor disruptions that would interfere with operations.. As of September 30, 2017, approximately 42% of Hillenbrand's employees work under collective bargaining agreements.  Although we have not experienced any significant work stoppages in the past 20 years as a result of labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in the future.  Inability to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at one or more of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. 9.  We are involved from time to time in claims, lawsuits, and governmental proceedings relating to our operations, including environmental, antitrust, patent infringement, business practices, commercial transactions, and other matters.  The ultimate outcome of these claims, lawsuits, and governmental proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty but could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We are also subject to other potential claims, including product and general liability, workers compensation, auto liability, and employment-related matters. While we maintain insurance for certain of these exposures, the policies in place are high-deductible policies.  For a more detailed discussion of claims, see Note 11 to our financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K.. 10.  We have a significant amount of debt, which could adversely affect the Company and limit our ability to respond to changes in our business or make future desirable acquisitions.. As of September 30, 2017, our outstanding debt was $465.7.  This level of debt and additional debt we may incur in the future could have important consequences to our businesses.  For example:. • We may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions, because we have lower borrowing capacity.. • We will be required to dedicate a larger portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including business development efforts and acquisitions.. • We will continue to be exposed to the risk of increased interest rates, because a portion of our borrowings is at variable rates of interest.. • We may be more limited in our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which they operate, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness.. • We may be more vulnerable to credit rating downgrades which could have an impact on our ability to secure future financing at attractive interest rates.. 11. The performance of the Company may suffer from business disruptions associated with information technology, cyber-attacks, or catastrophic losses affecting infrastructure.. The Company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and operate its businesses and record and process transactions.  Computer systems are important to production planning, customer service, and order management, as well as other critical processes.. 14. Table of Contents. Despite efforts to prevent such situations and the existence of established risk management practices that partially mitigate these risks, the Company's systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, system failures, or computer viruses.  Computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as email, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various geographies in which the Company operates.. In addition, security threats and sophisticated computer crime pose a potential risk to the security of the Company's information technology systems, networks, and services, as well as the confidentiality and integrity of the Company's data.  If the Company suffers a loss or disclosure of business or stakeholder information due to security breaches, and if business continuity plans do not effectively address these issues on a timely basis, the Company may suffer interruption in its ability to manage operations, as well as reputational, competitive, or business harm, which may adversely impact the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 12. The effective tax rate of the Company may be negatively impacted by economic downturns as well as future changes to tax laws in global jurisdictions in which we operate.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various other global jurisdictions.  Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction and the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities.  We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. Our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, totaled approximately $112.7 and $153.3 at September 30, 2017 and 2016. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.  If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, if there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates, or if there is a change to the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, which could result in a material increase in our effective tax rate.. In addition, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could have a material impact on our effective tax rate. Certain changes to U.S. tax laws, including limitations on the ability to defer U.S. taxation on earnings outside of the United States until those earnings are repatriated to the United States, could affect the tax treatment of our foreign earnings.  Additionally, many countries in the European Union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws. Certain proposals could include recommendations that could increase our tax obligations in many countries where we do business.  Any changes in the taxation of our activities in such jurisdictions may result in a material increase in our effective tax rate.. 13. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and facets of Indiana law may prevent or delay an acquisition of the Company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws, as well as Indiana law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in control if our Board of Directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of our shareholders.  While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our Company to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable our Board of Directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that the Board of Directors believes is not in the best interests of shareholders, but which some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests.. These provisions include, among others:. • the division of our Board of Directors into three classes with staggered terms;. • the inability of our shareholders to act by less than unanimous written consent;. • rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings;. • the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and. • limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors.. Indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between the Company and any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock.. We believe these provisions are important for a public company and protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise potentially unfair takeover tactics by encouraging potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing. 15. Table of Contents. our Board of Directors with appropriate time to assess any acquisition proposal.  These provisions are not intended to make our Company immune from takeovers; however, they may apply if the Board of Directors determines that a takeover offer is not in the best interests of our shareholders, even if some shareholders believe the offer to be beneficial.. Risk Related to the Process Equipment Group. 1.A significant portion of our investments in the Process Equipment Group includes goodwill and intangible assets that are subject to periodic impairment evaluations.  An impairment loss on these assets could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We acquired intangible assets with the acquisitions of Coperion, K-Tron (including TerraSource Global), Rotex, Abel, and Red Valve, portions of which were identified as either goodwill or indefinite-lived assets.  We periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired.  Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes, or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures, and market capitalization declines may impair these assets.  Any charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect our results of operations in the periods recognized.. 2.The Process Equipment Group operates in cyclical industries.. As an industrial capital goods supplier, the Process Equipment Group serves industries that are cyclical.  During periods of economic expansion, when capital spending normally increases, the Process Equipment Group generally benefits from greater demand for its products.  During periods of economic contraction, when capital spending normally decreases, the Process Equipment Group generally is adversely affected by declining demand for new equipment orders, and it may be subject to increases in uncollectible receivables from customers who become insolvent.  There can be no assurance that economic expansion or increased demand will be sustainable, and our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. 3.The Process Equipment Group derives significant revenues from the plastics industry.  Any decrease in demand for plastics or equipment used in the plastics industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Process Equipment Group sells extruders and compounding systems to the plastics industry.  Sales volume is tied to the need for equipment used to produce plastics products, which may be significantly influenced by the demand for plastics, the capital investment needs of companies in the plastics industry, and changes in technological advances.  As a result, any downturn in or disruption to the plastics industry or decrease in the demand for plastics could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 4.The Process Equipment Group derives revenues from the energy industry.  Any decrease in demand for electricity, oil, natural gas, coal, and mining equipment or an increase in regulation of the energy industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. A portion of the Process Equipment Group's sales are affected by the consumption of oil, natural gas, and coal.  The demand for oil, natural gas, coal, and mining equipment is dependent upon, among other things, the availability and cost of alternative sources of energy, such as solar, wind, or nuclear power.  Additionally, the cost of compliance with federal, state, and local laws and regulations on the energy industry may impact the demand for our products.  As a result, any downturn in or disruption to the oil, natural gas, or coal and mining industries or decrease in the demand for electricity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Risk Related to Batesville. 1.Continued fluctuations in mortality rates and increased cremations may adversely affect the sales volume of our burial caskets.. The life expectancy of U.S. citizens has increased steadily since the 1950s and is expected to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.  However, we do anticipate a modest increase in deaths every year driven by the aging U.S. population.. Cremations as a percentage of total U.S. deaths have increased steadily since the 1960s and are expected to continue to increase for the foreseeable future.  The increase in the number of cremations in the U.S. has resulted in a contraction in the demand for. 16. Table of Contents. burial caskets.  This has been a contributing factor to lower burial casket sales volumes for Batesville in recent years.  We expect these trends will continue in the foreseeable future and will likely continue to negatively impact burial casket volumes.. Finally, the number of deaths can vary over short periods of time and among different geographical areas due to a variety of factors, including the timing and severity of seasonal outbreaks of illnesses such as pneumonia and influenza.  Such variations could cause the sale of burial caskets to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. 2.Batesville's business is dependent on several major contracts with large national funeral providers. The relationships with these customers pose several risks.. Batesville has contracts with a number of national funeral home customers that constitute a sizeable portion of its overall sales volume.  Also, while contracts with national funeral service providers give Batesville important access to purchasers of death care products, they may obligate Batesville to sell products at contracted prices for extended periods of time, therefore limiting Batesville's ability, in the short term, to raise prices in response to significant increases in raw material prices or other factors.  Any decision by national funeral home customers to discontinue or limit purchases from Batesville could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. 3.Batesville is facing competition from a number of non-traditional sources and from caskets manufactured abroad and imported into North America.. Non-traditional death care product providers, such as large discount retail stores, casket stores, and internet casket retailers could present more of a competitive threat to Batesville and its sales channel than is currently anticipated.  In addition, a few foreign manufacturers, mostly from China, import caskets into the U.S. and Canada.  Sales from these non-traditional and foreign providers currently represent less than 10% of total casket sales in North America, but this percentage could grow.  It is not possible to quantify the financial impact that these competitors will have on Batesville in the future.  These competitors and any new entrants into the funeral products business may drive pricing and other competitive actions in an industry that already has domestic production over-capacity.  Such competitive developments could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows."
