[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business involves risks. The following information about these risks should be considered carefully together with the other information contained herein. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known or deemed immaterial also might result in adverse effects on our business. Any of these risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or future results. The order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority.. 7. Table of Contents. We face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government health care reform, changes in Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental medical program reimbursements, and we cannot predict how these reforms will impact our operating results.. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress adopted and President Obama signed into law comprehensive health care reform legislation through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act (H.R. 3590) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (H.R. 4872). We cannot predict with certainty what additional healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or what the ultimate effect of federal health care reform or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. Currently, the Trump Administration and the U.S. Congress are seeking to modify, repeal or otherwise invalidate all or part of this health care reform legislation and it remains unclear what new framework may emerge as a result of such efforts. Further, regardless of the prevailing political environment in the United States, Medicare, Medicaid, managed care organizations and foreign governments are increasing pressure to both control health care utilization and to limit reimbursement. Changes in reimbursement programs or their regulations, including retroactive and prospective rate and coverage criteria changes, competitive bidding for certain products and services, and other changes intended to reduce expenditures (domestically or internationally), could adversely affect the portions of our businesses that are dependent on third-party reimbursement or direct governmental payments. Moreover, to the extent that our customers experience reimbursement pressure resulting in lower revenue for them, their demand for our products and services might decrease. The impact of the above mentioned items could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and cash flows.. Failure by us or our suppliers to comply with the FDA regulations and similar foreign regulations applicable to the products we design, manufacture, install or distribute could expose us to enforcement actions or other adverse consequences.. We design, manufacture, install and distribute medical devices that are regulated by the FDA in the U.S. and similar agencies in other countries. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in future product recalls, injunctions preventing the shipment of products or other enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Additionally, certain of our suppliers are subject to FDA regulations, and the failure of these suppliers to comply with regulations could adversely affect us as regulatory actions taken by the FDA against those manufacturers can result in product shortages, recalls or modifications.. We could be subject to substantial fines or damages and possible exclusion from participation in federal or state health care programs if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business.. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels governing the participation of durable medical equipment suppliers in federal and state health care programs. From time to time, the government seeks additional information related to our claims submissions, and in some instances government contractors perform audits of payments made to us under Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal health care programs. On occasion, these reviews identify overpayments for which we submit refunds. At other times, our own internal audits identify the need to refund payments. We believe the frequency and intensity of government audits and review processes has intensified and we expect this will continue in the future, due to increased resources allocated to these activities at both the federal and state Medicaid level, and greater sophistication in data review techniques.. If we are deemed to have violated these laws and regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines, damages, possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and possible recoupment of any overpayments related to such violations. While we believe that our practices materially comply with applicable state and federal requirements, the requirements might be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, even if inadvertent, could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We operate in a highly competitive industry that is subject to the risk of declining demand and pricing pressures, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Demand for our products and services depends in large part on overall demand in the health care market. Additionally, with the health care market's increased focus on hospital asset and resource efficiency as well as reimbursement constraints, spending for some of our products is on a long-term declining trend. Further, the competitive pressures in our industry could cause us to lose market share unless we increase our expenditures or reduce our prices, which could adversely impact our operating results. The nature of this highly competitive marketplace demands that we successfully introduce new products into the market in a cost effective manner (more fully detailed below). These factors, along with possible legislative developments and others, might result in significant shifts in market share among the industry's major participants, including us. Accordingly, if we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors in terms of both new products and diversification of our product portfolio through business acquisitions, then our market share, sales and profitability could be adversely impacted through lower volume or decreased prices.. 8. Table of Contents. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. This level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund operations, our flexibility in operating our business and our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry.. At September 30, 2017, we had $2,309.3 million of indebtedness outstanding net of certain issuance costs. As a result of this debt, we have significant demands on our cash resources. The level of debt could, among other things:. • require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements;. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which we operate;. • restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions or dispositions or to exploit business opportunities;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt;. • adversely affect our credit rating, with the result that the cost of servicing our indebtedness might increase;. • adversely affect the market price of Hill-Rom common stock;. • limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of debt; and. • cause us to fail to meet payment obligations or otherwise default under our debt, which will give our lenders the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us.. In addition, we might incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which could cause the related risks to intensify. We might need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before their respective maturities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The terms of any additional debt might give the holders rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of any new debt might also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than are currently in place. If we are unable to refinance our debt, we might default under the terms of our indebtedness, which could lead to an acceleration of the debt. We do not expect that we could repay all of our outstanding indebtedness if the repayment of such indebtedness was accelerated.. Our future financial performance will depend in part on the successful introduction of new products into the marketplace on a cost-effective basis.. Our future financial performance will depend in part on our ability to influence, anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences and needs. We can provide no assurances that our new products will achieve the same degree of success as in the past. We might not correctly anticipate or identify trends in consumer preferences or needs, or might identify them later than competitors do. In addition, difficulties in manufacturing or in obtaining regulatory approvals might delay or prohibit introduction of new products into the marketplace. Further, we might not be able to develop and produce new products at a cost that allows us to meet our goals for profitability. Warranty claims and service costs relating to our new products might be greater than anticipated, and we might be required to devote significant resources to address any quality issues associated with our new products, which could reduce the resources available for further new product development and other matters. In addition, the introduction of new products might also cause customers to defer purchases of existing products.. Failure to successfully introduce new products on a cost-effective basis, or delays in customer purchasing decisions related to the evaluation of new products, could cause us to lose market share and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Adverse developments in general domestic and worldwide economic conditions and instability and disruption of credit markets could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or liquidity.. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown and disruption of domestic and international credit markets. The credit and capital markets could experience extreme volatility and disruption which could lead to periods of recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending. These recessionary conditions could cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services. If our customers reduce investments in capital expenditures or utilize their limited capital funds to invest in products that we do not offer or that do not comprise a large percentage of our product portfolio, it could negatively impact our operating results. Moreover, even if our revenue remains constant, our profitability could decline if there is a shift to sales of. 9. Table of Contents. product mix or geographic locations with less favorable margins. If worldwide economic conditions worsen, we would expect our customers to scrutinize costs resulting from pressures on operating margin due to rising supply costs, reduced investment income and philanthropic giving, increased interest expense, reimbursement pressure, reduced elective healthcare spending and uncompensated care.. We might not be able to grow or achieve expected cost savings or profitability if we are unable to successfully acquire and integrate, or form business relationships with, other companies.. We have in the past, and expect in the future, to grow our business through mergers, acquisitions and other similar business arrangements. We might not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or business relationships, negotiate acceptable terms for such acquisitions or relationships or receive necessary financing on acceptable terms for such acquisitions or relationships. Additionally, we might become responsible for liabilities associated with businesses that we acquire to the extent they are not covered by indemnification from the sellers or by insurance. Even if we are able to consummate acquisitions, such acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings and we might not be fully successful in our integration efforts or fully realize expected benefits from the integration. Our integration efforts might also divert management and other resources from other important matters, and we could experience delays or unusual expenses in the integration process, including intangible asset impairments which could result in significant charges in our Statements of Consolidated Income. Moreover, the margins for these companies might differ from our historical gross and operating margins resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Failure to comply with regulations due to our contracts with U.S. government entities could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our U.S. business contracts with U.S. government entities and is subject to specific rules, regulations and approvals applicable to government contractors. U.S. government agencies often reserve the right to conduct audits and investigations of our business practices to assure our compliance with these requirements. Our failure to comply with these or other laws and regulations could result in contract terminations, suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. federal government, civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution. In addition, changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, unexpected U.S. developments, such as changes in the funding or structure of Department of Veterans Affairs or other government agencies to which we sell, might adversely affect sales to government entities.. The assets in our pension plans are subject to market disruptions. In addition, our pension plans are underfunded.. Our primary pension plan invests in a variety of equity and debt securities subject to market risks. In addition, our pension plans are underfunded by $61.4 million based on our projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets at September 30, 2017. Market volatility and disruption could cause declines in asset values or fluctuations in assumptions used to value our liability and expenses. If this occurs, we might need to make additional pension plan contributions and our pension expense in future years might increase.. Our business is significantly dependent on major contracts with GPOs, IDNs, and certain other distributors and purchasers.. A majority of our U.S. hospital sales and rentals are made pursuant to contracts with hospital GPOs. At any given time, we are typically at various stages of responding to bids and negotiating and renewing expiring GPO agreements. Failure to be included in certain of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, including product sales and service and rental revenue.. Participation by us in such programs often requires increased discounting or restrictions on our ability to raise prices, and failure to participate or to be selected for participation in such programs might result in a reduction of sales to the member hospitals. In addition, the industry is showing an increased focus on contracting directly with health systems or IDNs (which typically represent influential members and owners of GPOs). IDNs and health systems often make key purchasing decisions and have influence over the GPO's contract decisions, and often request additional discounts or other enhancements. Further, certain other distributors and purchasers have similar processes to the GPOs and IDNs and failure to be included in agreements with these other purchasers could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 10. Table of Contents. Increased prices for, or unavailability of, raw materials or sub-assemblies used in our products could adversely affect profitability or revenue. In particular, our results of operations could be adversely affected by high prices for metals, fuel, plastics and other petroleum-based products. We also procure several raw materials and sub-assemblies from single suppliers.. Our profitability is affected by the prices and availability of the raw materials and sub-assemblies used in the manufacture of our products. These prices might fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, fuel related delivery costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates, and government regulation. Significant increases in the prices of raw materials or sub-assemblies that cannot be recovered through increases in the prices of our products could adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that the marketplace will support higher prices or that such prices and productivity gains will fully offset any commodity price increases in the future. We generally have not engaged in hedging transactions with respect to raw material purchases, but do enter into fixed price supply contracts at times. Future decisions not to engage in hedging transactions or ineffective hedging transactions might result in increased price volatility, potentially adversely impacting our profitability.. Our dependency upon regular deliveries of supplies from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. Several of the raw materials and sub-assemblies used in the manufacture of our products currently are procured only from a single source. If any of these sole-source suppliers were unable or unwilling to deliver these materials for an extended period of time we might not be able to manufacture one or more products for a period of time, and our business could suffer. We might not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs. Difficulties in the credit markets could adversely affect our suppliers' access to capital and therefore their ability to continue to provide an adequate supply of the materials we use in our products.. The majority of our products are manufactured at a single facility or location, and the material damage or loss of, or partial or complete labor-related work stoppage at, one or more of these facilities or locations could prevent us from manufacturing some of the various products we sell.. We manufacture the majority of our products in only a single facility or location. If an event (including any weather or natural disaster-related event) occurred that resulted in material damage or loss of, or partial or complete labor-related work stoppage at, one or more of these manufacturing facilities or we lacked sufficient labor to fully operate the facility, we might be unable to transfer the manufacture of the relevant products to another facility or location in a cost-effective or timely manner, if at all. This potential inability to transfer production could occur for a number of reasons, including but not limited to a lack of necessary relevant manufacturing capability at another facility, or the regulatory requirements of the FDA or other governmental regulatory bodies. Such an event could materially negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our international sales and operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that vary by country and which could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations.. International sales account for a significant percent of our total sales in fiscal 2017. We anticipate that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales in the future. In addition, we have multiple manufacturing facilities and third-party suppliers that are located outside of the U.S. As a result, our international sales, as well as our sales in the U.S. of products produced or sourced internationally, are subject to risks and uncertainties that can vary by country, such as political instability, economic conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in tax laws, regulatory and reimbursement programs and policies, and the protection of intellectual property rights. In addition, our collections of international receivables are subject to economic pressures and the actions of some governmental authorities who have initiated various austerity measures to control healthcare and other governmental spending.. Unfavorable outcomes related to uncertain tax positions could result in significant tax liabilities.. We have recorded tax benefits related to various uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. While we believe our positions are appropriate, the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), state or foreign tax authorities could disagree with our positions, which could result in a significant tax payment.. 11. Table of Contents. We are involved on an ongoing basis in claims, lawsuits and governmental proceedings relating to our operations, as well as product liability or other liability claims that could expose us to adverse judgments or could adversely affect the sales of our products.. We are involved in the design, manufacture and sale of health care products, which face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims or if our products are alleged to have caused injury or are found to be unsuitable for their intended use. Amongst other claims, we are, from time to time, a party to claims and lawsuits alleging that our products have caused injury or death or are otherwise unsuitable. It is possible that we will receive adverse judgments in such lawsuits, and any such adverse judgments could be material. Although we carry insurance with respect to such matters, this insurance is subject to varying deductibles and self-insured retentions and might not be adequate to cover the full amount of any particular claim. In addition, any such claims could negatively impact the sales of products that are the subject of such claims or other products.. We might not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel.. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel, and as competition for such personnel is intense, there can be no assurance that we can do so in the future.. A portion of our workforce is unionized, and we could face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations.. Approximately 3% of our employees in the U.S. work under collective bargaining agreements. We are also subject to various collective bargaining arrangements or national agreements outside the U.S. covering approximately 16% of our employees. Although we have not recently experienced any significant work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in the future. Our labor contract at our primary U.S. manufacturing facility expires in January 2019. Our ability to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at one of our principal facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We might not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and might experience business disruptions and adverse tax consequences associated with restructuring, realignment and cost reduction activities.. Over the past few years we have initiated several restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives. While we expect to realize efficiencies from these actions, these activities might not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits we expect. Further, such benefits might be realized later than expected, and the ongoing costs of implementing these measures might be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful or sustainable, we might undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. Moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans might be adversely affected and we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our restructuring and realignment efforts and our cost reduction activities prove ineffective.. These actions, the resulting costs, and potential delays or potential lower than anticipated benefits might also impact our foreign tax positions and might require us to record tax reserves against certain deferred tax assets in our international business.. We are increasingly dependent on consistent functioning of our information technology and cybersecurity systems and if we are exposed to any intrusions or if we fail to maintain the integrity of our data, our business and our reputation could be materially adversely affected.. We are increasingly dependent on consistent functioning of our information technology and cybersecurity systems for our infrastructure and products. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, integration of acquisitions, and the increasing need to protect patient, customer and supplier information. In addition, third parties might attempt to hack into our products or systems and might obtain proprietary information. If we fail to maintain or protect our information and cybersecurity systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers or suppliers, have difficulty attracting new customers or suppliers, have problems that adversely impact internal controls, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers and suppliers, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, or suffer other adverse consequences. Any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption, or destruction of these systems, as well as any data breaches, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 12. Table of Contents. We might be adversely affected by new regulations relating to conflict minerals.. The SEC has adopted rules regarding disclosure for public companies whose products contain conflict minerals (commonly referred to as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold) which originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and/or adjoining countries. The implementation of these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacturing of our products. In addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. Since our supply chain is complex and multilayered, we might be unable to ascertain with sufficient certainty the origins for these minerals despite our due diligence procedures, which in turn might harm our reputation. We might also face difficulties in satisfying customers who might require that our products be certified as DRC conflict free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and/or lead to a loss of revenue. These requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we might be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at prices similar to the past, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability."
