[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered.  If any of the following risks occur, our business, operating results, cash flows, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Unfavorable economic and industry factors could adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition.. Office furniture industry sales are impacted by a variety of macroeconomic factors including service-sector employment levels, corporate profits, small business confidence, commercial construction, and office vacancy rates.  Industry factors, including corporate restructuring, technology changes, corporate relocations, health and safety concerns, including ergonomic considerations, and the globalization of companies also influence office furniture industry revenues.. Hearth products industry sales are impacted by a variety of macroeconomic factors including housing starts, overall employment levels, interest rates, consumer confidence, energy costs, disposable income, and changing demographics.  Industry factors, such as technology changes, health and safety concerns, and environmental regulation, including indoor air quality standards, also influence hearth products industry revenues.  Deterioration of economic conditions or a slowdown in the recovery in the homebuilding industry and the hearth products market could decrease demand for our hearth products and have additional adverse effects on our operating results.  Additionally, the decline in oil and other fuel prices has negatively impacted demand for pellet stoves and we expect demand to remain soft in the pellet business while oil and other fuel prices remain low.. Economic growth remains solid in our key international markets, including China and India.  A deterioration of economic conditions in those markets could have adverse effects on our international office furniture sales and operating results.. Deteriorating economic conditions could affect our business significantly, including: reduced demand for products; insolvency of our independent dealers resulting in increased provisions for credit losses; insolvency of our key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products; and decreased customer demand, including order delays or cancellations.. 10. Table of Contents. The office furniture and hearth products industries are highly competitive and, as a result, we may not be successful in winning new business.. Both the office furniture and hearth products industries are highly competitive.  Many of our competitors in both industries offer similar products.  Competitive factors include price, delivery and service, product design, product quality, strength of dealers and other distributors, and relationships with customers and key influencers, including architects, designers, home-builders, and facility managers.  In both industries, most of our top competitors have an installed base of products that can be a source of significant future sales through repeat and expansion orders.  Our main competitors manufacture products with strong acceptance in the marketplace and are capable of developing products that have a competitive advantage over our products, which could make it difficult for us to win new business.. In both the office furniture and hearth products industries, we face price competition from our competitors and from new market entrants who primarily manufacture and source products from lower cost countries.  Price competition impacts our ability to implement price increases or, in some cases, even maintain prices, which could lower our profit margins and adversely affect our future financial performance.. Changes in industry dynamics, including demand and order patterns from our customers, distribution changes, or the loss of a significant number of dealers, could adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition.. We sell our products through multiple distribution channels, which primarily includes independent dealers, national dealers, and wholesalers.  Within these distribution channels, there has been, and may continue to be, consolidation.  We rely on distribution partners to provide a variety of important specification, installation, and after-market services to our customers.  Some of our distribution partners may terminate their relationships with us at any time and for any reason.  We have experienced demand shift to direct fulfillment, reducing two-step distribution that was previously provided by wholesale partners.  Our ability to provide increased direct fulfillment and/or the loss or termination of a significant number of reseller relationships could cause difficulties for us in marketing and distributing our products, resulting in a decline in our sales, which may adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition.. Our profitability may be adversely affected by increases in raw material and commodity costs as well as transportation and shipping challenges.. Fluctuations in the price, availability, and quality of the commodities, raw materials, and components used in manufacturing could have an adverse effect on our costs of sales, profitability, and our ability to meet customers' demand.  We source commodities, raw materials, and components from domestic and international suppliers for both our office furniture and hearth products.  From both domestic and international suppliers, the cost, quality, and availability of commodities, raw materials, and components, including steel, have been significantly affected in recent years by, among other things, changes in global supply and demand, changes in laws and regulations (including tariffs and duties), changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels, natural disasters, labor disputes, terrorism, and political unrest or instability.  These factors could lead to further price increases or supply interruptions in the future.  Our profit margins could be adversely affected if commodity, raw material, and component costs remain high or escalate further, and we are either unable to offset such costs through strategic sourcing initiatives and continuous improvement programs or, as a result of competitive market dynamics, unable to pass along a portion of the higher costs to our customers.. We rely primarily on third-party freight and transportation providers to deliver our products to customers.  Increasing demand for freight providers and a shortage of qualified drivers may cause delays in our shipments and increase the cost to ship our products, which may adversely affect our profitability.  Additionally, we import and export products and components, primarily using container ships, which load and unload through North American ports.  Port-caused delays in the shipment or receipt of products and components, including labor disputes, could cause delayed receipt of our products and components.  These delays could cause manufacturing disruptions, increased expense resulting from alternate shipping methods, or the inability to meet customer delivery expectations, which may adversely affect our sales and profitability.. 11. Table of Contents. Our efforts to introduce new products to meet customer and workplace demands may not be successful, which could limit our sales growth or cause our sales to decline.. To meet the changing needs of our customers and keep pace with market trends, we regularly introduce new office furniture and hearth products.  The introduction of new products requires the coordination of the design, manufacturing, and marketing of the products, which may be affected by factors beyond our control.  The design and engineering of certain new products can take up to a year or more, and further time may be required to achieve client acceptance.  We may face difficulties if we cannot successfully align ourselves with independent architects, home-builders, and designers who are able to design, in a timely manner, high quality products consistent with our image and our customers' needs.  Accordingly, the launch of a product may be later or less successful than we originally anticipated, limiting our sales growth or causing our sales to decline.. Our implementation and use of a new business software system, and accompanying transformation of our business processes, could result in problems that could negatively impact our business and results of operations.. We are engaged in a multi-year, broad-based program, which we refer to as business systems transformation (\"BST\").  The BST initiative includes the introduction of a new software system along with process changes and new ways to work, which simplify and streamline our business processes.  In 2016 and 2017, we implemented BST across several of our smaller operating companies.  The remaining in-scope domestic office furniture operations switched over to the new system on February 1, 2018.  At this early stage of implementation, there can be no assurance issues relating to BST will not occur, including compatibility issues, integration challenges and further delays, and higher than expected implementation costs.  While not experienced to date, BST may not function properly or deliver the projected benefits, which could significantly disrupt our business, including our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, invoice customers, process payments, generate management and financial reports, and otherwise run our business.. Our continuing activities to reduce structural costs may result in customer disruption, may distract management from other activities, and may not achieve the desired results.. As part of our commitment to taking structural cost out of our business, we regularly close, reconfigure, or transform manufacturing and distribution facilities.  Over the past several years, we have closed a number of facilities in the United States and internationally.  We have implemented, and will continue to implement, restructuring actions to transform our business and reduce our manufacturing footprint.  These actions may take longer than anticipated, prove costlier than expected, and may distract management from other activities.  If we do not fully realize the expected benefits of our restructuring activities, our financial condition and ability to meet customer needs could be negatively affected.. We may not be able to successfully integrate and manage our acquired businesses and alliances.. One of our growth strategies is to supplement our organic growth through acquisitions and strategic alliances.  The benefits of acquisitions or alliances may take more time than expected to develop or integrate into our operations.  In addition, acquisitions and alliances involve a number of risks, including:. • diversion of management's attention;. • difficulties in assimilating the operations and products of an acquired business or in realizing projected efficiencies, cost savings and revenue synergies;. • potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses or adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. • reallocation of amounts of capital from other operating initiatives or an increase in our leverage and debt service requirements to pay the acquisition purchase prices, which could in turn restrict our ability to access additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy;. • inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent, or other liabilities or problems and unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; and. • incorrect estimates made in accounting for acquisitions, incurrence of non-recurring charges, and write-off of significant amounts of goodwill that could adversely affect our financial results.. Our ability to grow through future acquisitions will depend, in part, on the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at an acceptable price, our ability to compete effectively for these acquisition candidates, and the availability of capital to complete the acquisitions.  Any potential acquisition may not be successful and could adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition.. 12. Table of Contents. We may need to take additional impairment charges related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which would adversely affect our financial results.. Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are tested for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change making it reasonably possible an impairment may exist.  Poor performance in portions of our business where we have goodwill or intangible assets, or declines in the market value of our equity, may result in impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to extensive environmental regulation and have exposure to potential environmental liabilities.. Through our past and present operation and ownership by us of manufacturing facilities and real property, we are subject to extensive and changing federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to discharges in air, water, and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances.  Compliance with environmental regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position to date; however, compliance with current laws or more stringent laws or regulations which may be imposed on us in the future, stricter interpretation of existing laws or discoveries of contamination at our real property sites which occurred prior to our ownership, or the advent of environmental regulation may require us to incur additional expenditures in the future, some of which may be material.. Increasing healthcare costs could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.. We provide healthcare benefits to the majority of our members and are self-insured.  Healthcare costs have continued to rise over time, which increases our annual spending on healthcare and could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Our international operations expose us to risks related to conducting business in multiple jurisdictions outside the United States.. We manufacture, market, and sell our products in international markets, including China and India.  We plan to continue to grow internationally.  We primarily sell our products and report our financial results in U.S. dollars; however, our increased business in countries outside the United States exposes us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  Paying our expenses in other currencies can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those expenses in terms of U.S. dollars, which may affect our profits.  In the future, any foreign currency appreciation relative to the U.S. dollar would increase our expenses that are denominated in that currency.  Additionally, as we report currency in the U.S. dollar, our financial position is affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we have operations relative to the strength of the U.S. dollar.. Further, certain countries have complex regulatory systems that impose administrative and legal requirements, which make managing international operations more difficult, including approvals to transfer funds into certain countries.  If we are unable to provide financial support to our international operations in a timely manner, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We periodically review our foreign currency exposure and evaluate whether we should enter into hedging transactions.. Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of additional risks, including:. • social and political turmoil, official corruption, and civil and labor unrest;. • restrictive government actions, including the imposition of trade quotas and tariffs and restrictions on transfers of funds;. • changes in labor laws and regulations affecting our ability to hire, retain, or dismiss employees;. • the need to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting laws and regulations, including environmental and corporate laws and regulations;. • the failure of our compliance programs and internal training to prevent violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws;. • preference for locally branded products and laws and business practices favoring local competition;. • less effective protection of intellectual property and increased possibility of loss due to cyber-theft;. • unfavorable business conditions or economic instability in any particular country or region;. • infrastructure disruptions;. • potentially conflicting cultural and business practices;. • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; and. • changes to border taxes or other international tax reforms.. 13. Table of Contents. Restrictions imposed by the terms of our credit facility may limit our operating and financial flexibility.. Our credit facility and other financing arrangements may limit our ability to finance operations, service debt, or engage in other business activities that may be in our interests.  Specifically, our credit facility may restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, create or incur certain liens with respect to any of our properties or assets, engage in lines of business substantially different than those currently conducted by us, sell, lease, license, or dispose of any of our assets, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, make certain restricted payments or take certain restricted actions, and enter into certain sale-leaseback arrangements.  Our credit facility also requires us to maintain certain financial covenants.. Our failure to comply with the obligations under our credit facility may result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, may cause accelerated repayment of the indebtedness under the credit facility.  We cannot be certain we will have sufficient funds available to pay any accelerated repayments or we will have the ability to refinance accelerated repayments on terms favorable to us or at all.. Costs related to product defects could adversely affect our profitability.. We incur various expenses related to product defects, including product warranty costs, product recall and retrofit costs, and product liability costs.  These expenses relative to product sales vary and could increase.  We use chemicals and materials in our products and include components in our products from external suppliers, which we believe are safe and appropriate for their designated use; however, harmful effects may become known, which could subject us to litigation and significant losses.  We maintain reserves for product defect-related costs but cannot be certain these reserves will be adequate to cover actual claims.  We also purchase insurance coverage and maintain a reserve for our self-insured losses based upon estimates and actuarial assumptions, but we cannot be certain insurance would cover all losses related to product claims.  Incorrect estimates or any significant increase in the rate of our product defect expenses could have a material adverse effect on operations.. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms.. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including our need for capital improvements, tooling, new product development, and acquisitions.  To the extent our existing capital is insufficient to meet these requirements and cover any losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets.  Future borrowings or financings may not be available to us under our credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or meet our liquidity needs.. Any equity or debt financing, if available, could have terms unfavorable to us.  In addition, financings could result in dilution to our shareholders or the securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our common stock.  If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital.. Our sales to the U.S. federal, state, and local governments are subject to uncertain future funding levels and federal, state, and local procurement laws and are governed by restrictive contract terms; any of these factors could limit current or future business.. We derive a portion of our revenue from sales to various U.S. federal, state, and local government agencies and departments.  Our ability to compete successfully for and retain business with the U.S. government, as well as with state and local governments, is highly dependent on cost-effective performance.  Our government business is highly sensitive to changes in procurement laws; national, international, state, and local public priorities; and budgets at all levels of government, which have recently experienced downward pressure and, in the case of the federal budget, are subject to uncertainty.. Our contracts with government entities are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government.  The U.S. government, as well as state and local governments, can typically terminate or modify their contracts with us either for their convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract.  A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and impede our ability to compete in the future for contracts and orders with agencies and departments at all levels of government.  Moreover, we are subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts, including requirements related to procurement integrity, export controls, employment practices, the accuracy of records, and reporting of costs.  If we were found to not be a responsible supplier or to have committed fraud or certain criminal offenses, we could be suspended or debarred from all further federal, state, or local government contracting.. 14. Table of Contents. We rely on information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business and a disruption or failure of these systems could adversely affect our business.. We rely upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information, as well as to manage numerous aspects of our business and provide information to management.  Additionally, we collect and store sensitive data of our customers, suppliers, and employees in data centers and on information technology networks.  The secure operation of these information technology networks and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations and strategy.  These networks and systems, despite security and precautionary measures, are vulnerable to natural events and malicious activity.  Though we attempt to detect and prevent these incidents, we may not be successful.  Any disruption of our information technology networks or systems, or access to or disclosure of information stored in or transmitted by our systems, could result in legal claims and damages and loss of intellectual property or other proprietary information.. Our results of operations and earnings may not meet guidance or expectations.. We provide public guidance on our expected results of operations for future periods.  This guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties, including the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings and public statements, and is based necessarily on assumptions we make at the time we provide such guidance.  Our guidance may not always be accurate.  If, in the future, our results of operations for a particular period do not meet our guidance or the expectations of investment analysts or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly.. Iowa law and provisions in our charter documents may have the effect of preventing or hindering a change in control and adversely affecting the market price of our common stock.. Our Articles of Incorporation give our Board of Directors the authority to issue up to two million shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights and preferences of the preferred stock without obtaining shareholder approval.  The existence of this preferred stock could make it more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of the Corporation by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest, or otherwise.  Furthermore, this preferred stock could be issued with other rights, including economic rights, senior to our common stock, thereby having a potentially adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes.  Our classified Board, along with other provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and Iowa corporate law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or remove our directors by means of a proxy contest, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders.  Additionally, we may, in the future, adopt measures (such as a shareholder rights plan or \"poison pill\") that could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing an unsolicited takeover, even if such a change in control were at a premium price or favored by a majority of unaffiliated shareholders.  These measures may be adopted without any further vote or action by our shareholders.. An inability to protect our intellectual property could have a significant impact on our business.. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights, both in the United States and in foreign countries, through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements.  Because of the differences in foreign trademark, copyright, patent, and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual property rights do not generally receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they do in the United States.  In some parts of the world, we have limited protections, if any, for our intellectual property.  The degree of protection offered by the claims of the various patents, copyrights, trademarks, and service marks may not be broad enough to provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantages to us, and patents, copyrights, trademarks, or service marks may not be issued on our pending or contemplated applications.  In addition, not all of our products are covered by patents or similar intellectual property protections.  It is also possible that our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and service marks may be challenged, invalidated, canceled, narrowed, or circumvented.. In the past, certain of our products have been copied and sold by others.  We try to enforce our intellectual property rights, but we have to make choices about where and how we pursue enforcement and where we seek and maintain intellectual property protection.  In many cases, the cost of enforcing our rights is substantial, and we may determine that the costs of enforcement outweigh the potential benefits.. 15. Table of Contents. If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs and may have to redesign or discontinue an infringing product.. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed upon third parties' intellectual property rights.  Companies operating in our industry routinely seek patent protection for their product designs, and many of our principal competitors have large patent portfolios.  Prior to launching major new products in our key markets, we normally evaluate existing intellectual property rights.  However, our competitors and suppliers may have filed for patent protection which is not, at the time of our evaluation, a matter of public knowledge.  Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing upon third parties' intellectual property rights may not always be successful.  Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing, or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign, re-engineer, or re-brand our products or packaging, if feasible; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property.. Natural disasters, acts of God, force majeure events, or other catastrophic events may impact the Corporation's production capacity and, in turn, negatively impact profitability.. Natural disasters, acts of God, force majeure events, or other catastrophic events, including severe weather, military action, terrorist attacks, power interruptions, and fires, could disrupt operations and likewise, the ability to produce or deliver our products.  Several of our production facilities, members, and key management are located within a small geographic area in eastern Iowa and a natural disaster or catastrophe in the area could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and business conditions.  Further, several of our production facilities are single-site manufacturers of certain products, and an adverse event affecting any of those facilities could significantly delay production of certain products and adversely affect our operations and business conditions.  Members are an integral part of our business and events including an epidemic could reduce the availability of members reporting for work.  In the event we experience a temporary or permanent interruption in our ability to produce or deliver product, revenues could be reduced, and business could be materially adversely affected.  In addition, any continuing disruption in our computer system could adversely affect our ability to receive and process customers' orders, manufacture products and ship products on a timely basis, and could adversely affect relations with customers, potentially resulting in reduction in orders from customers or loss of customers.  We maintain insurance to help protect us from costs relating to some of these events, but it may not be sufficient or paid in a timely manner in the event we suffer such an event."
