[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business is geographically concentrated in south Louisiana and west Mississippi, which are areas where the oil and gas industry has a significant presence. Low prices in crude oil and gas, among other factors, could cause a downturn in the local economy, which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Most of our loans are to individuals and businesses located in south Louisiana and west Mississippi. The oil and gas industry has a significant presence in the market areas in which we operate. Regional economic conditions affect the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans. While crude oil prices have rebounded somewhat in the past 24 months, they have declined considerably since mid-2014. Continued fluctuations in crude oil prices could adversely affect our operations and economic conditions in some of our markets during 2018 and future periods, which could adversely affect our future results of operations. Although the Company attempts to mitigate risk by diversifying its borrower base, approximately $58.8 million, or 3.5%, of the Company's loan portfolio at December 31, 2017 was comprised of loans to borrowers in the oil and gas industry (which is also referred to as the \"energy sector\"). We had an additional $9.3 million in unfunded loan commitments to companies in the energy sector at such date. At December 31, 2017, $2.2 million of our loans in the energy sector were on nonaccrual status. $816,000 of our total allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2017 was attributable to energy sector loans. Historically, the oil and gas industry has been an important factor in the local economy in our Lafayette and Natchez markets. If oil prices continue to remain low, it could have an adverse effect on our customers resulting in increased levels of nonperforming loans, provisions for loan losses and expense associated with loan collection efforts.. 8. Table of Contents. There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate, including multi-family residential, commercial and industrial and construction and land lending activities.. Our lending activities include loans secured by commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans. Our multi-family residential, commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans increased by an aggregate of 207.5%, 126.6% and 139.0%, respectively, from December 31, 2013 through December 31, 2017. Multi-family residential lending, commercial real estate lending and commercial and industrial lending generally are considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors. As a result of the larger loan balances typically involved in these loans, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one borrower relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. As of December 31, 2017, the largest outstanding balances of our, commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans and multi-family residential loans were $3.3 million, $15.1 million and $5.1 million, respectively. If a large loan were to become non-performing, as we have experienced in the past, it can have a significant impact on our results of operations. Because we intend to continue our growth in commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans, our credit risk exposure may increase and we may need to make additional provisions to our allowance for loan losses, which could adversely affect our future results of operations.. In addition to commercial real estate, commercial and industrial loans and multi-family residential loans, the Bank holds a significant portfolio of construction and land loans. As of December 31, 2017, the Bank's construction and land loans amounted to $177.3 million, or 10.7% of our loan portfolio. Construction and land loans generally have a higher risk of loss than single-family residential mortgage loans due primarily to the critical nature of the initial estimates of a property's value upon completion of construction compared to the estimated costs, including interest, of construction as well as other assumptions. If the estimates upon which construction loans are made prove to be inaccurate, we may be confronted with projects that, upon completion, have values which are below the loan amounts. If the Bank is forced to liquidate the collateral associated with such loans at values less than the remaining loan balance, it could have a significant impact on our results of operations.. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover probable losses.. We have established an allowance for loan losses based upon various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. While we are not aware of any specific factors indicating a deficiency in the amount of our allowance for loan losses, in light of the current economic environment, one of the most pressing issues faced by financial institutions is the adequacy of their allowance for loan losses. Federal bank regulators have routinely scrutinize the level of the allowance for losses maintained by regulated institutions. In the event that we have to increase our allowance for loan losses beyond current levels, it would have an adverse effect on our results in future periods. As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses amounted to $14.8 million, or 0.89% of total loans. Excluding acquired loans, our allowance for loan losses amounted to 1.52% of total loans as of December 31, 2017.. Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired could be inaccurate, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of acquired loan portfolios, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. If our assumptions are incorrect, increased loss reserves may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolio. Any increase in future loan losses would have a negative effect on our operating results.. Other than temporary declines in the value of our investment securities may require us to take additional charges to earnings.. We evaluate our securities portfolio for other-than-temporary impairment (\"OTTI\") throughout the year. Each investment with a fair value less than book value is reviewed quarterly. An impairment charge is recorded against individual securities if management's review concludes that the decline in value is other than temporary. Delinquencies and defaults in the mortgage loans underlying these securities may adversely affect the cash flows received by us and may result in a conclusion in future periods that the securities are other-than-temporarily impaired. Such a conclusion of OTTI would require us to take additional charges to earnings to write down the value of these securities.. 9. Table of Contents. Our financial performance and future growth may be negatively affected if we are unable to successfully execute our growth plans, which may include acquisitions.. Over the past several years, we have grown our branch system primarily through acquisitions of other financial institutions. Our ability to successfully acquire other institutions depends on our ability to identify, acquire and integrate such institutions into our franchise.    Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our analysis of past or future acquisitions was not complete and correct or our integration efforts were not successful. Currently, we have no agreements or understandings with anyone regarding a future acquisition.. A natural disaster, especially one affecting our market areas, could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Since a considerable portion of our business is conducted in south Louisiana, most of our credit exposure is in that area. Historically, south Louisiana has been vulnerable to natural disasters, including hurricanes and floods. Natural disasters could harm our operations directly through interference with communications, which would prevent us from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling our flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and our operational, financial and management information systems. A natural disaster or recurring power outages may also impair the value of our loan portfolio, as uninsured or underinsured losses, including losses from business disruption, may reduce our borrowers' ability to repay their loans. Disasters may also reduce the value of the real estate securing our loans, impairing our ability to recover on defaulted loans through foreclosure and making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Although we have implemented several back-up systems and protections (and maintain business interruption insurance), these measures may not protect us fully from the effects of a natural disaster. The occurrence of natural disasters in our market areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. The operations of financial institutions are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. If general market rates of interest increase, our interest expense on deposits and borrowings would likely increase which could adversely affect our interest rate spread and net interest income. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets, our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives, and the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control.. We face strong competition which adversely affects our profitability.. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions. We are significantly smaller than the larger depository institutions operating in our market areas. The financial resources of these larger competitors may permit them to pay higher interest rates on their deposits and to be more aggressive in new loan originations. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Some of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources, more advanced technological capabilities, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Vigorous competition from both bank and non-bank organizations is expected to continue.. 10. Table of Contents. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB, the OCC and the FDIC. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations.. Fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond the Company's control, including general economic conditions and the policies of the FRB and other governmental and regulatory agencies. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment of loans, the fair value of existing assets and liabilities, the purchase of investments, the retention and generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our earnings could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. We have adopted asset and liability management policies to mitigate the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income or earnings. However, even with these policies in place, a change in interest rates can impact our results of operations or financial condition.. Our goodwill may be determined to be impaired at a future date depending on the results of periodic impairment tests.. We test goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if necessary. According to applicable accounting requirements, acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. If the quoted market price of our common stock were to decline significantly, or if it was determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the amount recorded for goodwill. This, in turn, would result in a charge to earnings and, thus, a reduction in shareholders' equity. See Notes 2 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning our goodwill and the required impairment test.. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause financial losses.. Our ability to adequately conduct and grow our business is dependent on our ability to create and maintain an appropriate operational and organizational control infrastructure. Operational risk can arise in numerous ways including employee fraud, customer fraud, and control lapses in bank operations and information technology. Our dependence on our employees and automated systems, including the automated systems used by acquired entities and third parties, to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical failures or tampering of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We are also subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. Failure to maintain an appropriate operational infrastructure can lead to loss of service to customers, legal actions, and noncompliance with various laws and regulations.. We continuously monitor our operational and technological capabilities and make modifications and improvements when we believe it will be cost effective to do so. In some instances, we may build and maintain these capabilities ourselves. We also outsource some of these functions to third parties. These third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. We also face risk from the integration of new infrastructure platforms and/or new third party providers of such platforms into its existing businesses.. 11. Table of Contents. Changes in accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations.. Our accounting policies are fundamental to the understanding of our financial condition and results of operations. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (\"GAAP\") requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the financial statements by affecting the value of our assets or liabilities and results of operations. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because materially different amounts may be reported if different estimates or assumptions were used. If such estimates or assumptions underlying the financial statements are incorrect, we could experience material losses. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") and the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\") change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of such standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, it is possible, if unlikely, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements in material amounts.. System failure or cybersecurity breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other potential losses.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen hardware and cybersecurity issues. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure we use, including our Internet banking activities, against damage from physical break-ins, cybersecurity breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the internet or users. Such problems could jeopardize the security of our customers' personal information and other information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customers, or inhibit current and potential customers from our internet banking services, any of all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Although we have security measures designed to mitigate the possibility of break-ins, breaches and other disruptive problems, including firewalls and penetration testing, there can be no assurance that such security measures will be effective in preventing such problems.. Economic conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Prolonged deteriorating economic conditions could significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investment securities, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further, declines in real estate values and sales volumes and elevated unemployment levels may result in higher loan delinquencies, increases in our non-performing and classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Reduction in problem assets can be slow, and the process can be exacerbated by the condition of the properties securing non-performing loans and the length of time involved in the foreclosure process. To the extent that we must work through the resolution of assets, economic problems may cause us to incur losses and adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition.. 12. Table of Contents. We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations.. Changes in tax laws contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted in December 2017, include a number of provisions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for residential real estate. Included in this legislation was a reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. In addition, other changes included: (i) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (ii) the elimination of interest deductions for home equity loans, (iii) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense and (iv) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes.. The recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease. The value of the properties securing loans in our loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership, which could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We expect that the implementation of a new accounting standard could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for the Company and the Bank for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2019. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss (\"CECL\"), will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and provide for the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which we expect could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and will likely greatly increase the data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses, or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our strategy of growing through mergers and acquisitions.. Mergers and acquisitions are currently a component of our business model and growth strategy. Accordingly, it is possible that we could acquire other banking institutions, other financial services companies or branches of banks in the future. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and trading values and, therefore, may result in the dilution of our tangible book value per share. Our ability to engage in future mergers and acquisitions depends on various factors, including: (1) our ability to identify suitable merger partners and acquisition opportunities; (2) our ability to finance and complete transactions on acceptable terms and at acceptable prices; and (3) our ability to receive the necessary regulatory and, when required, shareholder approvals. Our inability to engage in an acquisition or merger for any of these reasons could have an adverse impact on the implementation of our business strategies. Furthermore, mergers and acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: (1) our ability to achieve planned synergies and to integrate the branches and operations we acquire, and the internal controls and regulatory functions into our current operations and (2) the diversion of management's attention from existing operations, which may adversely affect our ability to successfully conduct our business and negatively impact our financial results.. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party service providers; systems failures, interruptions and cybersecurity breaches could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our business is dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party service providers. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. 13. Table of Contents. Our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches. We likely will expend additional resources to protect against the threat of such security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by such security breaches or viruses. To the extent that the activities of our third-party service providers or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation costs and other possible liabilities.. The occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches or failures of our information security controls or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. As a bank, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation or damage to our reputation. Such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts. Information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us or our clients, denial or degradation of service attacks and malware or other cyber-attacks. In recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. Moreover, in recent periods, several large corporations, including financial institutions and retail companies, have suffered major data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. Some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which could increase their risks of identity theft and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us.. Information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on networks and systems maintained by us and certain third-party partners, such as our online banking, mobile banking or accounting systems. The secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain the confidence of our clients. Breaches of information security also may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or the confidential information of our clients, including employees. In addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. Our third-party partners' inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, breaches of security could result in a number of negative events, including losses to us or our clients, loss of business or clients, damage to our reputation, the incurrence of additional expenses, disruption to our business, additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects."
