[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business exposes us to certain risks. Risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on may also adversely affect our business and operation. The following is a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition and future results.. Risks Related to Our Industry. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, and changes in the laws and regulations to which we are subject could adversely affect our profitability.. We and our bank subsidiary are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. As a registered bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Our bank subsidiary is also primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board and the Arkansas State Bank Department.. 27. Table of Contents. Banking industry regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. Complying with such regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements by our regulators. Violations of various laws, even if unintentional, may result in significant fines or other penalties, including restrictions on branching or bank acquisitions.. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Act instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector during the recession of the last decade. The act requires the issuance of a substantial number of new regulations by federal regulatory agencies which will affect financial institutions, some of which have yet to be issued or implemented.. President Trump and the Congressional majority have indicated that they intend to closely scrutinize the Dodd-Frank Act and that provisions of the act and rules promulgated thereunder may be revised, repealed or amended. While any such reforms are expected to be favorable to our industry, we cannot assure than they will not significantly increase our compliance or operating costs or otherwise have a significant impact on our business. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated under the act may continue to be implemented, and there could be additional new federal or state laws, regulations and policies regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Additionally, financial institution regulatory agencies have intensified their response to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including through the issuance of formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry or other new legislation or regulations could adversely impact our operations and our financial performance by subjecting us to additional costs, restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services.. As regulation of the banking industry continues to evolve, we expect the costs of compliance to continue to increase and, thus, to affect our ability to operate profitably. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans. If these developments negatively impact our ability to implement our business strategies, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and future prospects.. We have exceeded $10 billion in assets, and as result, we will become subject to increased regulatory requirements, which could materially and adversely affect us.. We and our bank subsidiary exceeded $10 billion in total assets for the first time during the first quarter of 2017, and as of December 31, 2017, our total assets remain in excess of $10 billion. Therefore, we and our bank subsidiary will become subject to increased regulatory requirements beginning in 2018. The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations impose various additional requirements on bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in total assets, including compliance with portions of the Federal Reserve's enhanced prudential oversight requirements and annual stress testing requirements. Failure to meet the enhanced prudential standards and stress testing requirements could limit, among other things, our ability to engage in expansionary activities or make dividend payments to our shareholders. In addition, banks with $10 billion or more in total assets are primarily examined by the CFPB with respect to various federal consumer financial protection laws and regulations. Previously, our bank subsidiary has been subject to regulations adopted by the CFPB, but the Federal Reserve was primarily responsible for examining our bank subsidiary's compliance with consumer protection laws and those CFPB regulations. As a relatively new agency with evolving regulations and practices, there is uncertainty as to how the CFPB's examination and regulatory authority might impact our business. Further, the possibility of future changes in the authority of the CFPB by Congress or the Trump Administration is uncertain, and we cannot ascertain the impact, if any, changes to the CFPB may have on our business.. 28. Table of Contents. With respect to deposit-taking activities, banks with assets in excess of $10 billion are subject to two changes. First, these institutions are subject to a deposit assessment based on a new scorecard issued by the FDIC. This scorecard considers, among other things, the bank's CAMELS rating, results of asset-related stress testing and funding-related stress, as well as our use of core deposits, among other things. Depending on the results of the bank's performance under that scorecard, the total base assessment rate is between 1.5 to 40 basis points. Any increase in our bank subsidiary's deposit insurance assessments may result in an increased expense related to our use of deposits as a funding source. Additionally, banks with over $10 billion in total assets are no longer exempt from the requirements of the Federal Reserve's rules on interchange transaction fees for debit cards. This means that, beginning on July 1, 2018, our bank subsidiary will be limited to receiving only a \"reasonable\" interchange transaction fee for any debit card transactions processed using debit cards issued by our bank subsidiary to our customers. The Federal Reserve has determined that it is unreasonable for a bank with more than $10 billion in total assets to receive more than $0.21 plus 5 basis points of the transaction plus a $0.01 fraud adjustment for an interchange transaction fee for debit card transactions. A reduction in the amount of interchange fees we receive for electronic debit interchange will reduce our revenues. During fiscal year 2017, we collected $20.8 million in debit card interchange fees. We estimate that had we been subject to this limitation during 2017, our interchange fee revenue would have been reduced by approximately $7.0 million.. In anticipation of becoming subject to the heightened regulatory requirements, we have hired additional compliance personnel and implemented structural initiatives to address these requirements. However, compliance with these requirements may necessitate that we hire additional compliance or other personnel, design and implement additional internal controls, and/or incur other significant expenses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Compliance with the annual stress testing requirements, part of which must be publicly disclosed, may also be misinterpreted by the market generally or our customers and, as a result, may adversely affect our stock price or our ability to retain our customers or effectively compete for new business opportunities. Our regulators may also consider our compliance with these regulatory requirements when examining our operations generally or considering any request for regulatory approval we may make, even requests for approvals on unrelated matters.. Difficult market and economic conditions may adversely affect our industry and our business.. The financial crisis and the resulting economic downturn in the latter years of the last decade had a significant adverse impact on the banking industry, and particularly community banks. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increased delinquencies and foreclosures, negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. Reduced availability of commercial credit and sustained higher unemployment negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. As a result of these market conditions and the raising of credit standards, our industry experienced commercial and consumer deficiencies, low customer confidence, market volatility and generally sluggish business activity.. Although general economic conditions nationally and locally in our market areas have improved in recent years, we cannot be certain that the recent positive economic trends will continue. The improvement of certain economic indicators, such as real estate asset values, rents and unemployment, may vary between geographic markets and may continue to lag behind improvement in the overall economy. These economic indicators typically affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial services, more significantly than other economic sectors. If the positive movement in these economic indicators in our market areas subsides or conditions once again worsen, the adverse effects of an economic downturn on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market may result in increased foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies as well as more restricted access to funds. Any such negative events may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price.. 29. Table of Contents. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules is uncertain.. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the other federal bank regulatory agencies issued a final rule to revise their risk-based and leverage capital requirements and their method for calculating risk-weighted assets to make them consistent with the agreements that were reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule applies to all banking organizations. Among other things, the rule establishes a new common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement (4.5% of risk-weighted assets) and a higher minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital requirement (6% of risk-weighted assets) and assigns higher risk weightings (150%) to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on non-accrual status and certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property. The final rule also limits a banking organization's capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5% of common equity tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, which is in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The final rule became effective for our bank subsidiary and us on January 1, 2015. The capital conservation buffer requirement began being phased in on January 1, 2016, and the full capital conservation buffer requirement will be effective January 1, 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such activities. In addition, if the banking organization grows above $15 billion as a result of an acquisition, or organically grows above $15 billion and then makes an acquisition, its trust preferred securities will be included as Tier 2 capital rather than Tier 1 capital.. While our current capital levels well exceed the revised capital requirements and we are currently under the $15 billion threshold, our capital levels could decrease in the future as a result of factors such as acquisitions, faster than anticipated growth, reduced earnings levels, operating losses, exceeding the $15 billion threshold and other factors. The application of more stringent capital requirements for us could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in our inability to pay dividends or repurchase shares if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements.. Our FDIC insurance premiums and assessments may increase and result in higher noninterest expense.. Our bank subsidiary's deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits, and accordingly, we are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. As our bank subsidiary has exceeded $10 billion in assets, the method for calculating its FDIC assessments has changed and our FDIC assessments will increase as a result. See \"Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation - Deposit Insurance and Assessments.\" In addition, the FDIC recently increased the deposit insurance fund's target reserve ratio to 2.0% of insured deposits following the Dodd-Frank Act's elimination of the 1.5% cap on the insurance fund's reserve ratio and has put in place a restoration plan to restore the deposit insurance fund to its 1.35% minimum reserve ratio mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act by September 30, 2020. In March 2016, the FDIC approved a final rule to meet this requirement by 2018. To meet the minimum reserve ratio by 2018, during the third calendar quarter of 2016 the FDIC began assessing banks with consolidated assets of more than $10.0 billion a surcharge assessment of 0.045%. The surcharge will continue through the earlier of the quarter that the reserve ratio first reaches or exceeds 1.35% and December 31, 2018. In the event the reserve ratio does not reach 1.35% by December 31, 2018, the FDIC has approved imposing a shortfall assessment on banks with $10.0 billion or more in consolidated assets on March 31, 2019.. We are generally unable to control the amount and timetable for payment of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. There is no guarantee that our assessment rate will not increase in the future. Additionally, if there is another increase in bank or financial institution failures or the recently adopted changes do not have their desired effect of strengthening the DIF reserve ratio, the FDIC may further revise the assessment rates or the risk-based assessment system. Such changes may require us to pay higher FDIC premiums than our current levels, or the FDIC may charge additional special assessments, either of which would increase our noninterest expense.. 30. Table of Contents. Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations and monetary policy.. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature, and thus subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Consequently, our results of operations can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risk. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationship between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income or a decrease in interest rate spread. In addition to affecting our profitability, changes in interest rates can impact the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Changes in interest rates can also affect our business and profitability in numerous other ways. For example, increases in interest rates can have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing loan demand and the ability of borrowers to repay their current obligations, while decreases in interest rates may affect loan prepayments.. As of December 31, 2017, our one-year ratio of interest-rate-sensitive assets to interest-rate-sensitive liabilities was 117.9% and our cumulative repricing gap position was 9.1% of total earning assets, resulting in a limited impact on earnings for various interest rate change scenarios. Floating rate loans made up 49.9% of our $10.33 billion total loan portfolio. A loan is considered fixed rate if the loan is currently at its adjustable floor or ceiling. In addition, 62.7% of our loans receivable and 69.9% of our time deposits at December 31, 2017, were scheduled to reprice within 12 months and our other rate sensitive asset and rate sensitive liabilities composition is subject to change. As a result, our interest rate sensitivity profile was asset sensitive as of December 31, 2017, meaning that we estimate our net interest income would increase more from rising interest rates than from falling interest rates. Significant composition changes in our rate sensitive assets or liabilities could result in a more unbalanced position and interest rate changes would have more of an impact on our earnings.. Our results of operations are also affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Actions by the Federal Reserve Board involving monetary policies could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings.. Risks Related to Our Business. The total impact of Hurricane Irma on our financial condition and results of operations may not be known for some time and may negatively impact our future earnings.. Hurricane Irma caused significant property damage in our South Florida market areas, particularly in the Florida Keys and southwestern Florida, and resulted in widespread disruptions in power, transportation and the local economies of these areas, as well as less extensive damage throughout other parts of the state of Florida. A substantial amount of our loans are secured by real estate located in the market areas affected by this powerful storm. On most collateral dependent loans, our exposure is limited due to the existence of flood and property insurance. We monitor our borrower's insurance coverage on a regular basis and force place insurance, as necessary.. We are continuing to evaluate Hurricane Irma's impact on our customers and our business, including our properties, assets and loan portfolios. However, we expect to experience increased loan delinquencies and loan restructurings as a result of the storm, particularly in the short term as customers undertake recovery and clean-up efforts, including the submission of insurance claims. Based on our initial assessments of the potential credit impact and damage, we accrued $33.4 million of pre-tax hurricane expenses during the third quarter of 2017. The $33.4 million of hurricane expenses includes $32.9 million to establish a storm-related provision for loan losses and a $556,000 charge related to direct damage expenses incurred through December 31, 2017. In addition, in order to assist our customers during this crisis, we offered customers located in the disaster area a 90-day deferment on outstanding loans. During the fourth quarter of 2017, customers with loan balances totaling approximately $211.7 million accepted the 90-day deferment. As of December 31, 2017, loan balances totaling approximately $63.6 million remained on the 90-day deferment.. 31. Table of Contents. Because the total impact of the storm may not be known for some time, it is impossible to know at this time whether our current accrual for hurricane-related expenses will be sufficient to cover our actual losses. We may experience more extensive loan delinquencies and restructurings than we currently expect, which could negatively impact our cash flow and, if not timely cured, increase our non-performing assets and reduce our net interest income. Such increases could require us to further increase our provision for loan losses and result in higher loan charge-offs, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition in future periods.. Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate and our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which would materially and adversely affect us.. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of our secured loans. We endeavor to maintain an allowance for loan losses that we consider adequate to absorb future losses that may occur in our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses was approximately $110.3 million, or 1.07% of our total loans. In determining the size of the allowance, we analyze our loan portfolio based on our historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions, and other pertinent information.. If our assumptions are incorrect, our current allowance may be insufficient to absorb future loan losses, and increased loan loss reserves may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. When there is an economic downturn it is more difficult for us to estimate the losses that we will experience in our loan portfolio. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs could have a negative effect on our operating results.. Our high concentration of real estate loans and especially commercial real estate loans exposes us to increased lending risk.. As of December 31, 2017, 85.1% of our total loan portfolio was comprised of loans with real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. This includes commercial real estate loans (excluding construction/land development) of $4.68 billion, or 45.3% of total loans, construction/land development loans of $1.70 billion, or 16.4% of total loans, and residential real estate loans of $2.41 billion, or 23.4% of total loans. This high concentration of real estate loans could subject us to increased credit risk in the event of a decrease in real estate values in our markets, a real estate recession or a natural disaster. Also, in any such event, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling real estate collateral would be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans.. In addition to the risks associated with the high concentration of real estate-secured loans, the commercial real estate and construction/land development loans, which comprised 61.7% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017, expose us to a greater risk of loss than our residential real estate loans, which comprised 23.4% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017. Commercial real estate and land development loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one commercial loan or one credit relationship exposes us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one residential mortgage loan.. The repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flows from the project are reduced, a borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, we may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan, or in the most extreme cases, we may have to foreclose.. 32. Table of Contents. Our geographic concentration of banking activities and loan portfolio makes us more vulnerable to adverse conditions in our local markets.. Our bank subsidiary operates through branch locations in Arkansas, Florida, Alabama and New York City and a loan production office in Los Angeles, California. However, approximately 90.4% of our total loans and 90.8% of our real estate loans as of December 31, 2017, are to borrowers whose collateral is located in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida and New York, the states in which the Company has its branch locations. An adverse development with respect to the market conditions of any of these specific market areas or a decrease in real estate values in those market areas could expose us to a greater risk of loss than a portfolio that is spread among a larger geographic base.. Depressed local economic and housing markets have led to loan losses and reduced earnings in the past and could lead to additional loan losses and reduced earnings.. During the latter years of the last decade, our Florida markets experienced a dramatic reduction in housing and real estate values, coupled with significantly higher unemployment. These conditions contributed to increased non-performing loans and reduced asset quality during this time period. While market conditions in our Florida markets have improved in recent years leading to resulting improvements in our non-performing loans and asset quality, any similar future economic downturn or deterioration in real estate values could cause us to incur additional losses relating to increased non-performing loans. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income and our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then-fair market value of the collateral, which may result in a loss. These loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile and the capital our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. These factors, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions deteriorate locally or nationally, our business may be adversely affected. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur.. If the value of real estate in our Florida markets were to once again deteriorate, a significant portion of our loans in our Florida market could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. As of December 31, 2017, loans in the Florida market totaled $5.26 billion, or 50.9% of our loans receivable. Of the Florida loans, approximately 88.7% were secured by real estate. In prior years, the difficult local economic conditions have adversely affected the values of our real estate collateral in Florida, and they could do so again if the markets were to once again deteriorate in the future. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment on our loans in the event of default by the borrower but may deteriorate in value during the time credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected.. Because we have a concentration of exposure to a number of individual borrowers, a significant loss on any of those loans could materially and adversely affect us.. We have a concentration of exposure to a number of individual borrowers. Under applicable law, our bank subsidiary is generally permitted to make loans to one borrowing relationship up to 20% of its Tier 1 capital plus the allowance for loan losses. As of December 31, 2017, the legal lending limit of our bank subsidiary for secured loans was approximately $331.3 million. Our board of directors has established an in-house lending limit of $20.0 million to any one borrowing relationship without obtaining the approval of both our Chairman, John W. Allison, and our director Richard H. Ashley. As of December 31, 2017, we had a total of $3.60 billion, or 34.8% of our total loans, committed to the aggregate group of borrowers whose total debt exceeds the established in-house lending limit of $20.0 million.. 33. Table of Contents. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures.. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through local deposits, and we have a base of lower cost transaction deposits. Generally, we believe local deposits are a more stable source of funds than other borrowings because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders. In addition, local deposits reflect a mix of transaction and time deposits, whereas brokered deposits typically are less stable time deposits, which may need to be replaced with higher cost funds. Our costs of funds and our profitability and liquidity are likely to be adversely affected if and to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional lenders or brokers to fund loan demand or liquidity needs, and changes in our deposit mix and growth could adversely affect our profitability and the ability to expand our loan portfolio.. The loss of key officers may materially and adversely affect us.. Our success depends significantly on our Chairman, John W. Allison, and our executive officers, especially C. Randall Sims, Brian S. Davis, J. Stephen Tipton and Kevin D. Hester plus Centennial Bank Chief Executive Officer and President, Tracy M. French, and our regional Centennial Bank presidents. Centennial Bank, in particular, relies heavily on its management team's relationships in its local communities to generate business. The loss of services from a member of our current management team may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. The value of securities in our investment portfolio may decline in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, we owned $1.89 billion of investment securities. The fair value of our investment securities may be adversely affected by market conditions, including changes in interest rates, and the occurrence of any events adversely affecting the issuer of particular securities in our investments portfolio. We analyze our securities on a quarterly basis to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting issuers, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairment in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our recent results do not indicate our future results and may not provide guidance to assess the risk of an investment in our common stock.. We are unlikely to sustain our historical rate of growth, and may not even be able to expand our business at all. Further, our recent growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we are not able to successfully grow our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We may not be able to raise the additional capital we need to grow and, as a result, our ability to expand our operations could be materially impaired.. Federal and state regulatory authorities require us and our bank subsidiary to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. While we believe that our existing capital (which well exceeds the federal and state capital requirements) will be sufficient to support our current operations, anticipated expansion and potential acquisitions, factors such as faster than anticipated growth, reduced earnings levels, operating losses, changes in economic conditions, revisions in regulatory requirements, or additional acquisition opportunities may lead us to seek additional capital.. 34. Table of Contents. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on our financial performance and on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. If we need additional capital but cannot raise it on terms acceptable to us, our ability to expand our operations could be materially impaired, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected, and our stock price may decline.. Our growth and expansion strategy may not be successful and our market value and profitability may suffer.. Growth through the acquisition of banks, including FDIC-assisted transactions, and de novo branching represent important components of our business strategy. Acquisitions are subject to regulatory approval, and we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain approval for a proposed acquisition in a timely manner or at all. Any future acquisitions we might make will also be accompanied by other risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include, among other things:. <U+0095>   credit risk associated with the acquired bank's loans and investments;. <U+0095>   the use of inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets;. <U+0095>   the potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities related to the acquisition;. <U+0095>   the time and expense required to integrate an acquisition;. <U+0095>   the effectiveness of integrating operations, personnel and customers;. <U+0095>   risks of impairment to goodwill or other than temporary impairment; and. <U+0095>   potential disruption of our ongoing business.. We expect that competition for suitable acquisition candidates may be significant. We may compete with other banks or financial service companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets on acceptable terms and conditions.. We may continue to have opportunities from time to time to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. These acquisitions involve risks similar to acquiring existing banks even though the FDIC might provide assistance to mitigate certain risks such as sharing in exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution. However, because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time normally associated with preparing for integration of an acquired institution, we may face additional risks in FDIC-assisted transactions. These risks include, among other things, the loss of customers, strain on management resources related to collection and management of problem loans and problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems.. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, as opportunities arise, we may grow through de novo branching. De novo branching and any acquisition carry with them numerous risks, including the following:. <U+0095>   the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals;. <U+0095>   the significant upfront costs and anticipated operating losses associated with establishing a de novo branch or a new bank;. <U+0095>   the inability to secure the services of qualified senior management;. <U+0095>   the local market receptivity for branches established or banks acquired outside of those markets in which we currently maintain a material presence;. <U+0095>   the local economic conditions within the market to be served by the de novo branch or new bank;. <U+0095>   the inability to obtain attractive locations within a new market at a reasonable cost; and. <U+0095>   the additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls.. 35. Table of Contents. We cannot assure that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions (including FDIC-assisted transactions) and de novo branching. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and maintain our market value and profitability.. There may be undiscovered risks or losses associated with our bank acquisitions which would have a negative impact upon our future income.. Our growth strategy includes strategic acquisitions of banks. We have acquired 22 banks since we started our first subsidiary bank in 1999, including a total of 17 banks since 2010. We will continue to consider strategic acquisitions, with a primary focus on Arkansas, Florida, South Alabama and other nearby markets. In most cases, our acquisition of a bank includes the acquisition of all or a substantial portion of the target bank's assets and liabilities, including all or a substantial portion of its loan portfolio. There may be instances when we, under our normal operating procedures, may find after the acquisition that there may be additional losses or undisclosed liabilities with respect to the assets and liabilities of the target bank, and, with respect to its loan portfolio, that the ability of a borrower to repay a loan may have become impaired, the quality of the value of the collateral securing a loan may fall below our standards, or our determination of the fair value of any such loan may be inadequate. One or more of these factors might cause us to have additional losses or liabilities, additional loan charge-offs, or increases in allowances for loan losses, which would have a negative impact upon our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in national and local economic conditions could lead to higher loan charge-offs in connection with our acquisitions.. In connection with our acquisitions since 2010, we have acquired a significant portfolio of loans. Although we marked down the loan portfolios we have acquired, there is no assurance that the non-impaired loans we acquired will not become impaired or that the impaired loans will not suffer further deterioration in value resulting in additional charge-offs to the acquired loan portfolio. Fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential and commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs we make to our loan portfolio, and, may consequently, reduce our net income. Such fluctuations may also increase the level of charge-offs on the loan portfolios we have acquired in the acquisitions and correspondingly reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur.. If the goodwill that we recorded in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could require charges to earnings.. When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is generally allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. At December 31, 2017, our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were $977.3 million. Under current accounting standards, if we determine goodwill or intangible assets are impaired because, for example, the acquired business does not meet projected revenue targets or certain key employees leave, we are required to write down the carrying value of these assets. We conduct a review at least annually to determine whether goodwill is impaired. Our annual goodwill impairment evaluation performed during the fourth quarter of 2017 indicated no impairment of goodwill for our reporting segments. We cannot provide assurance, however, that we will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have an adverse effect on our shareholders' equity and financial results and could cause a decline in our stock price.. 36. Table of Contents. Our acquisitions have caused us to modify our disclosure controls and procedures, which may not result in the material information that we are required to disclose in our SEC reports being recorded, processed, summarized, and reported timely.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to cause the material information that we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act to be recorded, processed, summarized, and reported to the extent applicable within the time periods required by the SEC's rules and forms. As a result of our acquisitions, we may implement changes to processes, information technology systems and other components of internal control over financial reporting as part of our integration activities. Notwithstanding any changes to our disclosure controls and procedures resulting from our evaluation of the same after the acquisition, our control systems, no matter how well designed and operated, may not result in the material information that we are required to disclose in our SEC reports being recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within required time periods. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. If, as a result of our acquisitions or otherwise, we are unable to achieve and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, investors and customers may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, we may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violate listing standards, and the market price of our common stock could decline.. Competition from other financial institutions and financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability.. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. We experience strong competition, not only from commercial banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions, but also from mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial services providers operating in or near our market areas. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans.. Many of our competitors are much larger national and regional financial institutions. We may face a competitive disadvantage against them as a result of our smaller size and resources and our lack of geographic diversification. Due to their size, larger competitors can achieve economies of scale and may offer a broader range of products and services or more attractive pricing than us. If we are unable to offer competitive products and services, our business may be negatively affected. Many of our competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation that we are as an FDIC-insured institution, which gives them greater operating flexibility and reduces their expenses relative to ours. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services.. We also compete against community banks that have strong local ties. These smaller institutions are likely to cater to the same small and mid-sized businesses that we target and to use a relationship-based approach similar to ours. In addition, our competitors may seek to gain market share by pricing below the current market rates for loans and paying higher rates for deposits. The banking business in our primary market areas is very competitive, and the level of competition facing us may increase further, which may limit our asset growth and financial results.. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements and innovations.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services, including innovative ways that customers can make payments or manage their accounts, such as through the use of digital wallets or digital currencies. In addition to better serving customers, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients, which may adversely affect our results of operations and future prospects.. 37. Table of Contents. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems, or those of our third party service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, result in unintentional disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.. As a financial institution, our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. Any failure, interruption or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our online banking system, customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit and loan servicing and other systems. The security and integrity of our systems could be threatened by a variety of interruptions or information security breaches, including those caused by computer hacking, cyber-attacks, electronic fraudulent activity or attempted theft of financial assets. We cannot assure you that any such failures, interruption or security breaches will not occur, or if they do occur that they will be adequately addressed. While we have certain protective policies and procedures in place, the nature and sophistication of the threats continue to evolve. We may be required to expend significant additional resources in the future to modify and enhance our protective measures.. Additionally, we face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems. Any failures, interruptions or security breaches in our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, or expose us to civil litigation, regulatory fines or losses not covered by insurance.. Future hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on us.. As illustrated by the impact of Hurricane Irma, our markets in Alabama and Florida, like other coastal areas, are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes or other weather events will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties or other collateral securing our loans and an increase in the delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of hurricanes or other significant weather events.. We may incur environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate and could become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. In addition, we acquire branches and real estate in connection with our acquisitions of banks. We may become responsible to a governmental agency or third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with environmental investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. If we were to become subject to significant environmental liabilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 38. Table of Contents. Our operations could be interrupted if certain external vendors on which we rely experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking laws and regulations.. We depend to a significant extent on relationships with third party service providers. Specifically, we utilize third party core banking services and receive credit card and debit card services, branch capture services, Internet banking services and services complementary to our banking products from various third party service providers. If these third party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services and we are unable to replace them with other service providers, our operations could be interrupted. It may be difficult for us to replace some of our third party vendors, particularly vendors providing our core banking, credit card and debit card services, in a timely manner if they were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future for any reason. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Even if we are able to replace them, it may be at higher cost to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if a third party provider fails to provide the services we require, fails to meet contractual requirements, such as compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or suffers a cyber-attack or other security breach, our business could suffer economic and reputational harm that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our earnings could be adversely impacted by incidences of fraud and compliance failure.. Financial institutions are inherently exposed to fraud risk. A fraud can be perpetrated by a customer of our bank subsidiary, an employee, a vendor, or members of the general public. We are most subject to fraud and compliance risk in connection with the origination of loans, ACH transactions, wire transactions, ATM transactions, and checking transactions. Our largest fraud risk, associated with the origination of loans, includes the intentional misstatement of information in property appraisals or other underwriting documentation provided to us by third parties. Compliance risk is the risk that loans are not originated in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our standards. There can be no assurance that we can prevent or detect acts of fraud or violation of law or our compliance standards by the third parties that we deal with. Repeated incidences of fraud or compliance failures would adversely impact the performance of our loan portfolio.. Risks Related to Our Acquisition of Stonegate Bank. Our financial results and condition could be adversely affected if we fail to realize the expected benefits of the Stonegate acquisition or it takes longer than expected to realize those benefits.. Following our acquisition of Stonegate Bank (\"Stonegate\") on September 26, 2017, we began the process of integrating the businesses of Stonegate. We have plans to complete the overall integration of the two businesses during the first quarter of 2018. This integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing businesses and the loss of customers and their business and deposits. It may also divert management attention and resources from other operations and limit our ability to pursue other acquisitions. There is no assurance that we will realize the cost savings and other financial benefits of the acquisition when and in the amounts expected.. We may incur losses on loans, securities and other acquired assets of Stonegate that are materially greater than reflected in our fair value adjustments.. As of December 31, 2017, we have recorded at fair value all credit-impaired loans acquired in the merger of Stonegate Bank into Centennial Bank based on a discounted cash flow methodology that considered factors including the type of loan and related collateral, classification status, fixed or variable interest rate, term of loan and whether or not the loan was amortizing, and current discount rates. The discount rates used for loans are based on current market rates for new originations of comparable loans and include adjustments for liquidity concerns. We may not realize the estimated cash flows or fair value of these loans. In addition, although the difference between the pre-merger carrying value of the credit-impaired loans and their expected cash flows - the \"non-accretable difference\" - is available to absorb future charge-offs, we may be required to increase our allowance for credit losses and related provision expense because of subsequent additional credit deterioration in these loans.. 39. Table of Contents. Our banking relationships with the Cuban government and Banco Internacional de Comercia, S.A. (\"BICSA\") as a result of our Stonegate acquisition may increase our compliance risk and compliance costs.. U.S. persons, including U.S. banks, are restricted in their ability to establish relationships and engage in transactions with Cuba and Cuban persons pursuant to the existing U.S. embargo and the Cuban Assets Control Regulations. However, we maintain a customer relationship to handle the accounts for Cuba's diplomatic missions at the United Nations and for the Cuban Interests Section (now the Cuban Embassy) in Washington, D.C. This relationship was established in May 2015 pursuant to a special license granted to Stonegate Bank by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\") in connection with the reestablishment of diplomatic relations between the U.S. and Cuba. In July 2015, Stonegate Bank established a correspondent banking relationship with Banco Internacional de Comercio, S.A. (\"BICSA\") in Havana, Cuba.. Cross-border correspondent banking relationships pose unique risks because they create situations in which a U.S. financial institution will be handling funds from a foreign financial institution whose customers may not be transparent to the U.S. financial institution. Moreover, Cuban financial institutions are not subject to the same or similar regulatory guidelines as U.S. banks; therefore, these foreign institutions may pose a higher money laundering risk to their respective U.S. bank correspondent(s). Investigations have determined that, in the past, foreign correspondent accounts have been used by drug traffickers and other criminal elements to launder funds. Shell companies are sometimes used in the layering process to hide the true ownership of accounts at foreign correspondent financial institutions. Because of the large amount of funds, multiple transactions, and the U.S. bank's potential lack of familiarity with a foreign correspondent financial institution's customer, criminals and terrorists can more easily conceal the source and use of illicit funds. Consequently, we may have a higher risk of noncompliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and Anti-Money Laundering (\"BSA/AML\") rules due to its new correspondent banking relationship with BICSA and will likely need to more closely monitor transactions related to correspondent accounts in Cuba, potentially resulting in increased compliance costs. Our failure to strictly adhere to the terms and requirements of our OFAC license or our failure to adequately manage our BSA/AML compliance risk in light of our new correspondent banking relationship with BICSA could result in regulatory or other actions being taken against us, which could significantly increase our compliance costs and materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock. The rights of our common shareholders are subordinate to the holders of any debt securities that we may issue from time to time and may be subordinate to the holders of any series of preferred stock that may issue in the future.. On April 3, 2017, we issued $300.0 million of 5.625% fixed-to-floating rate subordinated notes, which mature in 2027. Because these subordinated notes are senior to our shares of common stock, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the subordinated notes must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of our common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, we also have $73.3 million of outstanding subordinated debentures issued in connection with trust preferred securities. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are unconditionally guaranteed by us. The subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of our capital stock. If we elect to defer or if we default with respect to our obligations to make payments on these subordinated debentures, this would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock.. 40. Table of Contents. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue in the aggregate up to 5,500,000 shares of preferred stock, and to incur senior or subordinated indebtedness, generally without shareholder approval. Our preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights that may be superior to the rights of our common stock. In addition, like our outstanding subordinated debentures, any future indebtedness that we incur would be expected to be senior to our common stock with respect to payment upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Accordingly, common shareholders bear the risk that our future issuances of debt or equity securities or our incurrence of other borrowings will negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. We may be unable to, or choose not to, pay dividends on our common stock.. Although we have paid a quarterly dividend on our common stock since 2003 and expect to continue this practice, we cannot assure you of our ability to continue. Our ability to pay dividends depends on the following factors, among others:. <U+0095>   We may not have sufficient earnings since our primary source of income, the payment of dividends to us by our bank subsidiary, is subject to federal and state laws that limit the ability of that bank to pay dividends.. <U+0095>   Federal Reserve Board policy requires bank holding companies to pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization's expected future needs and financial condition.. <U+0095>   Before dividends may be paid on our common stock in any year, payments must be made on our subordinated debentures.. <U+0095>   Our board of directors may determine that, even though funds are available for dividend payments, retaining the funds for internal uses, such as expansion of our operations, is a better strategy.. If we fail to pay dividends, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be the sole opportunity for gains on an investment in our common stock. In addition, in the event our bank subsidiary becomes unable, due to regulatory restrictions, capital planning needs or otherwise, to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from our bank subsidiary could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of your investment in our common stock.. Our stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors.. Although shares of our common stock are listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the average daily trading volume in the common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the daily average trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of the common stock in a brief period of time, or the expectation of these sales, could cause a decline in the price of our common stock."
