[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. In the course of conducting its business operations, we are exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the financial services industry and others of which are more specific to its own business. The following discussion addresses the most significant risks that could affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and capital position. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely effected. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline.. Risk relating to our business. Economic conditions in the markets in which we operate may adversely affect our loan portfolio and reduce the demand for our services. We focus our business primarily in Korean-American communities in California, the greater New York City, Chicago, Houston and Dallas, and Seattle metropolitan areas, New Jersey, Virginia, Alabama, and Georgia. Adverse economic conditions in our market areas could potentially have a material adverse impact on the quality of our business. A renewed economic slowdown in the markets in which we operate currently and in the future may have any or all of the following consequences, any of which may reduce our net income and adversely affect our financial condition:. • loan delinquencies may increase;. • problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. • the level and duration of deposits may decline;. • demand for our products and services may decline; and. • collateral for loans may decline in value below the principal amount owed by the borrower.. We have a high level of loans secured by real estate collateral. A downturn in the real estate market may seriously impair our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 77% of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by various types of real estate. Following the financial crisis of 2008, there was a general slowdown in the economy and declines in the value of real estate. Although the economy has rebounded and real estate prices have gradually recovered from their earlier low levels, it is possible that there will be renewed deterioration in the real estate market generally and in commercial real estate values in particular. Such developments may result in additional loan charge-offs and provisions for loan losses, which may have a material and adverse effect on our net income and capital levels.. Our commercial loan and commercial real estate loan portfolios expose us to risks that may be greater than the risks related to our other loans. Our loan portfolio includes commercial loans and commercial real estate loans, which are secured by hotels and motels, shopping/retail centers, service station and car wash, industrial and warehouse properties, and other types of commercial properties. Commercial and commercial real estate loans carry more risk as compared to other types of lending, because they typically involve larger loan balances often concentrated with a single borrower or groups of related borrowers.. Accordingly, charge-offs on commercial and commercial real estate loans may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. In addition, these loans expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate. The payment experience on commercial real estate loans that are secured by income producing properties are typically dependent on the successful operation of the related real estate project and thus, may subject us to adverse conditions in the real estate market or to the general economy. The collateral securing these loans typically cannot be liquidated as easily as residential real estate. If we foreclose on these loans, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than residential properties because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral.. Unexpected deterioration in the credit quality of our commercial or commercial real estate loan portfolios would require us to increase our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. In addition, with respect to commercial real estate loans, federal and state banking regulators are examining commercial real estate lending activity with heightened scrutiny and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement more stringent underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. Because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial real estate loans, the banking regulators may require us to maintain higher levels of capital than we would otherwise be expected to maintain, which could limit our ability to leverage our capital and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 14. Table of Contents. Our allowance for loan losses may not cover actual loan losses. If our actual loan losses exceed the amount we have allocated for estimated probable incurred losses, our business will be adversely affected. We attempt to limit the risk that borrowers will fail to repay loans by carefully underwriting our loans, but losses nevertheless occur in the ordinary course of business operations.  We create allowances for estimated loan losses through provisions that are recorded as reductions in income in our accounting records. We base these allowances on estimates of the following:. • historical experience with our loans;. • evaluation of current economic conditions and other factors;. • reviews of the quality, mix and size of the overall loan portfolio;. • reviews of delinquencies; and. • the quality of the collateral underlying our loans.. If our allowance estimates are inadequate, we may incur losses, our financial condition may be materially and adversely affected and we may be required to try and raise additional capital to enhance our capital position. In addition, various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the adequacy of our allowance. These agencies may require us to establish additional allowances based on their judgment of the information available at the time of their examinations. No assurance can be given that we will not sustain loan losses in excess of present or future levels of the allowance for loan losses or that regulatory agencies will not require us to increase our allowance thereby impacting our profitability.. Changes in interest rates affect our profitability. The interest rate risk inherent in our lending, investing, and deposit taking activities is a significant market risk to us and our business. We derive our income mainly from the difference or \"spread\" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. In general, the wider the spread, the more net interest income we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can greatly affect our income. In addition, interest rate fluctuations can affect how much money we may be able to lend. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in minimizing the potentially adverse effects of changes in interest rates.. If we lose key employees, our business may suffer. There is intense competition for experienced and highly qualified personnel in the Korean-American banking industry and the banking industry more broadly. Our future success depends on the continued employment of existing senior management personnel. If we lose key employees temporarily or permanently, it may hurt our business. We may be particularly hurt if our key employees, including any of our executive officers, became employed by our competitors in the Korean-American banking industry.. Environmental laws may force us to pay for environmental problems. The cost of cleaning up or paying damages and penalties associated with environmental problems may increase our operating expenses. When a borrower defaults on a loan secured by real property, we often purchase the property in foreclosure or accept a deed to the property surrendered by the borrower.  We may also take over the management of commercial properties whose owners have defaulted on loans. We also lease premises where our branches and other facilities are located, all where environmental problems may exist. Although we have lending, foreclosure and facilities guidelines that are intended to exclude properties with an unreasonable risk of contamination, hazardous substances may exist on some of the properties that we own, lease, manage or occupy. We may face the risk that environmental laws may force us to clean up the properties at our expense. The cost of cleaning up a property may exceed the value of the property.  We may also be liable for pollution generated by a borrower's operations if we take a role in managing those operations after a default. We may find it difficult or impossible to sell contaminated properties.. We are exposed to the risks of natural disasters. A significant portion of our operations is concentrated in Southern California, which is an earthquake and fire prone region. A major earthquake or fire may result in material loss to us. A significant percentage of our loans are and will be secured by real estate. Many of our borrowers may suffer uninsured property damage, experience interruption of their businesses or lose their jobs after an earthquake or fire. Those borrowers might not be able to repay their loans, and the collateral for such loans may decline significantly in value. Unlike a bank with operations that are more geographically diversified, we are vulnerable to greater losses if an earthquake, fire, flood, mudslide or other natural catastrophe occurs in Southern California.. An increase in nonperforming assets would reduce our income and increase our expenses. If the level of nonperforming assets increases in the future, it may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Nonperforming assets are mainly loans on which the borrowers are not making their required payments. Nonperforming assets also include loans that have been restructured to permit the borrower to make payments and real estate that has been acquired through foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure of unpaid loans. To the extent that assets are nonperforming, we have less earning assets generating interest income and an increase in credit related expenses, including provisions for loan losses.. We may experience adverse effects from acquisitions. We have acquired other banking companies and bank offices in the past, and will consider additional acquisitions as opportunities arise. If we do not adequately address the financial and operational. 15. Table of Contents. risks associated with acquisitions of other companies, we may incur material unexpected costs and disruption of our business. Future acquisitions may increase the degree of such risks.. Risks involved in acquisitions of other companies include:. • the risk of failure to adequately evaluate the asset quality of the acquired company;. • difficulty in assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired company;. • diversion of management's attention from other important business activities;. • difficulty in maintaining good relations with the loan and deposit customers of the acquired company;. • inability to maintain uniform and effective operating standards, controls, procedures and policies;. • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; and. • amortization of expenses related to acquired intangible assets that have finite lives.. Liquidity risks may impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans, and other sources may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities may be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that may detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow may also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the banking industry or the general financial services industry as a whole.. Increases in the level of our problem assets, occurrence of operating losses or a failure to comply with requirements of the agencies which regulate us may result in regulatory actions against us which may materially and adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. The DBO, the FDIC, and the FRB each have authority to take actions to require that we comply with applicable regulatory capital requirements, cease engaging in what they perceive to be unsafe or unsound practices or make other changes in our business. Among others, the corrective measures that such regulatory authorities may take include requiring us to enter into informal or formal agreements regarding our operations, the issuance of cease and desist orders to refrain from engaging in unsafe and unsound practices, removal of officers and directors and the assessment of civil monetary penalties. See \"Item 1. Business  -  Supervision and Regulation\" for a further description of such regulatory powers.. Changes in accounting standards may affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes and their impacts on us can be hard to predict and may result in unexpected and materially adverse impacts on our reported financial condition and results of operations.. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches or failures of our information security controls or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation, or damage to our reputation. Such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering, and other dishonest acts. Information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us or our clients, denial or degradation of service attacks, and malware, or other cyber-. 16. Table of Contents. attacks. In recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches, and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. Consistent with industry trends, we have also experienced an increase in attempted electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents in recent periods. Moreover, in recent periods, several large corporations, including financial institutions and retail companies, have suffered major data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. Some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which increase their risks of identity theft, credit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us.. Information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on the networks and systems of us, our clients and certain of our third party partners, such as our online banking or reporting systems. The secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our clients' confidence. Breaches of information security also may occur, and in infrequent cases have occurred, through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or our clients' or counterparties' confidential information, including employees. In addition, increases in criminal activity, levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. Although we have developed, and continue to invest in, systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks and periodically test our security, our inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, breaches of security could result in: losses to us or our clients; our loss of business and/or clients; damage to our reputation; the incurrence of additional expenses; disruption to our business; our inability to grow our online services or other businesses; additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties; or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability - any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. More generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Such publicity may also cause damage to our reputation as a financial institution. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We are subject to operational risks relating to our technology and information systems. The continued efficacy of our technology and information systems, related operational infrastructure and relationships with third party vendors in our ongoing operations is integral to our performance. Failure of any of these resources, including but not limited to operational or systems failures, interruptions of client service operations and ineffectiveness of or interruption in third party data processing or other vendor support, may cause material disruptions in our business, impairment of customer relations and exposure to liability for our customers, as well as action by bank regulatory authorities.. Our business reputation is important and any damage to it may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reputation is very important for our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former, and potential clients and stockholders in the communities we serve. Any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, our conduct of our business or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on our business.. As we expand outside our California markets, we may encounter additional risks that may adversely affect us. Currently, the majority of our offices are located in California, but we also have offices in the New York City, Chicago, Houston, Dallas, and Seattle metropolitan areas, New Jersey, Virginia, Alabama, and Georgia. Over time, we may seek to establish offices to serve Korean-American communities in other parts of the United States as well. In the course of these expansion activities, we may encounter significant risks, including unfamiliarity with the characteristics and business dynamics of new markets, increased marketing and administrative expenses and operational difficulties arising from our efforts to attract business in new markets, manage operations in noncontiguous geographic markets, comply with local laws and regulations and effectively and consistently manage our non-California personnel and business. If we are unable to manage these risks, our operations may be materially and adversely affected.. 17. Table of Contents. Adverse conditions in South Korea or globally may adversely affect our business. A substantial number of our customers have economic and cultural ties to South Korea and, as a result, we are likely to feel the effects of adverse economic and political conditions there. If economic or political conditions in South Korea deteriorate, we may, among other things, be exposed to economic and transfer risk, and may experience an outflow of deposits by our customers with connections to South Korea. Transfer risk may result when an entity is unable to obtain the foreign exchange needed to meet its obligations or to provide liquidity. This may materially and adversely impact the recoverability of investments in or loans made to such entities. Adverse economic conditions in South Korea may also negatively impact asset values and the profitability and liquidity of our customers who operate in this region. In addition, a general overall decline in global economic conditions may materially and adversely affect our profitability and overall results of operations.. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make loans secured by real property does not ensure that the value of the real property collateral will be sufficient to repay our loans. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made and requires the exercise of a considerable degree of judgment. If the appraisal does not accurately reflect the amount that may be obtained upon sale or foreclosure of the property, whether due to a decline in property value after the date of the original appraisal or defective preparation of the appraisal, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property and as a result, we may suffer losses.. Governmental regulation and regulatory actions against us may further impair our operations or restrict our growth. We are subject to significant governmental supervision and regulation. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Statutes and regulations affecting our business may be changed at any time and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. In addition, regulations may be adopted which increase our deposit insurance premiums and enact special assessments which could increase expenses associated with running our business and adversely affect our earnings.. There can be no assurance that such statutes and regulations, any changes thereto or to their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. In particular, these statutes and regulations, and any changes thereto, could subject us to additional costs (including legal and compliance costs), limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. In addition to governmental supervision and regulation, we are subject to changes in other federal and state laws, including changes in tax laws, which could materially affect us and the banking industry generally. We are subject to the rules and regulations of the FRB, the FDIC and the DBO, and examination by the CFPB. In addition, we are subject to the rules and regulation of the Nasdaq Stock Market and the SEC and are subject to enforcement actions and other punitive actions by these agencies. If we fail to comply with federal and state regulations, the regulators may limit our activities or growth, impose fines on us or in the case of our bank regulators, ultimately require our bank to cease its operations. Bank regulations can hinder our ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated in the same manner or are less regulated. Federal and state bank regulatory agencies regulate many aspects of our operations. These areas include:. • the capital that must be maintained;. • the kinds of activities that can be engaged in;. • the kinds and amounts of investments that can be made;. • the locations of offices;. • insurance of deposits and the premiums that we must pay for this insurance;. • procedures and policies we must adopt;. • conditions and restrictions on our executive compensation; and. • how much cash we must set aside as reserves for deposits.. In addition, bank regulatory authorities have the authority to bring enforcement actions against banks and bank holding companies, including the Bank and Hope Bancorp, for unsafe or unsound practices in the conduct of their businesses or for violations of any law, rule or regulation, any condition imposed in writing by the appropriate bank regulatory agency or any written agreement with the authority. Enforcement actions against us could include a federal conservatorship or receivership for the bank, the issuance of additional orders that could be judicially enforced, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, the issuance of directives to enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise, with a third party, the termination of insurance of deposits, the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against institution-affiliated parties, and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. In addition, as we have grown beyond $10 billion in assets, we are subject to enhanced CFPB examination as well as required to perform more comprehensive stress-testing on our business and operations.. 18. Table of Contents. SBA lending is an important part of our business. Our SBA lending program is dependent upon the federal government, and we face specific risks associated with originating SBA loans. Our SBA lending program is dependent upon the federal government. As an SBA Preferred Lender, we enable our clients to obtain SBA loans without being subject to the potentially lengthy SBA approval process necessary for lenders that are not SBA Preferred Lenders. The SBA periodically reviews the lending operations of participating lenders to assess, among other things, whether the lender exhibits prudent risk management. When weaknesses are identified, the SBA may request corrective actions or impose enforcement actions, including revocation of the lender's Preferred Lender status. If we lose our status as a Preferred Lender, we may lose some or all of our customers to lenders who are SBA Preferred Lenders, and as a result we could experience a material adverse effect to our financial results. Any changes to the SBA program, including changes to the level of guarantee provided by the federal government on SBA loans, may also have a material adverse effect on our business.. We generally sell the guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) loans in the secondary market. These sales have resulted in both premium income for us at the time of sale, and created a stream of future servicing income. We may not be able to continue originating these loans or selling them in the secondary market. Furthermore, even if we are able to continue originating and selling SBA 7(a) loans in the secondary market, we might not continue to realize premiums upon the sale of the guaranteed portion of these loans. When we sell the guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) loans, we incur credit risk on the non-guaranteed portion of the loans, and if a customer defaults on the non-guaranteed portion of a loan, we share any loss and recovery related to the loan pro-rata with the SBA. If the SBA establishes that a loss on an SBA guaranteed loan is attributable to significant technical deficiencies in the manner in which the loan was originated, funded or serviced by us, the SBA may seek recovery of the principal loss related to the deficiency from us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The laws, regulations and standard operating procedures that are applicable to SBA loan products may change in the future. We cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies and especially our organization, changes in the laws, regulations and procedures applicable to SBA loans could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably.. Our stock price may be volatile, which may result in substantial losses for our stockholders. The market price of our common stock may be subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including:. • issuing new equity securities;. • the amount of our common stock outstanding and the trading volume of our stock;. • actual or anticipated changes in our future financial performance;. • changes in financial performance estimates by us or by securities analysts;. • competitive developments, including announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services or  acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • the operating and stock performance of our competitors;. • changes in interest rates;. • changes in key personnel;. • changes in economic conditions that affect the Bank's performance; and. • changes in legislation or regulations that affect the Bank.. We may raise additional capital, which could have a dilutive effect on the existing holders of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We periodically evaluate opportunities to access capital markets, taking into account our financial condition, regulatory capital ratios, business strategies, anticipated asset growth and other relevant considerations. It is possible that future acquisitions, organic growth or changes in regulatory capital requirements could require us to increase the amount or change the composition of our current capital, including our common equity. For all of these reasons and others, and always subject to market conditions, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other capital securities in public or private transactions.. The issuance of additional common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive or other rights that would entitle them to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in dilution of the ownership interests of our stockholders.. Our ability to declare and pay dividends in the future, as well as the ability of the Bank to make dividend payments to us, will be subject to regulatory, statutory and other restrictions. There can be no assurance that we will continue payment of regular cash dividends. Our ability to pay dividends at that time will be subject to statutory and other limitations applicable to us or to the Bank.. 19. Table of Contents. Our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected as a result of future impairment of our intangible assets. Future acquisitions could result in increases in the amount of our goodwill or other intangible assets. We assess the carrying value of intangible assets, including goodwill, at least annually in order to determine whether such assets are impaired. We make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets is less than its carrying amount.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and business would be harmed. In addition, failure in our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could cause us to fail to meet the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market and, as a result, adversely impact the liquidity and trading price of our securities.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and applicable federal and state law may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Various provisions of our charter documents could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. These include, among other things, advance notice requirements to submit stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings and the authorization to issue \"blank check\" preferred stock by action of the Board of Directors acting alone, thus without obtaining stockholder approval. In addition, applicable provisions of federal and state law require regulatory approval in connection with certain acquisitions of our common stock and supermajority voting provisions in connection with certain transactions. In particular, both federal and state law limit the acquisition of ownership of, generally, 10% or more of our common stock without providing prior notice to the regulatory agencies and obtaining prior regulatory approval or non-objection or being able to rely on an exemption from such requirement. Collectively, these provisions of our charter documents and applicable federal and state law may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock.. Our common stock is equity and therefore is subordinate to our subsidiaries' indebtedness and preferred stock. Our common stock constitutes equity interests and does not constitute indebtedness. As such, common stock will rank junior to all current and future indebtedness and other non-equity claims on us with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us, including in the event of our liquidation. We may, and the bank and our other subsidiaries may also, incur additional indebtedness from time to time and may increase our aggregate level of outstanding indebtedness. Additionally, holders of common stock are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of any holders of our preferred stock that may be outstanding from time to time. The Board of Directors is authorized to cause us to issue additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. If we issue preferred shares in the future that have a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, then the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected.. Our common stock is not insured and you could lose the value of your entire investment. An investment in our common stock is not a deposit and is not insured against loss by any government agency.. We may fail to realize cost savings from the Wilshire merger. Although we expect to realize cost savings from the merger when fully phased in, it is possible that these potential cost savings may not be realized fully or realized at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. For example, future business developments may require us to continue to operate or maintain some facilities or support functions that are currently expected to be combined or reduced. Cost savings also depend on our ability to combine the businesses of the Company and Wilshire in a manner that permits those costs savings to be realized. If we are not able to combine the two companies successfully, these anticipated cost savings may not be fully realized or realized at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and stock price.. Impairment of goodwill resulting prior mergers and acquisitions may adversely affect our results of operations. Goodwill of approximately $464.5 million and core deposits intangibles of $16.5 million were recorded as a result of prior mergers and acquisitions. Potential impairment of goodwill and amortization of other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We assess our goodwill and other intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment annually and more frequently when required by generally accepted accounting principles. We are required to record an impairment charge if circumstances indicate that the asset carrying values exceed their fair values. Our assessment of goodwill, other intangible assets, or long-lived assets could indicate that an impairment of the carrying value of such assets may have occurred that could result in a material, non-cash write-down of such assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and future earnings.. 20. Table of Contents. Implementation of the various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act-in particular provisions that are applicable to banks and bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in assets-may delay the receipt of regulatory approvals and increase our operating costs or otherwise have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and stock price. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") enacted in 2010 significantly changes the bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and the rule-making process is still underway.. Several requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act for new banking regulations are applicable to certain banks and bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in assets. As a result of the merger, we surpassed this threshold, and these provisions, subject to a phase in period, will significantly increase compliance and operating costs and otherwise may have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Such provisions include the following:. • The Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (\"CFPB\"), which has broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets, and accordingly has assumed examination and enforcement authority over us post-merger.. • The Dodd-Frank Act increased the authority of the FRB to examine us and our non-bank subsidiaries and gave the FRB the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for an electronic debit transaction by a payment card issuer that, together with its affiliates, has assets of $10 billion or more, and to enforce a new statutory requirement that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer (the \"Durbin Amendment\"). By regulation, the FRB has limited the fees for such a transaction to the sum of 21 cents plus five basis points times the value of the transaction, plus up to one cent for fraud prevention costs. The effect of the Durbin Amendment has significantly lowered our interchange or \"swipe\" revenue, but such lower fees are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. • The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum Designated Reserve Ratio (\"DRR\"). The FDIC has determined that the DRR should be 2.0% and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum DRR of 1.35% by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect of the increase in the statutory minimum DRR to 1.35% from the former statutory minimum of 1.15% on institutions with assets less than $10 billion. As a result of the merger, we are no longer entitled to benefit from the offset.. • The Dodd-Frank Act requires a publicly traded bank holding company with $10 billion or more in assets to establish and maintain a risk committee responsible for enterprise-wide risk management practices, comprised of an independent chairman and at least one risk management expert. The risk committee must approve and periodically review the risk-management policies of the bank holding company's global operations and oversee the operations of its risk-management framework. The bank holding company's risk-management framework must be commensurate with its structure, risk profile, complexity, activities and size. These requirements will first apply to us commencing on October 1, 2018, and we will need to build the necessary infrastructure to comply with these enhanced risk management requirements well before the effective date.. • A bank holding company with more than $10 billion in assets is required under the Dodd-Frank Act to conduct annual stress tests using various scenarios established by the FRB, including a baseline, adverse and severely adverse economic conditions (known as \"Dodd-Frank Act Stress Tests\" or \"DFAST\"). The stress tests are designed to determine whether our capital planning, assessment of our capital adequacy and risk management practices, adequately protect it and its affiliates in the event of an economic downturn. We must establish adequate internal controls, documentation, policies and procedures to ensure the annual stress test adequately meets these objectives. Our Board of Directors are required to review our policies and procedures at least annually. We are also required to report the results of its annual stress tests to the FRB, and to consider the results of the stress tests as part of its capital planning and risk management practices. We will be subject to the DFAST regime commencing on January 1, 2018, but well in advance of that date, we have undertaken the planning and other actions that we deem reasonably necessary to achieve timely compliance.. It is difficult to predict the overall compliance cost of these provisions, which became effective (with phase-in periods) when the merger was consummated. Compliance with these provisions will require additional staffing, engagement of external consultants and other operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition, results of operations and stock price.. 21. Table of Contents"
