[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in this report as well as our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our ability to generate revenues from our medicines is subject to attaining significant market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payers.. Our current medicines, and other medicines or medicine candidates that we may develop or acquire, may not attain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers or the medical community. We have a limited history of commercializing medicines and most of our medicines have not been on the market for an extensive period of time, which subjects us to numerous risks as we attempt to increase our market share. We believe that the degree of market acceptance and our ability to generate revenues from our medicines will depend on a number of factors, including:. •  timing of market introduction of our medicines as well as competitive medicines;. •  efficacy and safety of our medicines;. •  continued projected growth of the markets in which our medicines compete;. •  prevalence and severity of any side effects;. 34. •  if and when we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for additional indications for our medicines;. •  acceptance by patients, primary care physicians and key specialists;. •  availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement and pricing from government and other third-party payers;. •  potential or perceived advantages or disadvantages of our medicines over alternative treatments, including cost of treatment and relative convenience and ease of administration;. •  strength of sales, marketing and distribution support;. •  the price of our medicines, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments;. •  impact of past and limitation of future medicine price increases;. •  our ability to maintain a continuous supply of medicine for commercial sale;. •  the effect of current and future healthcare laws;. •  the performance of third-party distribution partners, over which we have limited control; and. •  medicine labeling or medicine insert requirements of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or other regulatory authorities.. With respect to RAVICTI, which is approved to treat a very limited patient population, our ability to grow sales will depend in large part on our ability to transition urea cycle disorder, or UCD, patients from BUPHENYL or generic equivalents, which are comparatively much less expensive, to RAVICTI and to encourage patients and physicians to continue RAVICTI therapy once initiated. With respect to PROCYSBI, which is also approved to treat a very limited patient population, our ability to grow sales will depend in large part on our ability to transition patients from the first-generation immediate-release cysteamine therapy to PROCYSBI, to identify additional patients with nephropathic cystinosis and to encourage patients and physicians to continue therapy once initiated. With respect to ACTIMMUNE, while it is the only FDA-approved treatment for chronic granulomatous disease, or CGD, and severe, malignant osteopetrosis, or SMO, they are very rare conditions and, as a result, our ability to grow ACTIMMUNE sales will depend on our ability to access a wider patient population, obtain marketing approval for additional indications and encourage patients and physicians to continue treatment once initiated. Unless QUINSAIR is approved for marketing in additional countries, our ability to drive growth of this medicine will largely depend on expanding its use in Canada. With respect to KRYSTEXXA, our ability to grow sales will be affected by the success of our sales and marketing strategies, including our marketing efforts in nephrology, and life cycle management, including studies designed to improve the response rate to KRYSTEXXA, our proposed label update submission to the FDA relating to additional data based on post-marketing studies and investigator-initiated trials evaluating new approaches to the clinical use of KRYSTEXXA that are expected to begin enrolling patients in the first quarter of 2018, which could expand the patient population and usage of KRYSTEXXA. With respect to each of BUPHENYL, RAYOS/LODOTRA, PENNSAID 2% w/w, or PENNSAID 2%, DUEXIS and VIMOVO their higher cost compared to the generic or branded forms of their active ingredients alone may limit adoption by physicians, patients and healthcare payers. With respect to DUEXIS and VIMOVO, studies indicate that physicians do not commonly co-prescribe gastrointestinal, or GI, protective agents to high-risk patients taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs. We believe this is due in part to a lack of awareness among physicians prescribing NSAIDs regarding the risk of NSAID-induced upper GI ulcers, in addition to the inconvenience of prescribing two separate medications and patient compliance issues associated with multiple prescriptions. If physicians remain unaware of, or do not otherwise believe in, the benefits of combining GI protective agents with NSAIDs, our market opportunity for DUEXIS and VIMOVO will be limited. Some physicians may also be reluctant to prescribe DUEXIS or VIMOVO due to the inability to vary the dose of ibuprofen and naproxen, respectively, or if they believe treatment with NSAIDs or GI protective agents other than those contained in DUEXIS and VIMOVO, including those of its competitors, would be more effective for their patients. If our current medicines or any other medicine that we may seek approval for, or acquire, fail to attain market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenue to achieve or sustain profitability, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects (including, possibly, the value of our ordinary shares).. 35. Our future prospects are highly dependent on our ability to successfully formulate and execute commercialization strategies for each of our medicines. Failure to do so would adversely impact our financial condition and prospects.. A substantial majority of our resources are focused on the commercialization of our current medicines. Our ability to generate significant medicine revenues and to achieve commercial success in the near-term will initially depend almost entirely on our ability to successfully commercialize these medicines in the United States.. With respect to our rare disease medicines, RAVICTI, PROCYSBI, ACTIMMUNE, BUPHENYL, QUINSAIR and KRYSTEXXA, our commercialization strategy includes efforts to increase awareness of the rare conditions that each medicine is designed to treat, enhancing efforts to identify target patients and in certain cases pursue opportunities for label expansion and more effective use through clinical trials. With respect to RAVICTI and PROCYSBI, our strategy includes accelerating the transition of patients from first-generation therapies, and increasing the diagnosis of the associated rare conditions through patient and physician outreach. In addition, our strategy with respect to ACTIMMUNE includes pursuing label expansion for additional indications, such as for advanced urothelial carcinoma and renal cell carcinoma, and price increases, but we cannot be certain that our pricing strategy will not result in downward pressure on sales or that we or others will be able to successfully complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals in additional indications. Our strategy with respect to KRYSTEXXA includes the continued enhancement of the marketing campaign with improved immunogenicity data, continued volume growth and pricing optimization.. With respect to our primary care medicines PENNSAID 2%, DUEXIS, and VIMOVO, our strategy has more recently included entering into rebate agreements with pharmacy benefit managers, or PBMs, for certain of our primary care medicines where we believe the rebates and costs justify expanded formulary access for patients. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure additional rebate agreements on commercially reasonable terms, that expected volume growth will sufficiently offset the rebates and fees paid to PBMs or that our existing agreements with PBMs will have the intended impact on formulary access. Net pricing for PENNSAID 2%, DUEXIS and VIMOVO was significantly below expectations during the year ended December 31, 2017 as a result of higher patient assistance costs, which were due to lower-than-anticipated adoption rates of our primary care medicines onto certain healthcare plan formularies, and higher commercial rebate levels compared to our expectations. In addition, the mix of PBM healthcare plans that adopted our primary care medicines onto their formulary was more heavily weighted towards those plans for which we pay a higher commercial rebate, which resulted in higher commercial rebate costs to us than we anticipated. If we are unable to realize the expected benefits of our contractual arrangements with the PBMs we may continue to experience reductions in net sales from our primary care business unit. Also, we experienced a higher rate of managed care control in our non-contracted business during the year ended December 31, 2017, which resulted in significantly lower net pricing. For each of our primary care medicines, we expect that our commercial success will depend on our sales and marketing efforts in the United States and the impact of numerous efforts at federal, state and local levels to further reduce reimbursement and net pricing of primary care medicines.. Our strategy for RAYOS in the United States is to focus on the rheumatology indications approved for RAYOS, including our collaboration with the Alliance for Lupus Research, or ALR, to study the effect of RAYOS on the fatigue experienced by systemic lupus erythematosus, or SLE, patients.. Our overall commercialization strategy also includes plans to expand sales in Europe and other countries outside the United States directly or through distributors for certain of our orphan and rheumatology medicines. In November 2015, we received approval of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, for RAVICTI for use as an adjunctive therapy for chronic management of adult and pediatric UCD patients greater than two months of age. RAVICTI became available in Europe in the fourth quarter of 2017 through an exclusive distribution agreement with Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB, or SOBI, however we cannot guarantee we will be able to successfully implement our commercial plans for RAVICTI in Europe. Although LODOTRA is approved for marketing in countries outside the United States, to date it has only been marketed in a limited number of countries.. If any of our commercial strategies are unsuccessful or we fail to successfully modify our strategies over time due to changing market conditions, our ability to increase market share for our medicines, grow revenues and to achieve and sustain profitability will be harmed.. 36. In order to increase adoption and sales of our medicines, we will need to continue developing our commercial organization as well as recruit and retain qualified sales representatives.. Part of our strategy is to continue to build a biopharmaceutical company to successfully execute the commercialization of our medicines in the U.S. market, and in selected markets outside the United States where we have commercial rights. We may not be able to successfully commercialize our medicines in the United States or in any other territories where we have commercial rights. In order to commercialize any approved medicines, we must continue to build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities. During the second quarter of 2017, we effected a workforce reduction in the primary care business unit. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 430 sales representatives in the field, consisting of approximately 25 orphan disease sales representatives, 140 rheumatology sales specialists and 265 primary care sales representatives. We cannot be certain that we will be able to adequately market our primary care medicines following the reduction in our sales force or that we will be able to continue retaining the current members of our primary care sales force. We currently have limited resources compared to some of our competitors, and the continued development of our own commercial organization to market our medicines and any additional medicines we may acquire will be expensive and time-consuming. We also cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to successfully develop this capability.. As a result of the evolving role of various constituents in the prescription decision making process, we focus on hiring sales representatives for our primary care business unit and RAYOS with successful business to business experience. For example, we have faced challenges due to pharmacists increasingly switching a patient's intended prescription from DUEXIS and VIMOVO to a generic or over-the-counter brand of their active ingredients, despite such substitution being off-label in the case of DUEXIS and VIMOVO. We have faced similar challenges for BUPHENYL, RAYOS and PENNSAID 2% with respect to generic brands. While we believe the profile of our representatives is better suited for this evolving environment, we cannot be certain that our representatives will be able to successfully protect our market for BUPHENYL, RAYOS, PENNSAID 2%, DUEXIS and VIMOVO or that we will be able to continue attracting and retaining sales representatives with our desired profile and skills. We will also have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain commercial personnel. To the extent we rely on additional third parties to commercialize any approved medicines, we may receive less revenue than if we commercialized these medicines ourselves. In addition, we may have little or no control over the sales efforts of any third parties involved in our commercialization efforts. In the event we are unable to successfully develop and maintain our own commercial organization or collaborate with a third-party sales and marketing organization, we may not be able to commercialize our medicines and medicine candidates and execute on our business plan.. If we are unable to effectively train and equip our sales force, our ability to successfully commercialize our medicines will be harmed.. As we continue to acquire additional medicines through acquisition transactions, the members of our sales force may have limited experience promoting certain of our medicines. To the extent we employ an acquired entity's original sales forces to promote acquired medicines, we may not be successful in continuing to retain these employees and we otherwise will have limited experience marketing these medicines under our commercial organization. As a result, we are required to expend significant time and resources to train our sales force to be credible and persuasive in convincing physicians to prescribe and pharmacists to dispense our medicines. In addition, we must train our sales force to ensure that a consistent and appropriate message about our medicines is being delivered to our potential customers. Our sales representatives may also experience challenges promoting multiple medicines when we call on physicians and their office staff. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, turnover of the sales representatives that we hired or will hire, requiring us to train new sales representatives. If we are unable to effectively train our sales force and equip them with effective materials, including medical and sales literature to help them inform and educate physicians about the benefits of our medicines and their proper administration and label indication, as well as our patient access programs, our efforts to successfully commercialize our medicines could be put in jeopardy, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, share price and operations.. 37. If we cannot successfully implement our patient access programs or increase formulary access and reimbursement for our medicines in the face of increasing pressure to reduce the price of medications, the adoption of our medicines by physicians, patients and payers may decline.. There continues to be immense pressure from healthcare payers, PBMs and others to use less expensive generics or over-the-counter brands instead of branded medicines. For example, some of the largest PBMs previously placed DUEXIS and VIMOVO on their formulary exclusion lists. Additional healthcare plans, including those that contract with these PBMs but use different formularies, may also choose to exclude our medicines from their formularies or restrict coverage to situations where a generic or over-the-counter medicine has been tried first. Many payers and PBMs also require patients to make co-payments for branded medicines, including many of our medicines, in order to incentivize the use of generic or other lower-priced alternatives instead. Legislation enacted in most states in the United States allows, or in some instances mandates, that a pharmacist dispenses an available generic equivalent when filling a prescription for a branded medicine, in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician. Because our medicines (other than BUPHENYL) do not currently have FDA-approved generic equivalents in the United States, we do not believe our medicines should be subject to mandatory generic substitution laws. However, we understand that some pharmacies may attempt to obtain physician authorization to switch prescriptions for DUEXIS or VIMOVO to prescriptions for multiple generic medicines with similar active pharmaceutical ingredients, or APIs, to ensure payment for the medicine if the physician's prescription for the branded medicine is not immediately covered by the payer, despite such substitution being off-label in the case of DUEXIS and VIMOVO. If these limitations in coverage and other incentives result in patients refusing to fill prescriptions or being dissatisfied with the out-of-pocket costs of their medications, or if pharmacies otherwise seek and receive physician authorization to switch prescriptions, not only would we lose sales on prescriptions that are ultimately not filled, but physicians may be dissuaded from writing prescriptions for our medicines in the first place in order to avoid potential patient non-compliance or dissatisfaction over medication costs, or to avoid spending the time and effort of responding to pharmacy requests to switch prescriptions.. Part of our commercial strategy to increase adoption and access to our medicines in the face of these incentives to use generic alternatives is to offer physicians the opportunity to have patients fill prescriptions through independent pharmacies participating in our HorizonCares patient access program. Through HorizonCares, financial assistance may be available to reduce eligible patients' out-of-pocket costs for prescriptions filled. Because of this assistance, eligible patients' out-of-pocket cost for our medicines when dispensed through HorizonCares may be significantly lower than such costs when our medicines are dispensed outside of the HorizonCares program. However, to the extent physicians do not direct prescriptions currently filled through traditional pharmacies, including those associated with or controlled by PBMs, to pharmacies participating in our HorizonCares program, we may experience a significant decline in PENNSAID 2%, DUEXIS and VIMOVO prescriptions. Our ability to increase utilization of our patient access programs will depend on physician and patient awareness and comfort with the programs, and we have limited ability to influence whether physicians use our patient access programs to prescribe our medicines or whether patients will agree to receive our medicines through our HorizonCares program. In addition, the HorizonCares program is not available to federal health care program (such as Medicare and Medicaid) beneficiaries. We have also contracted with certain PBMs and other payers to secure formulary status and reimbursement for certain of our primary care medicines, which generally require us to pay administrative fees and rebates to the PBMs and other payers for qualifying prescriptions. While we have business relationships with two of the largest PBMs, Express Scripts and CVS Caremark, that have resulted in DUEXIS and VIMOVO being removed from the Express Scripts and CVS Caremark exclusion lists starting in 2017, as well as a rebate agreement with another PBM, Prime Therapeutics LLC, and we believe these agreements will secure formulary status for certain of our medicines, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to agree to terms with other PBMs and other payers, or that such terms will be commercially reasonable to us. Despite our agreements with PBMs, the extent of formulary status and reimbursement will ultimately depend to a large extent upon individual healthcare plan formulary decisions. If healthcare plans that contract with PBMs with which we have agreements do not adopt formulary changes recommended by the PBMs with respect to our medicines, we may not realize the expected access and reimbursement benefits from these agreements. In addition, we generally pay higher rebates for prescriptions covered under plans that adopt a PBM-chosen formulary than for plans that adopt custom formularies. Consequently, the success of our PBM contracting strategy will depend not only on our ability to expand formulary adoption among healthcare plans, but also upon the relative mix of healthcare plans that have PBM-chosen formularies versus custom formularies. During the year ended December 31, 2017, the adoption rates of our primary care medicines onto certain healthcare plan formularies were lower than we had anticipated and as a result, we incurred higher patient assistance costs than we expected, and the mix of healthcare plans adopting our primary care medicines onto their formularies was more heavily weighted towards plans that use PBM-chosen formularies, which resulted in higher rebate costs than we expected. If we are unable to realize the expected benefits of our contractual arrangements with the PBMs we may continue to experience reductions in net sales from our primary care business unit. If we are unable to increase adoption of HorizonCares for filling prescriptions of our medicines or to secure formulary status and reimbursement through arrangements with PBMs and other payers, particularly with healthcare plans that use custom formularies, our ability to achieve net sales growth for our primary care business unit would be impaired.. 38. There has been negative publicity and inquiries from Congress and enforcement authorities regarding the use of specialty pharmacies and drug pricing. Our patient access programs are not involved in the prescribing of medicines and are solely to assist in ensuring that when a physician determines one of our medicines offers a potential clinical benefit to their patients and they prescribe one for an eligible patient, financial assistance may be available to reduce the patient's out-of-pocket costs. In addition, all pharmacies that fill prescriptions for our medicines are fully independent, including those that participate in HorizonCares. We do not own or possess any option to purchase an ownership stake in any pharmacy that distributes our medicines, and our relationship with each pharmacy is non-exclusive and arm's length. All of our sales are processed through pharmacies independent of us. Despite this, the negative publicity and interest from Congress and enforcement authorities regarding specialty pharmacies may result in physicians being less willing to participate in our patient access programs and thereby limit our ability to increase patient access and adoption of our medicines.. We may also encounter difficulty in forming and maintaining relationships with pharmacies that participate in our patient access programs. We currently depend on a limited number of pharmacies participating in HorizonCares to fulfill patient prescriptions under the HorizonCares program. If these HorizonCares participating pharmacies are unable to process and fulfill the volume of patient prescriptions directed to them under the HorizonCares program, our ability to maintain or increase prescriptions for our medicines will be impaired. The commercialization of our medicines and our operating results could be affected should any of the HorizonCares participating pharmacies choose not to continue participation in our HorizonCares program or by any adverse events at any of those HorizonCares participating pharmacies. For example, pharmacies that dispense our medicines could lose contracts that they currently maintain with managed care organizations, or MCOs, including PBMs. Pharmacies often enter into agreements with MCOs. They may be required to abide by certain terms and conditions to maintain access to MCO networks, including terms and conditions that could limit their ability to participate in patient access programs like ours. Failure to comply with the terms of their agreements with MCOs could result in a variety of penalties, including termination of their agreement, which could negatively impact the ability of those pharmacies to dispense our medicines and collect reimbursement from MCOs for such medicines.. The HorizonCares program may implicate certain federal and state laws related to, among other things, unlawful schemes to defraud, excessive fees for services, tortious interference with patient contracts and statutory or common law fraud. We have a comprehensive compliance program in place to address adherence with various laws and regulations relating to the selling, marketing and manufacturing of our medicines, as well as certain third-party relationships, including pharmacies. Specifically with respect to pharmacies, the compliance program utilizes a variety of methods and tools to monitor and audit pharmacies, including those that participate in the HorizonCares program, to confirm their activities, adjudication and practices are consistent with our compliance policies and guidance. Despite our compliance efforts, to the extent the HorizonCares program is found to be inconsistent with applicable laws or the pharmacies that participate in our patient access programs do not comply with applicable laws, we may be required to restructure or discontinue such programs, terminate our relationship with certain pharmacies, or be subject to other significant penalties. In November 2015, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York requesting documents and information related to our patient access programs and other aspects of our marketing and commercialization activities. We are unable to predict how long this investigation will continue or its outcome, but we have incurred and anticipate that we may continue to incur significant costs in connection with the investigation, regardless of the outcome. We may also become subject to similar investigations by other governmental agencies or Congress. The investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office and any additional investigations of our patient access programs and sales and marketing activities may result in damages, fines, penalties, exclusion, additional reporting requirements and/or oversight or other administrative sanctions against us.. If the cost of maintaining our patient access programs increases relative to our sales revenues, we could be forced to reduce the amount of patient financial assistance that we offer or otherwise scale back or eliminate such programs, which could in turn have a negative impact on physicians' willingness to prescribe and patients' willingness to fill prescriptions of our medicines. While we believe that our arrangements with PBMs will result in broader inclusion of certain of our primary care medicines on healthcare plan formularies, and therefore increase payer reimbursement and lower our cost of providing patient access programs, these arrangements generally require us to pay administrative and rebate payments to the PBMs and/or other payers and their effectiveness will ultimately depend to a large extent upon individual healthcare plan formulary decisions that are beyond the control of the PBMs. If our arrangements with PBMs and other payers do not result in increased prescriptions and reductions in our costs to provide our patient access programs that are sufficient to offset the administrative fees and rebate payments to the PBMs and/or other payers, our financial results may continue to be harmed.. If we are unable to successfully implement our commercial plans and facilitate adoption by patients and physicians of any approved medicines through our sales, marketing and commercialization efforts, then we will not be able to generate sustainable revenues from medicine sales which will have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. 39. Coverage and reimbursement may not be available, or reimbursement may be available at only limited levels, for our medicines, which could make it difficult for us to sell our medicines profitably or to successfully execute planned medicine price increases.. Market acceptance and sales of our medicines will depend in large part on global coverage and reimbursement policies and may be affected by future healthcare reform measures, both in the United States and other key international markets. Successful commercialization of our medicines will depend in part on the availability of governmental and third-party payer reimbursement for the cost of our medicines. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement for healthcare. In particular, in the United States, private health insurers and other third-party payers often provide reimbursement for medicines and services based on the level at which the government (through the Medicare or Medicaid programs) provides reimbursement for such treatments. In the United States, the EU and other significant or potentially significant markets for our medicines and medicine candidates, government authorities and third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medicines and services, particularly for new and innovative medicines and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. Further, the increased scrutiny of prescription drug pricing practices and emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the EU will put additional pressure on medicine pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our medicine sales and results of operations. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general. These pressures may create negative reactions to any medicine price increases, or limit the amount by which we may be able to increase our medicine prices, which may adversely affect our medicine sales and results of operations.. Patients are unlikely to use our medicines unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our medicines. Third-party payers may limit coverage to specific medicines on an approved list, also known as a formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved medicines for a particular indication. Moreover, a third-party payer's decision to provide coverage for a medicine does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Additionally, one third-party payer's decision to cover a particular medicine does not ensure that other payers will also provide coverage for the medicine, or will provide coverage at an adequate reimbursement rate. Even though we have contracts with some PBMs in the United States, that does not guarantee that they will perform in accordance with the contracts, nor does that preclude them from taking adverse actions against us, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the existence of such PBM contracts does not guarantee coverage by such PBM's contracted health plans or adequate reimbursement to their respective providers for our medicines. For example, two significant PBMs placed DUEXIS and VIMOVO on their exclusion lists beginning in 2015, which has resulted in a loss of coverage for patients whose healthcare plans have adopted these PBM lists. While DUEXIS and VIMOVO were removed from the Express Scripts and CVS Caremark exclusion lists starting in 2017, we cannot guarantee that Express Scripts or CVS Caremark will not later add these medicines back to their exclusion lists or that we will be able to otherwise expand formulary access for DUEXIS and VIMOVO under health plans that contract with Express Scripts and/or CVS Caremark. Additional healthcare plan formularies may also exclude our medicines from coverage due to the actions of certain PBMs, future price increases we may implement, our use of the HorizonCares program or any other co-pay programs, or other reasons. If our strategies to mitigate formulary exclusions are not effective, these events may reduce the likelihood that physicians prescribe our medicines and increase the likelihood that prescriptions for our medicines are not filled.. Outside of the United States, the success of our medicines, including RAVICTI, PROCYSBI, QUINSAIR, LODOTRA and IMUKIN, will depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government coverage, because in many countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not covered by their government healthcare programs. We launched RAVICTI in Canada in November 2016 and RAVICTI became available in Europe in the fourth quarter of 2017 through our partnership with SOBI. PROCYSBI was launched in Canada in October 2017 and QUINSAIR was launched in Canada in December 2016. We cannot be certain that existing reimbursement in such countries will be maintained or that we will be able to secure reimbursement in additional countries. The majority of LODOTRA sales are in Germany and Italy where reimbursement has been approved. Negotiating coverage and reimbursement with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by 12 months or more. Coverage and reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our medicines on a profitable basis. In many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals, including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, revenue-related taxes and profit control, and we expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the medicine or as volumes increase. Many countries in the EU have increased the amount of discounts required on medicines, and we expect these discounts to continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of current economic conditions. As a result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to achieve or sustain profitability or expected rates of growth in revenue or results of operations. Any shortfalls in revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 40. In light of such policies and the uncertainty surrounding proposed regulations and changes in the coverage and reimbursement policies of governments and third-party payers, we cannot be sure that coverage and reimbursement will be available for any of our medicines in any additional markets or for any other medicine candidates that we may develop. Also, we cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our medicines. If coverage and reimbursement are not available or are available only at limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our medicines.. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our medicines due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals relating to outcomes and quality. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively the ACA, increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. On January 30, 2017, the White House Office of Management and Budget withdrew the draft August 2015 Omnibus Guidance document that was issued by the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, Health Resources and Services Administration, or HRSA, that addressed a broad range of topics including, among other items, the definition of a patient's eligibility for 340B drug pricing. However, as concerns continue to grow over the need for tighter oversight, there remains the possibility that HRSA or another agency under the HHS will propose a similar regulation or that Congress will explore changes to the 340B program through legislation. For example, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services has issued a final rule that would revise the Medicare hospital outpatient prospective payment system for calendar year 2018, including a new reimbursement methodology for drugs purchased under the 340B program for Medicare patients. In addition, HHS has currently set July 1, 2018, for implementation of the final rule setting forth the calculation of the ceiling price and application of civil monetary penalties under the 340B program. A material portion of KRYSEXXA prescriptions are written by healthcare providers that are eligible for 340B drug pricing and therefore any reduction in 340B pricing, whether in the form of the final rule or otherwise, or an expansion of healthcare providers eligible for 340B drug pricing, would likely have a negative impact on our net sales from KRYSTEXXA.. There may be additional pressure by payers, healthcare providers, state governments, federal regulators and Congress, to use generic drugs that contain the active ingredients found in our medicines or any other medicine candidates that we may develop or acquire. If we fail to successfully secure and maintain coverage and adequate reimbursement for our medicines or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficulty achieving market acceptance of our medicines and expected revenue and profitability which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We may also experience pressure from payers as well as state and federal government authorities concerning certain promotional approaches that we may implement such as our HorizonCares program or any other co-pay or free medicine programs whereby we assist qualified patients with certain out-of-pocket expenditures for our medicine. Certain enforcement authorities and members of Congress have initiated inquiries about co-pay assistance programs. Some state legislatures have been considering proposals that would restrict or ban co-pay coupons.  For example, legislation was recently signed into law in California that would limit the use of co-pay coupons in cases where a lower cost generic drug is available and if individual ingredients in combination therapies are available over the counter at a lower cost. It is possible that similar legislation could be proposed and enacted in additional states. If we are unsuccessful with our HorizonCares program or any other co-pay initiatives or free medicine programs, or we alternatively are unable to secure expanded formulary access through additional arrangements with PBMs or other payers, we would be at a competitive disadvantage in terms of pricing versus preferred branded and generic competitors. We may also experience financial pressure in the future which would make it difficult to support investment levels in areas such as managed care contract rebates, HorizonCares and other access tools.. We are solely dependent on third parties to commercialize certain of our medicines outside the United States. Failure of these third parties or any other third parties to successfully commercialize our medicines and medicine candidates in the applicable jurisdictions could have a material adverse effect on our business.. SOBI is our exclusive distributor for RAVICTI in Europe. Innomar Strategies Inc., or Innomar, is our exclusive distributor for RAVICTI, PROCYSBI and QUINSAIR in Canada. We rely on other third-party distributors for commercialization of BUPHENYL (known as AMMONAPS in certain European countries) in certain territories outside the United States for which we currently have rights. Mundipharma International Corporation Limited, or Mundipharma, is our exclusive distributor for LODOTRA in Europe, Asia and Latin America. We have limited contractual rights to force these third parties to invest significantly in commercialization of these medicines in our markets. In the event that SOBI, Innomar, our current ex-U.S. distributors for BUPHENYL, Mundipharma, or any other third party with any future commercialization. 41. rights to any of our medicines or medicine candidates fail to adequately commercialize those medicines or medicine candidates because they lack adequate financial or other resources, decide to focus on other initiatives or otherwise, our ability to successfully commercialize our medicines or medicine candidates in the applicable jurisdictions would be limited, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We have had disagreements with Mundipharma under our European agreements and may continue to have disagreements, which could harm commercialization of LODOTRA in Europe or result in the termination of our agreements with Mundipharma. In addition, our agreements with SOBI, Innomar, our current ex-U.S. distributors for BUPHENYL and Mundipharma, may be terminated by either party in the event of a bankruptcy of the other party or upon an uncured material breach by the other party. If these third parties terminated their agreements, we may not be able to secure an alternative distributor in the applicable territory on a timely basis or at all, in which case our ability to generate revenues from the sale of RAVICTI, PROCYSBI, BUPHENYL, QUINSAIR or LODOTRA, outside the United States would be materially harmed.. Our medicines are subject to extensive regulation, and we may not obtain additional regulatory approvals for our medicines.. The clinical development, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution and other possible activities relating to our medicines and our medicine candidates are, and will be, subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Failure to comply with FDA and other applicable regulatory requirements may, either before or after medicine approval, subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions.. To market any drugs or biologics outside of the United States, we and current or future collaborators must comply with numerous and varying regulatory and compliance related requirements of other countries. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional medicine testing and additional administrative review periods, including obtaining reimbursement and pricing approval in select markets. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks associated with FDA approval as well as additional, presently unanticipated, risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others.. Applications for regulatory approval, including a marketing authorization application, or MAA, for marketing new drugs in Europe, must be supported by extensive clinical and pre-clinical data, as well as extensive information regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC, to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the applicable medicine candidate. The number and types of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for regulatory approval varies depending on the medicine candidate, the disease or the condition that the medicine candidate is designed to target and the regulations applicable to any particular medicine candidate. Despite the time and expense associated with pre-clinical and clinical studies, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to repeat or perform additional pre-clinical studies, CMC studies or clinical trials. Regulatory authorities could delay, limit or deny approval of a medicine candidate for many reasons, including because they:. •  may not deem a medicine candidate to be adequately safe and effective;. •  may not find the data from pre-clinical studies, CMC studies and clinical trials to be sufficient to support a claim of safety and efficacy;. •  may interpret data from pre-clinical studies, CMC studies and clinical trials significantly differently than we do;. •  may not approve the manufacturing processes or facilities associated with our medicine candidates;. •  may conclude that we have not sufficiently demonstrated long-term stability of the formulation for which we are seeking marketing approval;. •  may change approval policies (including with respect to our medicine candidates' class of drugs) or adopt new regulations; or. •  may not accept a submission due to, among other reasons, the content or formatting of the submission.. 42. Even if we believe that data collected from our pre-clinical studies, CMC studies and clinical trials of our medicine candidates are promising and that our information and procedures regarding CMC are sufficient, our data may not be sufficient to support marketing approval by regulatory authorities, or regulatory interpretation of these data and procedures may be unfavorable. Even if approved, medicine candidates may not be approved for all indications requested and such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the medicine may be marketed, restricted distribution methods or other limitations. Our business and reputation may be harmed by any failure or significant delay in obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of any of our medicine candidates. We cannot predict when or whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any medicine candidate we develop.. With respect to QUINSAIR, the FDA indicated in previous written and verbal communications with Raptor Pharmaceutical Corp., or Raptor, and with the drug's previous sponsor, that it believed the data submitted in connection with EMA's subsequent approval of QUINSAIR for the management of chronic pulmonary infections due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in adults with cystic fibrosis, or CF, did not provide substantial evidence of efficacy and safety to support FDA approval of QUINSAIR for treatment of patients with CF. In October 2016, the FDA expressed its recommendation that an additional clinical trial should be conducted, and noted that if Raptor submitted a new drug application, or NDA, without conducting an additional clinical trial, the FDA would review the submission to determine whether it is acceptable for filing.. Prior to our acquisition of Raptor, Raptor planned to pursue the development of QUINSAIR for use in the indication of bronchiectasis, or BE, not associated with CF. Raptor submitted a protocol to the FDA in August 2016 for a Phase 2, placebo-controlled study of QUINSAIR in adults with BE. Feedback from the FDA was received in October 2016 requesting additional information and changes to the proposed study protocol. Raptor was also exploring further clinical development of QUINSAIR for the treatment of pulmonary nontuberculous mycobacteria, or NTM infection, based on third-party data generated pertaining to the susceptibility of certain pathogens to treatment with levofloxacin and other fluoroquinolone molecules. No clinical data has been generated with QUINSAIR in patients with BE or with NTM infections, either by Raptor, subsequently by Horizon or by other parties. This creates uncertainty regarding the potential efficacy of QUINSAIR in these indications.. We will evaluate all development opportunities, including all obligations to use commercial reasonable efforts to further develop QUINSAIR. However, we may determine not to pursue such further development.. The ultimate approval and commercial marketing of any of our medicines in additional indications or geographies is subject to substantial uncertainty. Failure to gain additional regulatory approvals would limit the potential revenues and value of our medicines and could cause our share price to decline.. The amount of our medicine sales in the Member States of the European Economic Area, or EEA, is dependent in part upon the pricing and reimbursement decisions adopted in each of the EEA countries, which may not be at acceptable levels to us.. One or more EEA countries may not support pricing within our target pricing and reimbursement range for our medicines due to budgetary decisions made by regional, national and local health authorities and third-party payers in the EEA, which would negatively affect our revenues. The pricing and reimbursement process in EEA countries can be lengthy, involved and difficult to predict. Failure to timely complete the pricing and reimbursement process in the EEA countries will delay our ability to market our medicines in the EEA and to derive revenues from those countries.. We may be subject to penalties and litigation and large incremental expenses if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience problems with our medicines.. Even after we achieve regulatory approvals, we are subject to ongoing obligations and continued regulatory review with respect to many operational aspects including our manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, storage, adverse event monitoring and reporting, dispensation, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, ongoing maintenance of medicine registration and continued compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, good clinical practices, or GCPs, good pharmacovigilance practice, good distribution practices and good laboratory practices, or GLPs. If we, our medicines or medicine candidates, or the third-party manufacturing facilities for our medicines or medicine candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may:. •  impose injunctions or restrictions on the marketing, manufacturing or distribution of a medicine, suspend or withdraw medicine approvals, revoke necessary licenses or suspend medicine reimbursement;. •  issue warning letters, show cause notices or untitled letters describing alleged violations, which may be publicly available;. 43. •  suspend any ongoing clinical trials or delay or prevent the initiation of clinical trials;. •  delay or refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications we have filed;. •  refuse to permit drugs or precursor or intermediary chemicals to be imported or exported to or from the United States;. •  suspend or impose restrictions or additional requirements on operations, including costly new manufacturing quality or pharmacovigilance requirements;. •  seize or detain medicines or require us to initiate a medicine recall; and/or. •  commence criminal investigations and prosecutions.. Moreover, existing regulatory approvals and any future regulatory approvals that we obtain will be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses and patient populations for which our medicines may be marketed, the conditions of approval, requirements for potentially costly, post-market testing and requirements for surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the medicines. In the EEA, the advertising and promotion of pharmaceuticals is strictly regulated. The direct-to-consumer promotion of prescription pharmaceuticals is not permitted, and some countries in the EEA require the notification and/or prior authorization of promotional or advertising materials directed at healthcare professionals. The FDA, EMA and other authorities in the EEA countries strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription medicines, and our medicine labeling, advertising and promotion are subject to continuing regulatory review. Physicians nevertheless may prescribe our medicines to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label or that is off-label. Positive clinical trial results in any of our medicine development programs increase the risk that approved pharmaceutical forms of the same APIs may be used off-label in those indications. If we are found to have improperly promoted off-label uses of approved medicines, we may be subject to significant sanctions, civil and criminal fines and injunctions prohibiting us from engaging in specified promotional conduct.. In addition, engaging in improper promotion of our medicines for off-label uses in the United States can subject us to false claims litigation under federal and state statutes. These false claims statutes in the United States include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any individual to bring a lawsuit against a pharmaceutical company on behalf of the federal government alleging submission of false or fraudulent claims or causing to present such false or fraudulent claims for payment by a federal program such as Medicare or Medicaid. Growth in false claims litigation has increased the risk that a pharmaceutical company will have to defend a false claim action, pay civil money penalties, settlement fines or restitution, agree to comply with burdensome reporting and compliance obligations and be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.. The regulations, policies or guidance of regulatory agencies may change and new or additional statutes or government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our medicine candidates or further restrict or regulate post-approval activities. For example, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act requires the FDA to issue new guidance describing its policy regarding internet and social media promotion of regulated medical products, and the FDA may soon specify new restrictions on this type of promotion. In January 2014, the FDA released draft guidance on how drug companies can fulfill their regulatory requirements for post-marketing submission of interactive promotional media, and though the guidance provided insight into how the FDA views a company's responsibility for certain types of social media promotion, there remains a substantial amount of uncertainty. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from pending or future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are unable to achieve and maintain regulatory compliance, we will not be permitted to market our drugs, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 44. Our limited history of commercial operations makes evaluating our business and future prospects difficult and may increase the risk of any investment in our ordinary shares.. We face considerable risks and difficulties as a company with limited commercial operating history, particularly as a global consolidated entity with operating subsidiaries that also have limited operating histories. If we do not successfully address these risks, our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely harmed. Our limited commercial operating history, including our limited history commercializing our current medicines, makes it particularly difficult for us to predict our future operating results and appropriately budget for our expenses. In the event that actual results differ from our estimates or we adjust our estimates in future periods, our operating results and financial position could be materially affected. For example, we may underestimate the resources we will require to successfully integrate recent or future medicine or company acquisitions, or to commercialize our medicines, or not realize the benefits we expect to derive from our recent or future acquisitions. In addition, we have a limited history implementing our commercialization strategy focused on patient access, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully implement this strategy or that it will represent a viable strategy over the long term.. We have rights to medicines in certain jurisdictions but have no control over third parties that have rights to commercialize those medicines in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our commercialization of these medicines.. Following our sale of the rights to PROCYSBI and QUINSAIR in the Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, regions to Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A, or Chiesi, in June 2017, or the Chiesi divestiture, Chiesi has marketing and distribution rights to PROCYSBI and QUINSAIR in EMEA. Nuvo Pharmaceuticals Inc. (formerly known as Nuvo Research Inc.), or Nuvo, has retained its rights to PENNSAID 2% in territories outside of the United States and in March 2017, Nuvo announced that it had entered into an exclusive license agreement with Sayre Therapeutics PVT Ltd. to distribute, market and sell PENNSAID 2% in India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal. Nuvo also announced that it expects to complete PENNSAID 2% out-licensing agreements for other territories throughout 2018. Similarly, AstraZeneca AB, or AstraZeneca, has retained its existing rights to VIMOVO, in territories outside of the United States, including the right to use the VIMOVO name and related trademark. We have little or no control over Chiesi's activities with respect to PROCYSBI and QUINSAIR in EMEA, over Nuvo's or its existing and future commercial partners' activities with respect to PENNSAID 2% outside of the United States, or over AstraZeneca's activities with respect to VIMOVO outside the United States or even though those activities could impact our ability to successfully commercialize these medicines. For example, Chiesi or its assignees, Nuvo or its assignees or AstraZeneca or its assignees can make statements or use promotional materials with respect to PROCYSBI, QUINSAIR, PENNSAID 2% or VIMOVO, respectively, outside of the United States that are inconsistent with our positioning of the medicines in the United States, and could sell PROCYSBI, QUINSAIR, PENNSAID 2% or VIMOVO, respectively, in foreign countries at prices that are dramatically lower than the prices we charge in the United States. These activities and decisions, while occurring outside of the United States, could harm our commercialization strategy in the United States, in particular because AstraZeneca is continuing to market VIMOVO outside the United States under the same VIMOVO brand name that we are using in the United States. In addition, medicine recalls or safety issues with these medicines outside the United States, even if not related to the commercial medicine we sell in the United States, could result in serious damage to the brand in the United States and impair our ability to successfully market them. We also rely on Chiesi, Nuvo and AstraZeneca or their assignees to provide us with timely and accurate safety information regarding the use of these medicines outside of the United States, as we have or will have limited access to this information ourselves.. We rely on third parties to manufacture commercial supplies of all of our medicines, and we currently intend to rely on third parties to manufacture commercial supplies of any other approved medicines. The commercialization of any of our medicines could be stopped, delayed or made less profitable if those third parties fail to provide us with sufficient quantities of medicine or fail to do so at acceptable quality levels or prices or fail to maintain or achieve satisfactory regulatory compliance.. The facilities used by our third-party manufacturers to manufacture our medicines and medicine candidates must be approved by the applicable regulatory authorities. We do not control the manufacturing processes of third-party manufacturers and are currently completely dependent on our third-party manufacturing partners. In addition, we are required to obtain AstraZeneca's consent prior to engaging any third-party manufacturers for esomeprazole, one of the APIs in VIMOVO, other than the third-party manufacturer(s) used by AstraZeneca or its affiliates or licensees. To the extent such manufacturers are unwilling or unable to manufacture esomeprazole for us on commercially acceptable terms, we cannot guarantee that AstraZeneca would consent to our use of alternate sources of supply.. 45. We rely on an exclusive supply agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim Biopharmaceuticals GmbH, or Boehringer Ingelheim Biopharmaceuticals, for manufacturing and supply of ACTIMMUNE. ACTIMMUNE is manufactured by starting with cells from working cell bank samples which are derived from a master cell bank. We and Boehringer Ingelheim Biopharmaceuticals separately store multiple vials of the master cell bank. In the event of catastrophic loss at our or Boehringer Ingelheim Biopharmaceuticals' storage facility, it is possible that we could lose multiple cell banks and have the manufacturing capacity of ACTIMMUNE severely impacted by the need to substitute or replace the cell banks. We rely on NOF Corporation, or NOF, as our exclusive supplier of the PEGylation agent that is a critical raw material in the manufacture of KRYSTEXXA. If NOF failed to supply such PEGylation agent, it may lead to KRYSTEXXA supply constraints. In addition, a key excipient used in PENNSAID 2% as a penetration enhancer is dimethyl sulfoxide, or DMSO. We and Nuvo, our exclusive supplier of PENNSAID 2%, rely on a sole proprietary form of DMSO for which we maintain a substantial safety stock. However, should this supply become inadequate, damaged, destroyed or unusable, we and Nuvo may not be able to qualify a second source.. If any of our third-party manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the applicable regulatory authorities' strict regulatory requirements, or pass regulatory inspection, they will not be able to secure or maintain regulatory approval for the manufacturing facilities. For example, Pharmaceutics International, Inc., or PII, our manufacturer of BUPHENYL, was found to be non-compliant for cGMPs by the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, or the MHRA, which could restrict PII from supplying BUPHENYL in the EU. However, BUPHENYL was considered to be critical to public health and as a result, the MHRA issued a certificate of cGMP compliance for PII, which is valid until June 30, 2018. Additionally, we provided PII with a notice of termination of our supply agreement for BUPHENYL, and are in the process of negotiating a new supply agreement with them. We consider our BUPHENYL inventory on hand to be sufficient to meet current and future commercial requirements during the negotiation process. In addition, we have no control over the ability of third-party manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If the FDA or any other applicable regulatory authorities do not approve these facilities for the manufacture of our medicines or if they withdraw any such approval in the future, or if our suppliers or third-party manufacturers decide they no longer want to supply our primary active ingredients or manufacture our medicines, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our medicines. To the extent any third-party manufacturers that we engage with respect to our medicines are different from those currently being used for commercial supply in the United States, the FDA will need to approve the facilities of those third-party manufacturers used in the manufacture of our medicines prior to our sale of any medicine using these facilities.. Although we have entered into supply agreements for the manufacture and packaging of our medicines, our manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. We currently rely on single source suppliers for certain of our medicines. If our manufacturers terminate their agreements with us, we may have to qualify new back-up manufacturers. We rely on safety stock to mitigate the risk of our current suppliers electing to cease producing bulk drug medicine or ceasing to do so at acceptable prices and quality. However, we can provide no assurance that such safety stocks would be sufficient to avoid supply shortfalls in the event we have to identify and qualify new contract manufacturers.. The manufacture of medicines requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of medicines often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up and validating initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the medicine, quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Furthermore, if microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in the medicines or in the manufacturing facilities in which our medicines are made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination. We cannot assure that issues relating to the manufacture of any of our medicines will not occur in the future. Additionally, our manufacturers may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes or unstable political environments. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to commercialize our medicines or provide any medicine candidates to patients in clinical trials would be jeopardized.. Any delay or interruption in our ability to meet commercial demand for our medicines will result in the loss of potential revenues and could adversely affect our ability to gain market acceptance for these medicines. In addition, any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining clinical trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical trials at additional expense or terminate clinical trials completely.. 46. Failures or difficulties faced at any level of our supply chain could materially adversely affect our business and delay or impede the development and commercialization of any of our medicines or medicine candidates and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We have experienced growth and expanded the size of our organization substantially in connection with our acquisition transactions, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth as well as potential additional growth in connection with future medicine, development program or company acquisitions.. As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 300 full-time employees as a consolidated entity. As of December 31, 2017, we employed approximately 1,010 full-time employees, including approximately 430 sales representatives, representing a substantial change to the size of our organization. We have also experienced, and may continue to experience, turnover of the sales representatives that we hired or will hire in connection with the commercialization of our medicines, requiring us to hire and train new sales representatives. Our management, personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this recent and anticipated growth, and we may not be able to retain or recruit qualified personnel in the future due to competition for personnel among pharmaceutical businesses.. As our commercialization plans and strategies continue to develop, we will need to continue to recruit and train sales and marketing personnel. Our ability to manage any future growth effectively may require us to, among other things:. •  continue to manage and expand the sales and marketing efforts for our existing medicines;. •  enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures;. •  expand our international resources;. •  successfully identify, recruit, hire, train, maintain, motivate and integrate additional employees;. •  establish and increase our access to commercial supplies of our medicines and medicine candidates;. •  expand our facilities and equipment; and. •  manage our internal development efforts effectively while complying with our contractual obligations to licensors, licensees, contractors, collaborators, distributors and other third parties.. Our acquisitions have resulted in many changes, including significant changes in the corporate business and legal entity structure, the integration of other companies and their personnel with us, and changes in systems. We are currently undertaking numerous complex transition activities associated with our acquisitions, and we may encounter unexpected difficulties or incur unexpected costs, including:. •  difficulties in achieving growth prospects from combining third-party businesses with our business;. •  difficulties in the integration of operations and systems;. •  difficulties in the assimilation of employees and corporate cultures;. •  challenges in preparing financial statements and reporting timely results at both a statutory level for multiple entities and jurisdictions and at a consolidated level for public reporting;. •  challenges in keeping existing physician prescribers and patients and increasing adoption of acquired medicines;. •  difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the combination;. •  potential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the transaction; and. •  challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel.. If any of these factors impair our ability to continue to integrate our operations with those of any companies or businesses we acquire, we may not be able to realize the business opportunities, growth prospects and anticipated tax synergies from combining the businesses. In addition, we may be required to spend additional time or money on integration that otherwise would be spent on the development and expansion of our business.. 47. We may not be successful in growing our commercial operations outside the United States, and could encounter other challenges in growing our commercial presence in Europe, including due to risks associated with political and economic instability, operating under different legal requirements and tax complexities. If we are unable to manage our commercial growth outside of the United States, our opportunities to expand sales in other countries will be limited or we may experience greater costs with respect to our ex-U.S. commercial operations.. We are also broadening our acquisition strategy to potentially include development-stage assets or programs, which entails additional risk to us. For example, if we are unable to identify programs that ultimately result in approved medicines, we may spend material amounts of our capital and other resources evaluating, acquiring and developing medicines that ultimately do not provide a return on our investment. We have less experience evaluating development-stage assets and may be at a disadvantage compared to other entities pursuing similar opportunities. Regardless, development-stage programs generally have a high rate of failure and we cannot guarantee that any such programs will ultimately be successful. We will also need to enhance our clinical development and regulatory functions to properly evaluate and develop earlier-stage opportunities, which may include recruiting personnel that are knowledgeable in therapeutic areas we have not yet pursued. If we are unable to acquire promising development-stage assets or eventually obtain marketing approval for them, we may not be able to create a meaningful pipeline of new medicines and eventually realize a return on our investments.. Our management may also have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from day-to-day activities and toward managing these growth and integration activities. Our future financial performance and our ability to execute on our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth and our failure to effectively manage growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We face significant competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including those marketing generic medicines and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively.. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. We have competitors both in the United States and international markets, including major multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources, such as larger research and development staff, experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations and well-established sales forces. Additional consolidations in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors and we will have to find new ways to compete and may have to potentially merge with or acquire other businesses to stay competitive. Competition may increase further as a result of advances in the commercial applicability of technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these industries. Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or in-licensing on an exclusive basis, medicines that are more effective and/or less costly than our medicines.. RAVICTI and BUPHENYL face competition from generic NaPBA tablets and powder in treating UCD. Lucane Pharma, or Lucane, is seeking approval via an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, in the United States for taste-masked NaPBA. If this ANDA is approved, this formulation may also compete with RAVICTI and BUPHENYL in treating UCD in the United States. PROCYSBI faces competition from Cystagon (immediate-release cysteamine bitartrate capsules) for the treatment of cystinosis and Cystaran (cysteamine ophthalmic solution) for treatment of corneal crystal accumulation in patients with cystinosis. QUINSAIR faces competition from Tobramycin solution, which is available as a generic medicine for treatment of chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infections in patients with CF, TOBI Podhaler, Cayston and colistimethate. While KRYSTEXXA faces limited direct competition, a number of competitors have drugs in Phase 1 or Phase 2 trials. On December 22, 2015, AstraZeneca secured approval from the FDA for ZURAMPIC (lesinurad) 200mg tablets in combination with a xanthine oxidase inhibitor, or XOI, for the treatment of hyperuricemia associated with gout in patients who have not achieved target serum uric acid levels with an XOI alone. In April 2016, the U.S. rights to ZURAMPIC were licensed to Ironwood Pharmaceuticals Inc. Although ZURAMPIC is not a direct competitor because it has not been approved for refractory gout, this therapy could be used prior to use of KRYSTEXXA and if effective, could reduce the target patient population for KRYSTEXXA. PENNSAID 2% faces competition from generic versions of diclofenac sodium topical solutions that are priced significantly less than the price we charge for PENNSAID 2%. The generic version of Voltaren Gel is the market leader in the topical NSAID category. Legislation enacted in most states in the United States allows, or in some instances mandates, that a pharmacist dispense an available generic equivalent when filling a prescription for a branded medicine, in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician. DUEXIS and VIMOVO face competition from other NSAIDs, including Celebrex®, marketed by Pfizer Inc., and celecoxib, a generic form of the medicine marketed by other pharmaceutical companies. DUEXIS and VIMOVO also face significant competition from the separate use of NSAIDs for pain relief and GI protective medications to reduce the risk of NSAID-induced upper GI ulcers. Both NSAIDs and GI protective medications are available in generic form and may be less expensive to use separately than DUEXIS or VIMOVO, despite such substitution being off-label in the case of DUEXIS and VIMOVO. Because pharmacists often have economic and other incentives to prescribe lower-cost generics, if physicians prescribe PENNSAID 2%, DUEXIS,. 48. or VIMOVO, those prescriptions may not result in sales. If physicians do not complete prescriptions through our HorizonCares program or otherwise provide prescribing instructions prohibiting generic diclofenac sodium topical solutions as a substitute for PENNSAID 2%, the substitution of generic ibuprofen and famotidine separately as a substitution for DUEXIS or generic naproxen and branded Nexium® (esomeprazole) as a substitute for VIMOVO, sales of PENNSAID 2%, DUEXIS and VIMOVO may suffer despite any success we may have in promoting PENNSAID 2%, DUEXIS or VIMOVO to physicians. In addition, other medicine candidates that contain ibuprofen and famotidine in combination or naproxen and esomeprazole in combination, while not currently known or FDA approved, may be developed and compete with DUEXIS or VIMOVO, respectively, in the future.. We have also entered into settlement and license agreements that may allow certain of our competitors to sell generic versions of certain of our medicines in the United States, subject to the terms of such agreements. We granted (i) a non-exclusive license (that is only royalty-bearing in some circumstances) to manufacture and commercialize a generic version of DUEXIS in the United States after January 1, 2023, (ii) non-exclusive licenses to manufacture and commercialize generic versions of PENNSAID 2% in the United States after January 10, 2029, and (iii) a non-exclusive license to manufacture and commercialize a generic version of RAYOS tablets in the United States after December 23, 2022, or each earlier under certain circumstances.. Patent litigation is currently pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Par Pharmaceutical, Inc., or Par Pharmaceutical, and in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Par Pharmaceutical and against Lupin Limited and Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or collectively Lupin, who are each intending to market generic versions of RAVICTI prior to the expiration of certain of our patents listed in the Orange Book. These cases are collectively known as the RAVICTI cases and arise from Paragraph IV Patent Certification notice letters from each of Par Pharmaceutical and Lupin advising each had filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of RAVICTI before the expiration of the patents-in-suit.. Patent litigation is currently pending in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against several companies intending to market a generic version of PENNSAID 2% prior to the expiration of certain of our patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book, or the Orange Book. These cases are collectively known as the PENNSAID 2% cases, and involve the following sets of defendants: (i) Actavis Laboratories UT, Inc., formerly known as Watson Laboratories, Inc., Actavis, Inc. and Actavis plc, or collectively Actavis; and (ii) Lupin. These cases arise from Paragraph IV Patent Certification notice letters from each of Actavis and Lupin advising each had filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of PENNSAID 2% before the expiration of the patents-in-suit.. Patent litigation is currently pending in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey and the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit against several companies intending to market a generic version of VIMOVO before the expiration of certain of our patents listed in the Orange Book. These cases are collectively known as the VIMOVO cases, and involve the following sets of defendants: (i) Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Inc. and Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd., or collectively Dr. Reddy's; (ii) Lupin; and (iii) Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., Mylan Laboratories Limited, and Mylan Inc., or collectively Mylan. Patent litigation is currently pending before the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit against a fourth generic company, Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Limited (formerly known as Actavis Laboratories FL, Inc., which itself was formerly known as Watson Laboratories, Inc.  -  Florida) and Actavis Pharma, Inc., or collectively Actavis Pharma. The cases arise from Paragraph IV Patent Certification notice letters from each of Dr. Reddy's, Lupin, Mylan and Actavis Pharma advising each had filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions of VIMOVO before the expiration of the patents-in-suit.. If we are unsuccessful in any of the VIMOVO cases or PENNSAID 2% cases, we will likely face generic competition with respect to VIMOVO and/or PENNSAID 2% and sales of VIMOVO and/or PENNSAID 2% will be substantially harmed. If we are unsuccessful in any of the RAVICTI cases, RAVICTI would likely face generic competition in the United States when its orphan exclusivity expires (currently scheduled to occur in February 2020), and its sales would likely materially decline.. ACTIMMUNE is the only medicine currently approved by the FDA specifically for the treatment of CGD and SMO. While there are additional or alternative approaches used to treat patients with CGD and SMO, there are currently no medicines on the market that compete directly with ACTIMMUNE. A widely accepted protocol to treat CGD in the United States is the use of concomitant \"triple prophylactic therapy\" comprising ACTIMMUNE, an oral antibiotic agent and an oral antifungal agent. However, the FDA-approved labeling for ACTIMMUNE does not discuss this \"triple prophylactic therapy,\" and physicians may choose to prescribe one or both of the other modalities in the absence of ACTIMMUNE. Because of the immediate and life-threatening nature of SMO, the preferred treatment option for SMO is often to have the. 49. patient undergo a bone marrow transplant which, if successful, will likely obviate the need for further use of ACTIMMUNE in that patient. Likewise, the use of bone marrow transplants in the treatment of patients with CGD is becoming more prevalent, which could have a material adverse effect on sales of ACTIMMUNE and its profitability. We are aware of a number of research programs investigating the potential of gene therapy as a possible cure for CGD. Additionally, other companies may be pursuing the development of medicines and treatments that target the same diseases and conditions which ACTIMMUNE is currently approved to treat. As a result, it is possible that our competitors may develop new medicines that manage CGD or SMO more effectively, cost less or possibly even cure CGD or SMO. In addition, U.S. healthcare legislation passed in March 2010 authorized the FDA to approve biological products, known as biosimilars, that are similar to or interchangeable with previously approved biological products, like ACTIMMUNE, based upon potentially abbreviated data packages. Biosimilars are likely to be sold at substantially lower prices than branded medicines because the biosimilar manufacturer would not have to recoup the research and development and marketing costs associated with the branded medicine. Though we are not currently aware of any biosimilar under development, the development and commercialization of any competing medicines or the discovery of any new alternative treatment for CGD or SMO could have a material adverse effect on sales of ACTIMMUNE and its profitability.. BUPHENYL's composition of matter patent protection and orphan drug exclusivity have expired. Because BUPHENYL has no regulatory exclusivity or listed patents, there is nothing to prevent a competitor from submitting an ANDA for a generic version of BUPHENYL and receiving FDA approval. Generic versions of BUPHENYL to date have been priced at a discount relative to BUPHENYL or RAVICTI, and physicians, patients, or payers may decide that this less expensive alternative is preferable to BUPHENYL and RAVICTI. If this occurs, sales of BUPHENYL and/or RAVICTI could be materially reduced, but we would nevertheless be required to make royalty payments to Ucyclyd Pharma, Inc., or Ucyclyd, and another external party, at the same royalty rates. While Ucyclyd and its affiliates are generally contractually prohibited from developing or commercializing new medicines, anywhere in the world, for the treatment of UCD or hepatic encephalopathy, or HE, which are chemically similar to RAVICTI, they may still develop and commercialize medicines that compete with RAVICTI. For example, medicines approved for indications other than UCD and HE may still compete with RAVICTI if physicians prescribe such medicines off-label for UCD or HE. We are also aware that Orphan Europe SARL, or Orphan Europe, is conducting a clinical trial of carglumic acid to treat some of the UCD enzyme deficiencies for which RAVICTI was approved. Promethera Biosciences SA has successfully completed Phase I/II trials of its cell-based therapy for the treatment of UCD and plans to conduct a Phase IIb/III clinical trial. Carglumic acid is approved for maintenance therapy for chronic hyperammonemia and to treat hyperammonenic crises in Nacetylglutamate synthase deficiency, a rare UCD subtype, and is sold under the name Carbaglu. If the results of this trial are successful and Orphan Europe is able to complete development and obtain approval of Carbaglu to treat additional UCD enzyme deficiencies, RAVICTI would face additional competition from this compound.. The availability and price of our competitors' medicines could limit the demand, and the price we are able to charge, for our medicines. We will not successfully execute on our business objectives if the market acceptance of our medicines is inhibited by price competition, if physicians are reluctant to switch from existing medicines to our medicines, or if physicians switch to other new medicines or choose to reserve our medicines for use in limited patient populations.. In addition, established pharmaceutical companies may invest heavily to accelerate discovery and development of novel compounds or to acquire novel compounds that could make our medicines obsolete. Our ability to compete successfully with these companies and other potential competitors will depend largely on our ability to leverage our experience in clinical, regulatory and commercial development to:. •  develop and acquire medicines that are superior to other medicines in the market;. •  attract qualified clinical, regulatory, and sales and marketing personnel;. •  obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our medicines and technologies;. •  obtain required regulatory approvals; and. •  successfully collaborate with pharmaceutical companies in the discovery, development and commercialization of new medicine candidates.. 50. If we are unable to maintain or realize the benefits of orphan drug exclusivity, we may face increased competition with respect to certain of our medicines.. Under the Orphan Drug Act of 1983, the FDA may designate a medicine as an orphan drug if it is a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition affecting fewer than 200,000 people in the United States. A company that first obtains FDA approval for a designated orphan drug for the specified rare disease or condition receives orphan drug marketing exclusivity for that drug for a period of seven years from the date of its approval. RAVICTI and PROCYSBI have been granted orphan drug exclusivity by the FDA, which we expect will provide orphan drug marketing exclusivity in the United States until February 2020 and December 2020, respectively, with exclusivity for PROCYSBI extending to 2022 for patients ages one to six years. In addition, teprotumumab has been granted orphan drug designation and, if approved by the FDA, would be eligible for seven years of marketing exclusivity in the United States following such approval.  However, despite orphan drug exclusivity, the FDA can still approve another drug containing the same active ingredient and used for the same orphan indication if it determines that a subsequent drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care, and orphan exclusivity can be lost if the orphan drug manufacturer is unable to ensure that a sufficient quantity of the orphan drug is available to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. Orphan drug exclusivity may also be lost if the FDA later determines that the initial request for designation was materially defective. In addition, orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent the FDA from approving competing drugs for the same or similar indication containing a different active ingredient. If orphan drug exclusivity is lost and we were unable to successfully enforce any remaining patents covering RAVICTI or PROCYSBI, we could be subject to generic competition and revenues from RAVICTI or PROCYSBI could decrease materially. In addition, if a subsequent drug is approved for marketing for the same or a similar indication as RAVICTI or PROCYSBI despite orphan drug exclusivity, we may face increased competition and lose market share with respect to these medicines. RAVICTI will benefit from a period of 10 years of orphan market exclusivity in the EU, concurrently applied to each of the approved six sub-types of the UCDs. This will run concurrently with its marketing exclusivity status.. Our business operations may subject us to numerous commercial disputes, claims and/or lawsuits and such litigation may be costly and time-consuming and could materially and adversely impact our financial position and results of operations.. Operating in the pharmaceutical industry, particularly the commercialization of medicines, involves numerous commercial relationships, complex contractual arrangements, uncertain intellectual property rights, potential product liability and other aspects that create heightened risks of disputes, claims and lawsuits. In particular, we may face claims related to the safety of our medicines, intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition, sales and marketing practices, environmental matters, personal injury, insurance coverage and acquisition or divestiture-related matters. For example, the active ingredient in QUINSAIR, levofloxacin, is currently subject to product liability claims. Any commercial dispute, claim or lawsuit may divert management's attention away from our business, we may incur significant expenses in addressing or defending any commercial dispute, claim or lawsuit, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our operations and financial results.. We are currently in litigation with multiple generic drug manufacturers regarding intellectual property infringement. For example, we are currently involved in Hatch Waxman litigation with generic drug manufacturers related to, RAVICTI, PENNSAID 2% and VIMOVO.. Similarly, from time to time we are involved in disputes with distributors, PBMs and licensing partners regarding our rights and performance of obligations under contractual arrangements. For example, we were previously in litigation with Express Scripts related to alleged breach of contract claims.. Litigation related to these disputes may be costly and time-consuming and could materially and adversely impact our financial position and results of operations if resolved against us.. 51. A variety of risks associated with operating our business and marketing our medicines internationally could materially adversely affect our business.. In addition to our U.S. operations, we have operations in Ireland, Bermuda, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, or Luxembourg, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, the Grand Cayman Islands and in Israel (through Andromeda Biotech Ltd). RAVICTI received marketing authorization from Health Canada, or HC, in March 2016 and marketing approval in the EU in November 2015. We launched RAVICTI in Canada in November 2016 and RAVICTI became available in Europe in the fourth quarter of 2017 through our partnership with SOBI. PROCYSBI received marketing authorization from HC in June 2017 and we launched PROCYSBI in Canada in October 2017. BUPHENYL is currently marketed in various territories outside the United States by third-party distributors. QUINSAIR received marketing authorization from HC in June 2015 and we launched QUINSAIR in Canada in December 2016. We face risks associated with our international operations, including possible unfavorable regulatory, pricing and reimbursement, political, tax and labor conditions, which could harm our business. We are subject to numerous risks associated with international business activities, including:. •  compliance with differing or unexpected regulatory requirements for our medicines;. •  compliance with Irish laws and the maintenance of our Irish tax residency with respect to our overall corporate structure and administrative operations, including the need to generally hold meetings of our board of directors and make decisions in Ireland, which may make certain corporate actions more cumbersome, costly and time-consuming;. •  difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;. •  in certain circumstances, including with respect to the commercialization of RAVICTI in select countries throughout Europe, commercialization of BUPHENYL in select countries throughout Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia-Pacific region, commercialization of LODOTRA in Europe and certain Asian, Latin American, Middle Eastern and African countries, and commercialization of DUEXIS in Latin America, increased dependence on the commercialization efforts and regulatory compliance of third-party distributors or strategic partners;. •  compliance with German laws with respect to our Horizon Pharma GmbH subsidiary through which Horizon Pharma Switzerland GmbH conducts most of its European operations;. •  foreign government taxes, regulations and permit requirements;. •  U.S. and foreign government tariffs, trade restrictions, price and exchange controls and other regulatory requirements;. •  anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA;. •  economic weakness, including inflation, natural disasters, war, events of terrorism or political instability in particular foreign countries;. •  fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations related to doing business in another country;. •  compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws, regulations and restrictions for employees living or traveling abroad;. •  workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;. •  production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad;. •  changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and. •  challenges in enforcing our contractual and intellectual property rights, especially in those foreign countries that do not respect and protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States.. 52. Our business activities outside of the United States are subject to the FCPA and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the United Kingdom's Bribery Act 2010, or the U.K. Bribery Act. The FCPA and similar anti-corruption laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to non-U.S. government officials in order to improperly influence any act or decision, secure any other improper advantage, or obtain or retain business. The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the company and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. The U.K. Bribery Act prohibits giving, offering, or promising bribes to any person, including non-United Kingdom, or U.K., government officials and private persons, as well as requesting, agreeing to receive, or accepting bribes from any person. In addition, under the U.K. Bribery Act, companies which carry on a business or part of a business in the U.K. may be held liable for bribes given, offered or promised to any person, including non-U.K. government officials and private persons, by employees and persons associated with the company in order to obtain or retain business or a business advantage for the company. Liability is strict, with no element of a corrupt state of mind, but a defense of having in place adequate procedures designed to prevent bribery is available. Furthermore, under the U.K. Bribery Act there is no exception for facilitation payments. As described above, our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with public officials, including officials of non-U.S. governments. Additionally, in many other countries, the health care providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by their government, and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, any dealings with these prescribers and purchasers may be subject to regulation under the FCPA. Recently the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice have increased their FCPA enforcement activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies. In addition, under the Dodd - Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, private individuals who report to the SEC original information that leads to successful enforcement actions may be eligible for a monetary award. We are engaged in ongoing efforts that are designed to ensure our compliance with these laws, including due diligence, training, policies, procedures and internal controls. However, there is no certainty that all employees and third-party business partners (including our distributors, wholesalers, agents, contractors, and other partners) will comply with anti-bribery laws. In particular, we do not control the actions of manufacturers and other third-party agents, although we may be liable for their actions. Violation of these laws may result in civil or criminal sanctions, which could include monetary fines, criminal penalties, and disgorgement of past profits, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition.. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to develop or acquire other medicine candidates or medicines, our business and prospects would be limited.. A key element of our strategy is to develop or acquire and commercialize a portfolio of other medicines or medicine candidates in addition to our current medicines, through business or medicine acquisitions. Because we do not engage in proprietary drug discovery, the success of this strategy depends in large part upon the combination of our regulatory, development and commercial capabilities and expertise and our ability to identify, select and acquire approved or clinically enabled medicine candidates for therapeutic indications that complement or augment our current medicines, or that otherwise fit into our development or strategic plans on terms that are acceptable to us. Identifying, selecting and acquiring promising medicines or medicine candidates requires substantial technical, financial and human resources expertise. Efforts to do so may not result in the actual acquisition or license of a particular medicine or medicine candidate, potentially resulting in a diversion of our management's time and the expenditure of our resources with no resulting benefit. If we are unable to identify, select and acquire suitable medicines or medicine candidates from third parties or acquire businesses at valuations and on other terms acceptable to us, or if we are unable to raise capital required to acquire businesses or new medicines, our business and prospects will be limited.. Moreover, any medicine candidate we acquire may require additional, time-consuming development or regulatory efforts prior to commercial sale or prior to expansion into other indications, including pre-clinical studies if applicable, and extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All medicine candidates are prone to the risk of failure that is inherent in pharmaceutical medicine development, including the possibility that the medicine candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and/or effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure that any such medicines that are approved will be manufactured or produced economically, successfully commercialized or widely accepted in the marketplace or be more effective or desired than other commercially available alternatives.. 53. In addition, if we fail to successfully commercialize and further develop our medicines, there is a greater likelihood that we will fail to successfully develop a pipeline of other medicine candidates to follow our existing medicines or be able to acquire other medicines to expand our existing portfolio, and our business and prospects would be harmed.. Our prior medicine and company acquisitions and any other strategic transactions that we may pursue in the future could have a variety of negative consequences, and we may not realize the benefits of such transactions or attempts to engage in such transactions.. We have completed multiple medicine and company acquisitions and our strategy is to engage in additional strategic transactions with third parties, such as acquisitions of companies or divisions of companies and asset purchases of medicines, medicine candidates or technologies that we believe will complement or augment our existing business. We may also consider a variety of other business arrangements, including spin-offs, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, restructurings, divestitures, business combinations and other investments. Any such transaction may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near and long-term expenditures, pose significant integration challenges, create additional tax, legal, accounting and operational complexities in our business, require additional expertise, result in dilution to our existing shareholders and disrupt our management and business, which could harm our operations and financial results. For example, we assumed responsibility for the existing patent infringement litigation with respect to RAVICTI upon the closing of our acquisition of Hyperion Therapeutics, Inc., or Hyperion, and have assumed responsibility for completing post-marketing clinical trials of RAVICTI that are required by the FDA and are ongoing. We expect that the RAVICTI litigation will result in substantial on-going expenses and potential distractions to our management team.. In connection with our acquisition of Raptor, we assumed contractual obligations under agreements with Tripex Pharmaceuticals, LLC, or Tripex, and PARI Pharma GmbH, or PARI, related to QUINSAIR. Under the agreement with Tripex, we are required to pursue commercially reasonable efforts to initiate, and subsequently to complete, an additional clinical trial of QUINSAIR in a non-CF patient population within a specified period of time and an obligation to progress toward submitting an NDA for approval of QUINSAIR in the United States for use in all or part of the CF patient population. These obligations are subject to certain exceptions due to, for example, manufacturing delays not under our control, or delays caused by the FDA. If we fail to properly exercise such efforts to initiate and complete an appropriate clinical trial, or fail to submit an NDA for U.S. approval in the CF patient population, during the time periods specified in the agreement, we may be subject to various claims by Tripex and parties affiliated with Tripex. In addition, if we do not spend a minimum amount on QUINSAIR development in each of the three years following our acquisition of Raptor, we may also be obligated to pre-pay a milestone payment related to initiating a clinical trial for QUINSAIR in a non-CF indication. During October 2017, we triggered a milestone payment under this agreement, and we paid Tripex $20.0 million in November 2017. Under the license agreement with PARI, we are required to comply with diligence milestones related to development and commercialization of QUINSAIR in the United States and to spend a specified minimum amount per year on development activities in the United States until submission of the NDA for QUINSAIR in the United States. If we do not comply with these obligations, our licenses to certain intellectual property related to QUINSAIR may become non-exclusive in the United States or could be terminated. We are also subject to contractual obligations under an amended and restated license agreement with the Regents of the University of California, San Diego, or UCSD, with respect to PROCYSBI, including obligations to consider engaging in the development of PROCYSBI for the treatment of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH, and related diligence obligations if we undertake such development.  Under the amended and restated license agreement with USCD, we also are subject to diligence obligations to identify a third party to undertake development of PROCYSBI for the treatment of Huntington's disease. To the extent that we fail to perform the diligence obligations under the agreement, UCSD may, with respect to such indication, terminate the license or otherwise cause the license to become non-exclusive. If one or more of these licenses was terminated, we would have no further right to use or exploit the related intellectual property, which would limit our ability to develop PROCYSBI or QUINSAIR in other indications, and could impact our ability to continue commercializing PROCYSBI or QUINSAIR in their approved indications. In connection with our acquisition of the U.S. rights to VIMOVO, we assumed primary responsibility for the existing patent infringement litigation with respect to VIMOVO, and have also agreed to reimburse certain legal expenses of Aralez Pharmaceuticals Inc. with respect to its continued involvement in such litigation.. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic transaction opportunities and the negotiation process for any strategic transaction can be time-consuming and complex. In addition, we may not be successful in our efforts to engage in certain strategic transactions because our financial resources may be insufficient and/or third parties may not view our commercial and development capabilities as being adequate. We may not be able to expand our business or realize our strategic goals if we do not have sufficient funding or cannot borrow or raise additional capital. There is no assurance that following any of our recent acquisition transactions or any other strategic transaction, we will achieve the anticipated revenues, net income or other benefits that we believe justify such transactions. In addition, any failures or delays in entering into strategic transactions anticipated by analysts or the investment community could seriously harm our consolidated business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.. 54. We may not be able to successfully maintain our current advantageous tax status and resulting tax rates, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Our parent company is incorporated in Ireland and has subsidiaries maintained in multiple jurisdictions, including Ireland, the United States, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Germany, Canada, the Grand Cayman Islands and Bermuda. Prior to our merger transaction in September 2014 with Vidara Therapeutics International Public Limited Company, or Vidara, and such transaction, the Vidara Merger, Vidara was able to achieve a favorable tax rate through the performance of certain functions and ownership of certain assets in tax-efficient jurisdictions, including Ireland and Bermuda, together with intra-group service and transfer pricing agreements, each on an arm's length basis. We are continuing a substantially similar structure and arrangements. Nevertheless, our effective tax rate may be different than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including passage of the Tax Act (as defined below), changes to the tax laws of jurisdictions that we operate in other than the United States made in response to the Tax Act, changes in the mix of our profitability from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, future changes to U.S. tax law (including for example, the enactment of new U.S. tax treaties or changes to existing tax treaties), and our inability to secure or sustain acceptable agreements with tax authorities (if applicable). Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations. Taxing authorities, such as the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, actively audit and otherwise challenge these types of arrangements, and have done so in the pharmaceutical industry. We expect that these challenges will continue as a result of the recent increase in scrutiny and political attention on corporate tax structures. The IRS may challenge our structure and transfer pricing arrangements through an audit or lawsuit. Responding to or defending such a challenge could be expensive and consume time and other resources, and divert management's time and focus from operating our business. We cannot predict whether taxing authorities will conduct an audit or file a lawsuit challenging this structure, the cost involved in responding to any such audit or lawsuit, or the outcome. If we are unsuccessful in defending such a challenge, we may be required to pay taxes for prior periods, interest, fines or penalties, and may be obligated to pay increased taxes in the future, any of which could require us to reduce our operating expenses, decrease efforts in support of our medicines or seek to raise additional funds, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The IRS may not agree with our conclusion that our parent company should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes following the combination of the businesses of Horizon Pharma, Inc., or HPI, and Vidara.. Although our parent company is incorporated in Ireland, the IRS may assert that it should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. A corporation is generally considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Because our parent company is an Irish incorporated entity, it would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-U.S. tax resident) under these general rules. Section 7874 of the Code provides an exception pursuant to which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Under Section 7874 of the Code, a foreign corporation will be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes if, due to an acquisition of a U.S. corporation, at least 80 percent of its stock (by vote or value) is held by former stockholders of the acquired U.S. corporation. We believe that we should be treated as a foreign corporation because the former stockholders of HPI owned (within the meaning of Section 7874 of the Code) less than 80 percent (by both vote and value) of the combined entity's stock immediately after the Vidara Merger. However, there can be no assurance that there will not exist in the future a subsequent change in the facts or in law which might cause our parent company to be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including with retroactive effect.. Further, there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with the position that the ownership test was satisfied. If our parent company were unable to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, one of our significant strategic reasons for completing the Vidara Merger would be nullified and we may not be able to recoup the significant investment in completing the transaction.. Future changes to U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws could materially adversely affect our company.. Under current law, we expect our parent company to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, changes to the rules in Section 7874 of the Code or regulations promulgated thereunder or other guidance issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or the U.S. Treasury, or the IRS could adversely affect our parent company's status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or the taxation of transactions between members of our group, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application. If our parent company is treated as a domestic corporation, more of our income will be taxed by the United States which may substantially increase our effective tax rate.. 55. On April 4, 2016, the U.S. Treasury and the IRS issued temporary regulations and in January 2017 issued final regulations that expand the scope of transactions subject to the rules designed to eliminate the U.S. tax benefits of so-called inversion transactions. Under the temporary regulations, the former stockholders of U.S. corporations acquired by a foreign corporation within thirty-six months of the signing date of the last such acquisition are aggregated for the purpose of determining whether the foreign corporation will be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes because at least 80 percent of the stock of the foreign corporation is held by former stockholders of a U.S. corporation. The requirement to aggregate the stockholders in such acquisitions for the purpose of determining whether the 80 percent threshold is met may limit our ability to use our stock to acquire U.S. corporations or their assets in the future. In April 2017, the President of the United States issued an executive order (Executive Order 13789) requesting that the Secretary of the United States Treasury review every significant regulation issued over the year and a half period beginning on January 1, 2016, including certain inversion regulations. While the Secretary of the United States Treasury completed that review in 2017 and made certain recommendations with respect to certain regulations that were deemed to impose an undue financial burden, add undue complexity, or exceed statutory authority, at present, it is unclear what actions may be taken as a result of the U.S. Treasury's recommendations or what impact any such actions may have on us.. The U.S. Treasury and the IRS also issued proposed regulations on April 4, 2016 as well as final and temporary regulations in October 2016 that address whether an interest in a related corporation is debt or equity for United States federal income tax purposes. These regulations could result in recharacterization of inter-company debt to equity for certain of our inter-company debt and such a recharacterization could result in more of our future income being taxed by the United States and thereby increase our effective tax rate. We are continuing to evaluate the impact that these regulations may have and will reflect such impact on our financial statements as required.. In addition, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development released its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project final report on October 5, 2015. This report provides the basis for international standards for corporate taxation that are designed to prevent, among other things, the artificial shifting of income to tax havens and low-tax jurisdictions, the erosion of the tax base through interest deductions on inter-company debt and the artificial avoidance of permanent establishments (i.e., tax nexus with a jurisdiction). Legislation to adopt these standards has been enacted or is currently under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. On June 7, 2017, several countries, including many countries that we operate and have subsidiaries in, participated in the signing ceremony adopting the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development's Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, commonly referred to as the MLI. The MLI is intended to provide countries with a tool through which they can amend their income tax treaties. Although not yet effective, the MLI may modify thousands of tax treaties making it more difficult for us to obtain advantageous tax-treaty benefits. As a result, our income may be taxed in jurisdictions where it is not currently taxed and at higher rates of tax than it is currently taxed, which may substantially increase our effective tax rate.. On July 12, 2016, the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive, or ATAD, was formally adopted by the Economic and Financial Affairs Council of the European Union, or EU. The stated objective of the ATAD is to provide for the effective and swift coordinated implementation of anti-base erosion and profit shifting measures at EU level. Like all Directives, the ATAD is binding as to the results it aims to achieve though EU Member States are free to choose the form and method of achieving those results. In addition, the ATAD contains a number of optional provisions that present an element of choice as to how it will be implemented into law. Elements of the ATAD must be transposed into Irish law by January 1, 2019, and although it is difficult at this stage to determine with precision the impact that the ATAD will have in light of its optional provisions, its implementation could materially increase our effective tax rate.. On December 22, 2017, new legislation was signed into law (H.R. 1, \"An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018\", informally titled the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act) that significantly revises the Code. The Tax Act, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), implementation of a \"base erosion anti-abuse tax\" which requires U.S. corporations to make an alternative determination of taxable income without regard to tax deductions for certain payments to affiliates, taxation of certain non-U.S. corporations' earnings considered to be \"global intangible low taxed income\", or GILTI, repeal of the alternative minimum tax, or AMT, for corporations and changes to a taxpayer's ability to either utilize or refund the AMT credits previously generated, changes to the limitation on deductions for certain executive compensation particularly with respect to the removal of the previously allowed performance based compensation exception, changes in the attribution rules relating to shareholders of certain \"controlled foreign corporations\", limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one-time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing. 56. many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. The impact of the Tax Act on holders of our ordinary shares is also uncertain and could be adverse. For example, recent changes in federal income tax law resulting in additional taxes owed by U.S. shareholders under the new GILTI tax rules or related to \"controlled foreign corporations\" may discourage U.S. investors from owning or acquiring 10% or greater of our outstanding ordinary shares, which other shareholders may have viewed as beneficial or may otherwise negatively impact the trading price of our ordinary shares. We are unable to predict what federal tax law may be proposed or enacted in the future or what effect such changes would have on our business, but such changes, to the extent they are brought into tax legislation, regulations, policies or practices, could affect our effective tax rates in the future in countries where we have operations and have an adverse effect on our overall tax rate in the future, along with increasing the complexity, burden and cost of tax compliance. We urge our shareholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to this legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in or holding our ordinary shares.. If we are not successful in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy.. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific and medical personnel. We are highly dependent on our management, sales and marketing and scientific and medical personnel, including our executive officers composed of our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Timothy P. Walbert; our Executive Vice President, Chief Business Officer, Robert F. Carey; our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Paul W. Hoelscher; our Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Barry J. Moze; our Executive Vice President, Chief Medical Officer, Jeffrey W. Sherman, M.D., FACP; our Executive Vice President, Head of Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer, Shao-Lee Lin, M.D., Ph.D; our Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer, Irina P. Konstantinovsky; our Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Brian K. Beeler; our Executive Vice President, Primary Care Business Unit, George P. Hampton; our Executive Vice President, Technical Operations, Michael A. DesJardin; our Senior Vice President, Orphan Business Unit, Eric B. Mosbrooker and our Senior Vice President, Rheumatology Business Unit, Vikram Karnani. In order to retain valuable employees at our company, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we provide a mix of performance stock units, or PSUs, stock options and restricted stock units, or RSUs, that vest over time. The value to employees of PSUs, stock options and RSUs will be significantly affected by movements in our share price that are beyond our control, and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies.. Despite our efforts to retain valuable employees, members of our management, sales and marketing, regulatory affairs, clinical development, medical affairs and development teams may terminate their employment with us on short notice. Although we have written employment arrangements with all of our employees, these employment arrangements generally provide for at-will employment, which means that our employees can leave our employment at any time, with or without notice. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees and our inability to find suitable replacements could potentially harm our business, financial condition and prospects. We do not maintain \"key man\" insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled junior, mid-level, and senior managers as well as junior, mid-level, and senior sales and marketing and scientific and medical personnel.. Many of the other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies with whom we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles and longer histories in the industry than we do. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high quality candidates than that which we have to offer. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain high quality personnel, the rate and success at which we can develop and commercialize medicines and medicine candidates will be limited.. 57. We are, with respect to our current medicines, and will be, with respect to any other medicine or medicine candidate for which we obtain FDA or EMA approval or which we acquire, subject to ongoing FDA or EMA obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense. Additionally, any other medicine candidate, if approved by the FDA or the EMA, could be subject to labeling and other restrictions and market withdrawal, and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with our medicines.. Any regulatory approvals that we obtain for our medicine candidates may also be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the medicine may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the medicine candidate. In addition, with respect to our current FDA-approved medicines (and with respect to our medicine candidates, if approved), the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the medicine are subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, as well as continued compliance with cGMPs, GCPs, international council for harmonization, or ICH, guidelines and GLPs, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA for all of our medicines in clinical development, for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. With respect to RAVICTI, the FDA imposed several post-marketing requirements and a post-marketing commitment, which include remaining obligations to conduct studies in UCD patients during the first two months of life and from two months to two years of age, including a study of the pharmacokinetics in both age groups, and a randomized study to determine the safety and efficacy in UCD patients who are treatment naïve to phenylbutyrate treatment. Although we are committed to carrying out these commitments, there are challenges in conducting studies in pediatric patients including availability of study sites, patients, and obtaining parental informed consent. In May 2017, the FDA approved our supplemental new drug application, or sNDA, for RAVICTI to expand the age range for chronic management of UCDs from two years of age and older to two months of age and older. We are in the process of seeking approval for a label expansion for RAVICTI, with assessments in progress studying the use of RAVICTI in patients from birth to two months.. In addition, the FDA closely regulates the marketing and promotion of drugs and biologics. The FDA does not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. The FDA does, however, restrict manufacturers' promotional communications. A significant number of pharmaceutical companies have been the target of inquiries and investigations by various U.S. federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and administrative entities in connection with the promotion of medicines for off-label uses and other sales practices. These investigations have alleged violations of various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations, including claims asserting antitrust violations, violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, false claims laws, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, anti-kickback laws, and other alleged violations in connection with the promotion of medicines for unapproved uses, pricing and Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement. While Congress has recently considered legislation that would modify or eliminate restrictions for off-label promotion, we do not have sufficient information to anticipate if the current regulatory environment will change.. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a medicine, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with our third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things:. •  restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the medicine, withdrawal of the medicine from the market, or voluntary or mandatory medicine recalls;. •  refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our strategic partners, or suspension or revocation of medicine license approvals;. •  medicine seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of medicines; and. •  injunctions, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, or exclusion, debarment or suspension from government healthcare programs.. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. 58. We are subject to federal, state and foreign healthcare laws and regulations and implementation or changes to such healthcare laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to regulate and to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our medicines profitably. In the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs (including a number of proposals pertaining to prescription drugs, specifically), improving quality and/or expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives.. If we are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other federal or state regulations, we may be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion, additional reporting requirements and/or oversight from federal health care programs and the restructuring of our operations. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Since many of these laws have not been fully interpreted by the courts, there is an increased risk that we may be found in violation of one or more of their provisions. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we ultimately are successful in our defense, will cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention away from the operation of our business.. In January 2017, the United States House of Representatives and Senate passed legislation, the concurrent budget resolution for fiscal year 2017, which initiates actions that would repeal certain aspects of the ACA. Further, on January 20, 2017, U.S. President Donald Trump signed an Executive Order directing federal agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the ACA, to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of any provision of the ACA that would impose a fiscal or regulatory burden on states, individuals, healthcare providers, health insurers, or manufacturers of pharmaceuticals or medical devices. In May 2017, following the passage of the budget resolution for fiscal year 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation known as the American Health Care Act, which, if enacted, would have amended and repealed significant portions of the ACA. The U.S. Senate considered but did not adopt other legislation to amend and/or replace elements of the ACA and authority to act under the fiscal year 2017 budget resolution expired on September 30, 2017. However, on October 12, 2017, U.S. President Donald Trump signed another Executive Order directing certain federal agencies to propose regulations or guidelines to permit small businesses to form association health plans, expand the availability of short-term, limited duration insurance, and expand the use of health reimbursement arrangements, which may circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the ACA. In addition, citing legal guidance from the U.S. Department of Justice and the HHS, the Trump administration has concluded that cost-sharing reduction, or CSR, payments to insurance companies required under the ACA have not received necessary appropriations from Congress and announced that it will discontinue these payments immediately until such appropriations are made.  The loss of the CSR payments is expected to increase premiums on certain policies issued by qualified health plans under the ACA. Finally, while Congress has not passed comprehensive ACA repeal or replace legislation, the federal income tax legislation signed into law on December 22, 2017 includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the ACA on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the \"individual mandate\". We continue to evaluate the effect that the ACA and additional actions by Congress to possibly repeal and replace it has on our business.. In addition, drug pricing by pharmaceutical companies has come under increased scrutiny. Specifically, there have been several recent state and U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed federal and state legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing by requiring drug companies to notify insurers and government regulators of price increases and provide an explanation of the reasons for the increase, reduce the out-of-pocket cost of prescription drugs, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, reduce the cost of drugs under Medicare, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies. Legislation was recently signed into law in California that requires drug manufactures to provide advance notice and explanation to state regulators, health plans and insurers and PBMs for price increases of more than 16% over two years. Moreover, U.S. President Donald Trump has discussed the need for federal legislation, regulation or Executive Order to regulate the prices of medicines. For example, the Trump administration's budget proposal for the U.S. government's fiscal year 2019 contains further drug price control measures that could be enacted during the 2019 budget process or in other future legislation, including, for example, measures to permit Medicare Part D plans to negotiate the price of certain drugs under Medicare Part B, to allow some states to negotiate drug prices under Medicaid and to eliminate cost sharing for generic drugs for low-income patients. While any proposed measures will require Congress to pass legislation to become effective, these provisions reinforce the administration's focus on controlling drug prices. The majority of our medicines are purchased by private payers, and much of the focus of pending legislation is on government program reimbursement. However, we cannot know what form any such action may take, the likelihood it would be executed, enacted, effectuated or implemented or the market's perception of how such legislation would affect us. Any reduction in reimbursement from government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments. 59. from private payers. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability, or commercialize our current medicines and/or those for which we may receive regulatory approval in the future.. We are subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse and false claims laws, privacy and security laws and regulations. Prosecutions under such laws have increased in recent years and we may become subject to such litigation. If we are unable to comply, or have not fully complied, with such laws, we could face substantial penalties.. In the United States, we are subject directly, or indirectly through our customers, to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal False Claims Act, civil monetary penalty statutes prohibiting beneficiary inducements, and similar state laws, federal and state privacy and security laws, sunshine laws, government price reporting laws, and other fraud laws. These laws may impact, among other things, our current and proposed sales, marketing and educational programs, as well as other possible relationships with customers, pharmacies, physicians, payers, and patients. We are subject to similar laws in the EU/EEA, including (effective as of May 25, 2018) the EU General Data Protection Regulation (2016/679), under which fines of up to \20020.0 million or up to 4% of the annual global turnover of the infringer, whichever is greater, could be imposed for significant non-compliance.. Compliance with these laws, including the development of a comprehensive compliance program, is difficult, costly and time consuming. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of available statutory and regulatory exemptions, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. These risks may be increased where there are evolving interpretations of applicable regulatory requirements, such as those applicable to manufacturer co-pay initiatives. Pharmaceutical manufacturer co-pay initiatives and free medicine programs are the subject of ongoing litigation (involving other manufacturers and to which we are not a party) and evolving interpretations of applicable regulatory requirements and certain state laws, and any change in the regulatory or enforcement environment regarding such programs could impact our ability to offer such programs. If we are unsuccessful with our HorizonCares programs, any other co-pay initiatives or free medicine programs, we would be at a competitive disadvantage in terms of pricing versus preferred branded and generic competitors, or be subject to significant penalties. We are engaged in various business arrangements with current and potential customers, and we can give no assurance that such arrangements would not be subject to scrutiny under such laws, despite our efforts to properly structure such arrangements. Even if we structure our programs with the intent of compliance with such laws, there can be no certainty that we would not need to defend our business activities against enforcement or litigation. Further, we cannot give any assurances that prior business activities or arrangements of other companies that we acquire will not be scrutinized or subject to enforcement or litigation.. There has also been a trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians and other healthcare providers. The ACA, among other things, imposed reporting requirements on drug manufacturers for payments made by them to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Failure to submit required information may result in significant civil monetary penalties.. We are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under any of these or other healthcare laws, or the impact of such actions. If we are found to be in violation of, or to encourage or assist the violation by third parties of any of the laws described above or other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, withdrawal of regulatory approval, imprisonment, exclusion from government healthcare reimbursement programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, injunctions and other associated remedies, or private \"qui tam\" actions brought by individual whistleblowers in the name of the government, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. 60. Our medicines or any other medicine candidate that we develop may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent regulatory approval or commercialization, result in medicine re-labeling or withdrawal from the market or have a significant impact on customer demand.. Undesirable side effects caused by any medicine candidate that we develop could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, or cause us to evaluate the future of our development programs. With respect to RAVICTI, the most common side effects are diarrhea, nausea, decreased appetite, gas, vomiting, high blood levels of ammonia, headache, tiredness and dizziness. With respect to PROCYSBI, the most common side effects include vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, breath odor, diarrhea, skin odor, fatigue, rash and headache. The most common side effects observed in pivotal trials for ACTIMMUNE were \"flu-like\" or constitutional symptoms such as fever, headache, chills, myalgia and fatigue. With respect to BUPHENYL, the most common side effects are change in the frequency of breathing, lack of or irregular menstruation, lower back, side, or stomach pain, mood or mental changes, muscle pain or twitching, nausea or vomiting, nervousness or restlessness, swelling of the feet or lower legs, unpleasant taste and unusual tiredness or weakness. With respect to QUINSAIR, the most common side effects include itching, wheezing, hives, rash, swelling, pale skin color, fast heartbeat and faintness. With respect to KRYSTEXXA, the most commonly reported serious adverse reactions in the pivotal trial were gout flares, infusion reactions, nausea, contusion or ecchymosis, nasopharyngitis, constipation, chest pain, anaphylaxis, exacerbation of pre-existing congestive heart failure and vomiting. The most commonly reported treatment-emergent adverse events in the Phase 3 clinical trials with RAYOS/LODOTRA included flare in rheumatoid arthritis related symptoms, abdominal pain, nasopharyngitis, headache, flushing, upper respiratory tract infection, back pain and weight gain. The most common adverse events reported in a Phase 2 clinical trial of PENNSAID 2% were application site reactions, such as dryness, exfoliation, erythema, pruritus, pain, induration, rash and scabbing. In our two Phase 3 clinical trials with DUEXIS, the most commonly reported treatment-emergent adverse events were nausea, dyspepsia, diarrhea, constipation and upper respiratory tract infection. In Phase 3 endoscopic registration clinical trials with VIMOVO, the most commonly reported treatment-emergent adverse events were erosive gastritis, dyspepsia, gastritis, diarrhea, gastric ulcer, upper abdominal pain, nausea and upper respiratory tract infection. With respect to MIGERGOT, the most commonly reported adverse reactions are ischemia, cyanosis, absence of pulse, cold extremities, gangrene, precordial distress and pain, electrocardiogram change, muscle pain, nausea and vomiting, rectal or anal ulcer, parathesias, numbness weakness, vertigo, localized edemas and itching.. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may also require, or we may undertake, additional clinical trials to support the safety profile of our medicines or medicine candidates.. In addition, if we or others identify undesirable side effects caused by our medicines or any other medicine candidate that we may develop that receives marketing approval, or if there is a perception that the medicine is associated with undesirable side effects:. •  regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a \"black box\" warning or a contraindication;. •  regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the medicine or place restrictions on the way it is prescribed;. •  we may be required to change the way the medicine is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the medicine or implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy; and. •  we may be subject to increased exposure to product liability and/or personal injury claims.. If any of these events occurred with respect to our medicines, our ability to generate significant revenues from the sale of these medicines would be significantly harmed.. We rely on third parties to conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines or if they experience regulatory compliance issues, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our medicine candidates and our business could be substantially harmed.. We have agreements with third-party contract research organizations, or CROs, to conduct our clinical programs, including those required for post-marketing commitments, and we expect to continue to rely on CROs for the completion of on-going and planned clinical trials. We may also have the need to enter into other such agreements in the future if we were to develop other medicine candidates or conduct clinical trials in additional indications for our existing medicines. We have an agreement in place with Syneos Health, Inc., in connection with our Phase 3 confirmatory trial to evaluate teprotumumab. 61. for the treatment of thyroid eye disease. In connection with the investigator-initiated study to evaluate ACTIMMUNE in combination with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors in various forms of cancer including advanced urothelial carcinoma (bladder cancer) and renal cell carcinoma, we are collaborating with Fox Chase Cancer Center. In connection with our ongoing study to evaluate RAYOS/LODOTRA on the fatigue experienced by SLE patients, we are collaborating with the ALR. We also rely heavily on these parties for the execution of our clinical studies and control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol. We, our CROs and our academic research organizations are required to comply with current GCP or ICH regulations. The FDA enforces these GCP or ICH regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or our CROs or collaborators fail to comply with applicable GCP or ICH regulations, the data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and our submission of marketing applications may be delayed or the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure that, upon inspection, the FDA will determine that any of our clinical trials comply or complied with GCP or ICH regulations. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with medicine produced under cGMP regulations, and may require a large number of test subjects. Our failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. Moreover, our business may be implicated if any of our CROs or collaborators violates federal or state fraud and abuse or false claims laws and regulations or healthcare privacy and security laws. We must also obtain certain third-party institutional review board, or IRB, and ethics committee approvals in order to conduct our clinical trials. Delays by IRBs and ethics committees in providing such approvals may delay our clinical trials.. If any of our relationships with these third-party CROs or collaborators terminate, we may not be able to enter into similar arrangements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If CROs or collaborators do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our medicines and medicine candidates. As a result, our results of operations and the commercial prospects for our medicines and medicine candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed.. Switching or adding additional CROs or collaborators can involve substantial cost and require extensive management time and focus. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO or collaborator commences work. As a result, delays may occur, which can materially impact our ability to meet our desired clinical development timelines. Though we carefully manage our relationships with our CROs and collaborators, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter similar challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or prospects.. Clinical development of drugs and biologics involves a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results.. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. The results of pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials of potential medicine candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. Medicine candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through pre-clinical studies and initial clinical testing. For example, in December 2016, we announced that the Phase 3 trial, Safety, Tolerability and Efficacy of ACTIMMUNE Dose Escalation in Friedreich's Ataxia, evaluating ACTIMMUNEfor the treatment of Friedreich's ataxia, or FA, did not meet its primary endpoint.. With respect to investigator-initiated studies for several of our products, and with respect to the Phase 3 pivotal clinical trial of teprotumumab in thyroid eye disease that we commenced in the fourth quarter of 2017, and to the extent that we are required to conduct additional clinical development of any of our existing or later acquired medicines or we conduct clinical development of earlier stage medicine candidates, we may experience delays in these clinical trials or investigator-initiated studies. We do not know whether any additional clinical trials will be initiated in the future, begin on time, need to be redesigned, enroll patients on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays related to:. •  obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial;. •  reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites;. 62. •  obtaining IRB or ethics committee approval at each site;. •  recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial;. •  having patients complete a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up;. •  clinical sites dropping out of a trial;. •  adding new sites; or. •  manufacturing sufficient quantities of medicine candidates for use in clinical trials.. Patient enrollment, a significant factor in the timing of clinical trials, is affected by many factors including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials and clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages of the medicine candidate being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs or biologics that may be approved for the indications we are investigating. Furthermore, we rely and expect to rely on CROs and clinical trial sites to ensure the proper and timely conduct of our future clinical trials and while we have and intend to have agreements governing their committed activities, we will have limited influence over their actual performance.. We could encounter delays if prescribing physicians encounter unresolved ethical issues associated with enrolling patients in clinical trials of our medicine candidates in lieu of prescribing existing treatments that have established safety and efficacy profiles. Further, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, our collaborators, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a medicine candidate, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If we experience delays in the completion of, or if we terminate, any clinical trial of our medicine candidates, the commercial prospects of our medicine candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate medicine revenues from any of these medicine candidates will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our medicine development and approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence medicine sales and generate revenues.. Moreover, principal investigators for our clinical trials may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to us from time to time and receive compensation in connection with such services. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to report some of these relationships to the FDA. The FDA may conclude that a financial relationship between us and a principal investigator has created a conflict of interest or otherwise affected interpretation of the study. The FDA may therefore question the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical trial site and the utility of the clinical trial itself may be jeopardized. This could result in a delay in approval, or rejection, of our marketing applications by the FDA and may ultimately lead to the denial of marketing approval of one or more of our medicine candidates.. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects significantly. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our medicine candidates.. Business interruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or man-made disasters or business interruptions. While we carry insurance for certain of these events and have implemented disaster management plans and contingencies, the occurrence of any of these business interruptions could seriously harm our business and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. We conduct significant management operations at both our global headquarters located in Dublin, Ireland and our U.S. office located in Lake Forest, Illinois. If our Dublin or Lake Forest offices were affected by a natural or man-made disaster or other business interruption, our ability to manage our domestic and foreign operations could be impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We currently rely, and intend to rely in the future, on third-party manufacturers and suppliers to produce our medicines and third-party logistics partners to ship our medicines. Our ability to obtain commercial supplies of our medicines could be disrupted and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if the operations of these third-party suppliers or logistics partners were affected by a man-made or natural disaster or other business interruption. The ultimate impact of such events on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure is unknown.. 63. We are dependent on information technology systems, infrastructure and data, which exposes us to data security risks.. We are dependent upon our own or third-party information technology systems, infrastructure and data, including mobile technologies, to operate our business. The multitude and complexity of our computer systems may make them vulnerable to service interruption or destruction, malicious intrusion, or random attack. Likewise, data privacy or security breaches by employees or others may pose a risk that sensitive data, including our intellectual property, trade secrets or personal information of our employees, patients, customers or other business partners may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. Cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity. Cyber-attacks could include the deployment of harmful malware, denial-of-service, social engineering and other means to affect service reliability and threaten data confidentiality, integrity and availability. Our business partners face similar risks and any security breach of their systems could adversely affect our security posture. A security breach or privacy violation that leads to disclosure or modification of or prevents access to patient information, including personally identifiable information or protected health information, could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with federal and/or state breach notification laws and foreign law equivalents, subject us to mandatory corrective action, require us to verify the correctness of database contents and otherwise subject us to litigation or other liability under laws and regulations that protect personal data, any of which could disrupt our business and/or result in increased costs or loss of revenue. Moreover, the prevalent use of mobile devices that access confidential information increases the risk of data security breaches, which could lead to the loss of confidential information, trade secrets or other intellectual property. While we have invested, and continue to invest, in the protection of our data and information technology infrastructure, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions, or identify breaches in our systems, that could adversely affect our business and operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive information, which could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to us. In addition, our liability insurance may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber-attacks and other related breaches.. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our medicines.. We face an inherent risk of product liability claims as a result of the commercial sales of our medicines and the clinical testing of our medicine candidates. For example, we may be sued if any of our medicines or medicine candidates allegedly causes injury or is found to be otherwise unsuitable during clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the medicine, negligence, strict liability or a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our medicines and medicine candidates. Even a successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. •  decreased demand for our medicines or medicine candidates that we may develop;. •  injury to our reputation;. •  withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. •  initiation of investigations by regulators;. •  costs to defend the related litigation;. •  a diversion of management's time and resources;. •  substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients;. •  medicine recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions;. •  loss of revenue;. •  exhaustion of any available insurance and our capital resources; and. •  the inability to commercialize our medicines or medicine candidates.. 64. Our inability to obtain and retain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of medicines we develop. We currently carry product liability insurance covering our clinical studies and commercial medicine sales in the amount of $125.0 million in the aggregate. Although we maintain such insurance, any claim that may be brought against us could result in a court judgment or settlement in an amount that is not covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance or that is in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. If we determine that it is prudent to increase our product liability coverage due to the on-going commercialization of our current medicines in the United States, and/or the potential commercial launches of any of our medicines in additional markets or for additional indications, we may be unable to obtain such increased coverage on acceptable terms or at all. Our insurance policies also have various exclusions, and we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no coverage. We will have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not covered by our insurance, and we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pay such amounts.. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and we and our third-party manufacturers must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business.. Our third-party manufacturers' activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials owned by us, including the components of our medicine candidates and other hazardous compounds. We and our manufacturers are subject to federal, state and local as well as foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by our third-party manufacturers for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state, federal or foreign authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. We do not currently maintain hazardous materials insurance coverage. If we are subject to any liability as a result of our third-party manufacturers' activities involving hazardous materials, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. In the future we may seek to establish longer-term third-party manufacturing arrangements, pursuant to which we would seek to obtain contractual indemnification protection from such third-party manufacturers potentially limiting this liability exposure.. Our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, vendors, distributors and CROs may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements.. We are exposed to the risk that our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, vendors, distributors and CROs may engage in fraudulent or other illegal activity. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct or unauthorized activities that violate FDA regulations, including those laws that require the reporting of true, complete and accurate information to the FDA, manufacturing standards, federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and laws that require the true, complete and accurate reporting of financial information or data. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, misconduct, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Misconduct by our employees and other third parties may also include the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, but it is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct by our employees and other third parties, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment.. 65. Risks Related to our Financial Position and Capital Requirements. In the past we have incurred significant operating losses.. We have a limited operating history and even less history operating as a combined organization following the acquisitions of Vidara, Hyperion, Crealta Holdings LLC, or Crealta, Raptor and River Vision Development Corp., or River Vision. We have financed our operations primarily through equity and debt financings and have incurred significant operating losses in the past. We had an operating loss of $392.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, an operating loss of $147.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and operating income of $55.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. We had a net loss of $410.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, a net loss of $166.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and net income of $39.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,252.3 million. Our prior losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in our development activities for our medicines and medicine candidates, commercialization activities related to our medicines, costs associated with our acquisition transactions and costs associated with derivative liability accounting. Our prior losses, combined with possible future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our shareholders' equity and working capital. While we anticipate that we will generate operating profits in the future, whether we can sustain this will depend on the revenues we generate from the sale of our medicines being sufficient to cover our operating expenses.. We have limited sources of revenues and significant expenses. We cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability, which would depress the market price of our ordinary shares and could cause our investors to lose all or a part of their investment.. Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability depends upon our ability to generate sales of our medicines. We have a limited history of commercializing our medicines as a company, and commercialization has been primarily in the United States. We may never be able to successfully commercialize our medicines or develop or commercialize other medicines in the United States or in the EU, which we believe represents our most significant commercial opportunity. Our ability to generate future revenues depends heavily on our success in:. •  continued commercialization of our existing medicines and any other medicine candidates for which we obtain approval;. •  obtaining FDA approvals for teprotumumab, additional indications for ACTIMMUNE or an expanded indication for RAVICTI;. •  securing additional foreign regulatory approvals for our medicines in territories where we have commercial rights; and. •  developing, acquiring and commercializing a portfolio of other medicines or medicine candidates in addition to our current medicines.. Even if we do generate additional medicine sales, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable would depress the market price of our ordinary shares and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our medicine offerings or continue our operations.. We may need to obtain additional financing to fund additional acquisitions.. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to:. •  commercialize our existing medicines in the United States, including the substantial expansion of our sales force in recent years;. •  complete the regulatory approval process, and any future required clinical development related thereto, for our medicines and medicine candidates;. •  potentially acquire other businesses or additional complementary medicines or medicines that augment our current medicine portfolio, including costs associated with refinancing debt of acquired companies; and. •  conduct clinical trials with respect to potential additional indications, as well as conduct post-marketing requirements and commitments, with respect to our medicines and medicines we acquire.. 66. While we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our operations based on our current expectations of continued revenue growth, we may need to raise additional funds if we choose to expand our commercialization or development efforts more rapidly than presently anticipated, if we develop or acquire additional medicines or acquire companies, or if our revenue does not meet expectations.. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our medicines or medicine candidates or one or more of our other research and development initiatives, or delay, cut back or abandon our plans to grow the business through acquisitions. We also could be required to:. •  seek collaborators for one or more of our current or future medicine candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; or. •  relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or medicine candidates that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves.. In addition, if we are unable to secure financing to support future acquisitions, our ability to execute on a key aspect of our overall growth strategy would be impaired.. Any of the above events could significantly harm our business, financial condition and prospects.. We have incurred a substantial amount of debt, which could adversely affect our business, including by restricting our ability to engage in additional transactions or incur additional indebtedness, and prevent us from meeting our debt obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $1,901.7 million book value, or $2,020.8 million aggregate principal amount, of indebtedness, including $845.8 million in secured indebtedness. In March 2017, we borrowed $850.0 million in aggregate principal amount of secured loans pursuant to our credit agreement. In October 2017, we borrowed approximately $845.8 million aggregate principal amount of loans under our credit agreement pursuant to an amendment to our credit agreement to refinance the then outstanding senior secured term loans incurred in March 2017 under our credit agreement, which totaled approximately $845.8 million. In connection with the acquisition of Hyperion, we issued $475.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.625% Senior Notes due 2023, or the 2023 Senior Notes, in April 2015. In connection with the acquisition of Raptor, we issued $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8.75% Senior Notes due 2024, or the 2024 Senior Notes, in October 2016. In March 2015, we issued $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.50% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2022, or the Exchangeable Senior Notes. Accordingly, we have a significant amount of debt outstanding on a consolidated basis.. This substantial level of debt could have important consequences to our business, including, but not limited to:. •  reducing the benefits we expect to receive from our prior and any future acquisition transactions;. •  making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;. •  requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities;. •  exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates to the extent of any future borrowings, including borrowings under our credit agreement, at variable rates of interest;. •  making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including our outstanding notes, our credit agreement, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness;. •  increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to respond to, changes in our business or general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes and increasing the cost of any such financing;. 67. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors, to the extent they are not as highly leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage may prevent us from exploiting; and. •  restricting us from pursuing certain business opportunities.. The credit agreement and the indentures governing the 2024 Senior Notes and the 2023 Senior Notes impose, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, various covenants that limit our ability and/or the ability of our restricted subsidiaries' (as designated under such agreements) to, among other things, pay dividends or distributions, repurchase equity, prepay junior debt and make certain investments, incur additional debt and issue certain preferred stock, incur liens on assets, engage in certain asset sales, consolidate with or merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets, enter into transactions with affiliates, designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries, and allow to exist certain restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us.. Our ability to obtain future financing and engage in other transactions may be restricted by these covenants. In addition, any credit ratings will impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and our cost of capital. Our ratings at any time will reflect each rating organization's then opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. There can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future. A reduction in our credit ratings may limit our ability to borrow at acceptable interest rates. If our credit ratings were downgraded or put on watch for a potential downgrade, we may not be able to sell additional debt securities or borrow money in the amounts, at the times or interest rates or upon the more favorable terms and conditions that might otherwise be available. Any impairment of our ability to obtain future financing on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our ability to refinance any of our then-existing debt and may severely restrict our ability to execute on our business strategy, which includes the continued acquisition of additional medicines or businesses.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments under or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic, industry and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Our ability to generate cash flow to meet our payment obligations under our debt may also depend on the successful implementation of our operating and growth strategies. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. We cannot assure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or business operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot ensure that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including the indentures that govern the 2024 Senior Notes and the 2023 Senior Notes and the credit agreement. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness.. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result:. •  our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable;. •  the administrative agent and/or the lenders under the credit agreement could foreclose against the assets securing the borrowings then outstanding; and. •  we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, which could result in you losing your investment.. 68. We generally have broad discretion in the use of our cash and may not use it effectively.. Our management has broad discretion in the application of our cash, and investors will be relying on the judgment of our management regarding the use of our cash. Our management may not apply our cash in ways that ultimately increase the value of any investment in our securities. We expect to use our existing cash to fund commercialization activities for our medicines, to potentially fund additional medicine or business acquisitions, to potentially fund additional regulatory approvals of certain of our medicines, to potentially fund development, life cycle management or manufacturing activities of our medicines for other indications, to potentially fund share repurchases, and for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. We may also invest our cash in short-term, investment-grade, interest-bearing securities. These investments may not yield a favorable return to our shareholders. If we do not invest or apply our cash in ways that enhance shareholder value, we may fail to achieve expected financial results, which could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes to offset U.S. income taxes may be limited.. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Code, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" (generally defined as a greater than 50 percent change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period), the corporation's ability to use pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset post-change income may be limited. We continue to carry forward our annual limitation resulting from an ownership change date of August 2, 2012. The limitation on pre-change net operating losses incurred prior to the August 2, 2012 change date is approximately $7.7 million for 2018 through 2028. We continue to carry forward the annual limitation related to Hyperion of $50.0 million resulting from the last ownership change date in 2014 and the annual limitation related to Raptor of $0.2 million resulting from the last ownership change date in 2009. In addition, in the second quarter of 2017, we recognized $37.4 million of federal net operating losses, $43.2 million of state net operating losses and $5.8 million of federal tax credits following our acquisition of River Vision Development Corp. These acquired federal net operating losses and tax credits are subject to an annual limitation of $12.5 million from 2018 through 2021. The net operating loss carryforward limitation is cumulative such that any use of the carryforwards below the limitations in one year will result in a corresponding increase in the limitations for the subsequent tax year. Under the Tax Act, U.S. federal net operating losses incurred in 2018 and in future years may be carried forward indefinitely, but the deductibility of such federal net operating losses is limited. It is uncertain if and to what extent various U.S. states will conform to the Tax Act.. Following certain acquisitions of a U.S. corporation by a foreign corporation, Section 7874 of the Code limits the ability of the acquired U.S. corporation and its U.S. affiliates to utilize U.S. tax attributes such as net operating losses to offset U.S. taxable income resulting from certain transactions. Based on the limited guidance available, we expect this limitation is applicable following the Vidara Merger. As a result, it is not currently expected that we or our other U.S. affiliates will be able to utilize their U.S. tax attributes to offset their U.S. taxable income, if any, resulting from certain taxable transactions following the Vidara Merger. Notwithstanding this limitation, we expect that we will be able to fully use our U.S. net operating losses and tax credits prior to their expiration. As a result of this limitation, however, it may take HPI longer to use its net operating losses and tax credits. Moreover, contrary to these expectations, it is possible that the limitation under Section 7874 of the Code on the utilization of U.S. tax attributes could prevent us from fully utilizing our U.S. tax attributes prior to their expiration if we do not generate sufficient taxable income.. Any limitation on our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, including the carryforwards of companies that we acquire, will likely increase the taxes we would otherwise pay in future years if we were not subject to such limitations.. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and share price.. From time to time, global credit and financial markets have experienced extreme disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by any such economic downturn, volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the equity and credit markets deteriorate, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult to complete, more costly, and more dilutive. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and share price and could require us to delay or abandon commercialization or development plans. There is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive an economic down-turn, which could directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget.. 69. The U.K.'s referendum to leave the EU or \"Brexit,\" has caused and may continue to cause disruptions to capital and currency markets worldwide. The full impact of the Brexit decision, however, remains uncertain. A process of negotiation will determine the future terms of the U.K.'s relationship with the EU. During this period of negotiation, our results of operations and access to capital may be negatively affected by interest rate, exchange rate and other market and economic volatility, as well as regulatory and political uncertainty. The tax consequences of the U.K.'s withdrawal from the EU are uncertain as well. Brexit may also have a detrimental effect on our customers, distributors and suppliers, which would, in turn, adversely affect our revenues and financial condition.. At December 31, 2017, we had $751.4 million of cash and cash equivalents consisting of cash and money market funds. While we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents since December 31, 2017, no assurance can be given that deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or our ability to meet our financing objectives. Dislocations in the credit market may adversely impact the value and/or liquidity of marketable securities owned by us.. Changes in accounting rules or policies may affect our financial position and results of operations.. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new guidance or the application of existing guidance to changes in our business could significantly affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, our operation as an Irish company with multiple subsidiaries in different jurisdictions adds additional complexity to the application of GAAP and this complexity will be exacerbated further if we complete additional strategic transactions. Changes in the application of existing rules or guidance applicable to us or our wholly owned subsidiaries could significantly affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations.. Covenants under the indentures governing our 2024 Senior Notes and 2023 Senior Notes and our credit agreement may restrict our business and operations in many ways, and if we do not effectively manage our covenants, our financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The indentures governing the 2024 Senior Notes and the 2023 Senior Notes and the credit agreement impose various covenants that limit our ability and/or our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. •  pay dividends or distributions, repurchase equity, prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt and make certain investments;. •  incur additional debt and issue certain preferred stock;. •  provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons;. •  incur liens on assets;. •  engage in certain asset sales;. •  merge, consolidate with or sell all or substantially all of our assets to another person;. •  enter into transactions with affiliates;. •  sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries;. •  enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries;. •  designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and. •  allow to exist certain restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us.. These covenants may:. •  limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes;. •  limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes;. 70. •  require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments;. •  limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry;. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors; and. •  increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions.. If we are unable to successfully manage the limitations and decreased flexibility on our business due to our significant debt obligations, we may not be able to capitalize on strategic opportunities or grow our business to the extent we would be able to without these limitations.. Our failure to comply with any of the covenants could result in a default under the credit agreement or the indentures governing the 2024 Senior Notes or the 2023 Senior Notes, which could permit the administrative agent or the trustee, as applicable, or permit the lenders or the holders of the 2024 Senior Notes or the 2023 Senior Notes to cause the administrative agent or the trustee, as applicable, to declare all or part of any outstanding senior secured term loans, the 2023 Senior Notes or the 2024 Senior Notes to be immediately due and payable or to exercise any remedies provided to the administrative agent or the trustee, including, in the case of the credit agreement proceeding against the collateral granted to secure our obligations under the credit agreement. An event of default under the credit agreement or the indentures governing the 2024 Senior Notes or the 2023 Senior Notes could also lead to an event of default under the terms of the other agreements and the indenture governing our Exchangeable Senior Notes. Any such event of default or any exercise of rights and remedies by our creditors could seriously harm our business.. If intangible assets that we have recorded in connection with our acquisition transactions become impaired, we could have to take significant charges against earnings.. In connection with the accounting for our various acquisition transactions, we have recorded significant amounts of intangible assets. Under GAAP, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets has been impaired. Amortizing intangible assets will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders' equity in future periods.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to obtain or protect intellectual property rights related to our medicines and medicine candidates, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets.. We rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our medicines and medicine candidates. The strength of patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. The patent applications that we own may fail to result in issued patents with claims that cover our medicines in the United States or in other foreign countries. If this were to occur, early generic competition could be expected against our current medicines and other medicine candidates in development. There is no assurance that all potentially relevant prior art relating to our patents and patent applications has been found, which prior art can invalidate a patent or prevent a patent from issuing based on a pending patent application. In particular, because the APIs in RAYOS/LODOTRA, DUEXIS and VIMOVO have been on the market as separate medicines for many years, it is possible that these medicines have previously been used off-label in such a manner that such prior usage would affect the validity of our patents or our ability to obtain patents based on our patent applications. In addition, claims directed to dosing and dose adjustment may be substantially less likely to issue in light of the Supreme Court decision in Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc., where the court held that claims directed to methods of determining whether to adjust drug dosing levels based on drug metabolite levels in the red blood cells were not patent eligible because they were directed to a law of nature. This decision may have wide-ranging implications on the validity and scope of pharmaceutical method claims.. Even if patents do successfully issue, third parties may challenge their validity, enforceability or scope, which may result in such patents being narrowed or invalidated.. 71. Patent litigation is currently pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Par Pharmaceutical and in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Lupin and against Par Pharmaceutical, who are each intending to market generic versions of RAVICTI prior to the expiration of certain of our patents listed in the Orange Book. These cases are collectively known as the RAVICTI cases, and arise from Paragraph IV Patent Certification notice letters from each of Par Pharmaceutical and Lupin advising each had filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of RAVICTI before the expiration of the patents-in-suit. For a more detailed description of the RAVICTI litigation, see Note 19 of the Notes to consolidated financial statements, included in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Patent litigation is currently pending in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey and the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit against several companies intending to market a generic version of VIMOVO before the expiration of certain of our patents listed in the Orange Book. These cases are collectively known as the VIMOVO cases, and involve the following sets of defendants: (i) Dr. Reddy's; (ii) Lupin; and (iii) Mylan. Patent litigation against a fourth generic company, Actavis, is currently pending in the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The cases arise from Paragraph IV Patent Certification notice letters from each of Dr. Reddy's, Lupin, Mylan and Actavis, advising each had filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions of VIMOVO before the expiration of the patents-in-suit. For a more detailed description of the VIMOVO litigation, see Note 19 of the Notes to consolidated financial statements, included in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Patent litigation is currently pending in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against two companies intending to market a generic version of PENNSAID 2% prior to the expiration of certain of our patents listed in the Orange Book. These cases are collectively known as the PENNSAID 2% cases, and involve the following sets of defendants: (i) Actavis and (ii) Lupin. These cases arise from Paragraph IV Patent Certification notice letters from each of Actavis and Lupin advising each had filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of PENNSAID 2% before the expiration of the patents-in-suit. For a more detailed description of the PENNSAID 2% litigation, see Note 19 of the Notes to consolidated financial statements, included in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights relating to our medicines, but we cannot predict the outcome of the RAVICTI cases, the PENNSAID 2% cases and the VIMOVO cases. Any adverse outcome in these matters or any new generic challenges that may arise could result in one or more generic versions of our medicines being launched before the expiration of the listed patents, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to increase sales of our medicines, and would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, including causing a significant decrease in our revenues and cash flows.. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents and patent applications may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around our claims. If the patent applications we hold with respect to our medicines fail to issue or if their breadth or strength of protection is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to develop them and threaten our ability to commercialize our medicines. We cannot offer any assurances about which, if any, patents will issue or whether any issued patents will be found not invalid and not unenforceable or will go unthreatened by third parties. Since patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time after filing, and some remain so until issued, we cannot be certain that we were the first to file any patent application related to our medicines or any other medicine candidates. Furthermore, if third parties have filed such patent applications, an interference proceeding in the United States can be provoked by a third-party or instituted by us to determine which party was the first to invent any of the subject matter covered by the patent claims of our applications.. With respect to RAVICTI, the composition of matter patent we hold would have expired in the United States in February 2015 without term extension. However, Hyperion applied for a term extension for this patent under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act and received notice that the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the U.S. PTO, extended the expiration date of the patent to July 28, 2018, and to 2022 with respect to orphan drug exclusivity. We cannot guarantee that pending patent applications related to RAVICTI will result in additional patents or that other existing and future patents related to RAVICTI will be held valid and enforceable or will be sufficient to deter generic competition in the United States. Therefore, it is possible that upon expiration of the RAVICTI composition of matter patent, we would need to rely on forms of regulatory exclusivity, to the extent available, to protect against generic competition.. 72. In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and any other elements of our drug discovery and development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents. Although we expect all of our employees to assign their inventions to us, and all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot provide any assurances that all such agreements have been duly executed or that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques.. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. For example, if the issuance, in a given country, of a patent to us, covering an invention, is not followed by the issuance, in other countries, of patents covering the same invention, or if any judicial interpretation of the validity, enforceability, or scope of the claims in, or the written description or enablement in, a patent issued in one country is not similar to the interpretation given to the corresponding patent issued in another country, our ability to protect our intellectual property in those countries may be limited. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may materially diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. If we are unable to prevent material disclosure of the non-patented intellectual property related to our technologies to third parties, and there is no guarantee that we will have any such enforceable trade secret protection, we may not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may prevent or delay our development and commercialization efforts.. Our commercial success depends in part on us avoiding infringement of the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. There is a substantial amount of litigation, both within and outside the United States, involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including patent infringement lawsuits, interferences, oppositions and inter party reexamination proceedings before the U.S. PTO. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which our collaborators are developing medicine candidates. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our medicine candidates may be subject to claims of infringement of the patent rights of third parties.. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There may be third-party patents or patent applications with claims to materials, formulations, methods of manufacture or methods for treatment related to the use or manufacture of our medicines and/or any other medicine candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications, which may later result in issued patents that our medicine candidates may infringe. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. If any third-party patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover the manufacturing process of any of our medicine candidates, any molecules formed during the manufacturing process or any final medicine itself, the holders of any such patents may be able to block our ability to commercialize such medicine candidate unless we obtained a license under the applicable patents, or until such patents expire. Similarly, if any third-party patent were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover aspects of our formulations, processes for manufacture or methods of use, including combination therapy, the holders of any such patent may be able to block our ability to develop and commercialize the applicable medicine candidate unless we obtained a license or until such patent expires. In either case, such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our medicine candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees for willful infringement, obtain one or more licenses from third parties, pay royalties or redesign our infringing medicines, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. We cannot predict whether any such license would be available at all or whether it would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our medicine candidates, and we have done so from time to time. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to further. 73. develop and commercialize one or more of our medicine candidates, which could harm our business significantly. We cannot provide any assurances that third-party patents do not exist which might be enforced against our medicines, resulting in either an injunction prohibiting our sales, or, with respect to our sales, an obligation on our part to pay royalties and/or other forms of compensation to third parties.. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license rights to technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business.. We are party to a number of technology licenses that are important to our business and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. For example, we rely on a license from Ucyclyd with respect to technology developed by Ucyclyd in connection with the manufacturing of RAVICTI. The purchase agreement under which Hyperion purchased the worldwide rights to RAVICTI contains obligations to pay Ucyclyd regulatory and sales milestone payments relating to RAVICTI, as well as royalties on the net sales of RAVICTI. On May 31, 2013, when Hyperion acquired BUPHENYL under a restated collaboration agreement with Ucyclyd, Hyperion received a license to use some of the manufacturing technology developed by Ucyclyd in connection with the manufacturing of BUPHENYL. The restated collaboration agreement also contains obligations to pay Ucyclyd regulatory and sales milestone payments, as well as royalties on net sales of BUPHENYL. If we fail to make a required payment to Ucyclyd and do not cure the failure within the required time period, Ucyclyd may be able to terminate the license to use its manufacturing technology for RAVICTI and BUPHENYL. If we lose access to the Ucyclyd manufacturing technology, we cannot guarantee that an acceptable alternative method of manufacture could be developed or acquired. Even if alternative technology could be developed or acquired, the loss of the Ucyclyd technology could still result in substantial costs and potential periods where we would not be able to market and sell RAVICTI and/or BUPHENYL. We also license intellectual property necessary for commercialization of RAVICTI from an external party. This party may be entitled to terminate the license if we breach the agreement, including failure to pay required royalties on net sales of RAVICTI, or we do not meet specified diligence obligations in our development and commercialization of RAVICTI, and we do not cure the failure within the required time period. If the license is terminated, it may be difficult or impossible for us to continue to commercialize RAVICTI, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We also license rights to patents, know-how and trademarks for ACTIMMUNE from Genentech Inc., or Genentech, under an agreement that remains in effect for so long as we continue to commercialize and sell ACTIMMUNE. However, Genentech may terminate the agreement upon our material default, if not cured within a specified period of time. Genentech may also terminate the agreement in the event of our bankruptcy or insolvency. Upon such a termination of the agreement, all intellectual property rights conveyed to us under the agreement, including the rights to the ACTIMMUNE trademark, revert to Genentech. If we fail to comply with our obligations under this agreement, we could lose the ability to market and distribute ACTIMMUNE, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we are subject to contractual obligations under our agreements with Tripex and PARI related to QUINSAIR. Under the agreement with Tripex, we are required to pursue commercially reasonable efforts to initiate, and subsequently to complete, an additional clinical trial of QUINSAIR in a non-CF patient population within a specified period of time and an obligation to progress toward submitting an NDA for approval of QUINSAIR in the United States for use in all or part of the CF patient population. These obligations are subject to certain exceptions due to, for example, manufacturing delays not under our control, or delays caused by the FDA. If we fail to properly exercise such efforts to initiate and complete an appropriate clinical trial, or fail to submit an NDA for U.S. approval in the CF patient population, during the time periods specified in the agreement, we may be subject to various claims by Tripex and parties affiliated with Tripex. In addition, if we do not spend a minimum amount on QUINSAIR development in each of the three years following our acquisition of Raptor, we may also be obligated to pre-pay a milestone payment related to initiating a clinical trial for QUINSAIR in a non-CF indication. During October 2017, we triggered a milestone payment under this agreement, and we paid Tripex $20.0 million in November 2017. Under the license agreement with PARI, we are required to comply with diligence milestones related to development and commercialization of QUINSAIR in the United States and to spend a specified minimum amount per year on development activities in the United States until submission of the NDA for QUINSAIR in the United States. If we do not comply with these obligations, our licenses to certain intellectual property related to QUINSAIR may become non-exclusive in the United States or could be terminated. We are also subject to contractual obligations under our amended and restated license agreement with UCSD, with respect to PROCYSBI, including obligations to consider engaging in the development of PROCYSBI for the treatment of NASH and related diligence obligations if we undertake such development. Under the amended and restated license agreement with USCD, we also are subject to diligence obligations to identify a third party to undertake development of PROCYSBI for the treatment of Huntington's disease. To the extent that we fail to perform the diligence obligations under the agreement, UCSD may, with. 74. respect to such indication, terminate the license or otherwise cause the license to become non-exclusive. If one or more of these licenses was terminated, we would have no further right to use or exploit the related intellectual property, which would limit our ability to develop PROCYSBI or QUINSAIR in other indications, and could impact our ability to continue commercializing PROCYSBI or QUINSAIR in their approved indications.. We also hold an exclusive license to patents and technology from Duke University, or Duke, and Mountain View Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or MVP, covering KRYSTEXXA. Duke and MVP may terminate the license if we commit fraud or for our willful misconduct or illegal conduct. Duke and MVP may also terminate the license upon our material breach of the agreement, if not cured within a specified period of time, or upon written notice if we have committed two or more material breaches under the agreement. Duke and MVP may also terminate the license in the event of our bankruptcy or insolvency. If the license is terminated, it may be impossible for us to continue to commercialize KRYSTEXXA, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We hold an exclusive license to Vectura Group plc's, or Vectura, proprietary technology and know-how covering the delayed-release of corticosteroids relating to RAYOS/LODOTRA. If we fail to comply with our obligations under our agreement with Vectura or our other license agreements, or if we are subject to a bankruptcy, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we would not be able to market medicines covered by the license, including RAYOS/ LODOTRA.. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that one of our patents, or a patent of one of our licensors, is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing.. There are numerous post grant review proceedings available at the U.S. PTO (including inter partes review, post-grant review and ex-parte reexamination) and similar proceedings in other countries of the world that could be initiated by a third-party that could potentially negatively impact our issued patents.. Interference proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by us may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents or patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms. Our defense of litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our licensors, misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. There could also be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. Periodic maintenance fees on any issued patent are due to be paid to the U.S. PTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The U.S. PTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance. 75. events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. If we or licensors that control the prosecution and maintenance of our licensed patents fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our medicine candidates, our competitors might be able to enter the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties.. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed confidential information of our employees' former employers or other third parties. We may also be subject to claims that former employers or other third parties have an ownership interest in our patents. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. There is no guarantee of success in defending these claims, and even if we are successful, litigation could result in substantial cost and be a distraction to our management and other employees.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares. The market price of our ordinary shares historically has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile, and you could lose all or part of any investment in our ordinary shares.. The trading price of our ordinary shares has been volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this report, these factors include:. •  our failure to successfully execute our commercialization strategy with respect to our approved medicines, particularly our commercialization of our medicines in the United States;. •  actions or announcements by third-party or government payers with respect to coverage and reimbursement of our medicines;. •  disputes or other developments relating to intellectual property and other proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our medicines and medicine candidates;. •  unanticipated serious safety concerns related to the use of our medicines;. •  adverse regulatory decisions;. •  changes in laws or regulations applicable to our business, medicines or medicine candidates, including but not limited to clinical trial requirements for approvals or tax laws;. •  inability to comply with our debt covenants and to make payments as they become due;. •  inability to obtain adequate commercial supply for any approved medicine or inability to do so at acceptable prices;. •  developments concerning our commercial partners, including but not limited to those with our sources of manufacturing supply;. •  our decision to initiate a clinical trial, not to initiate a clinical trial or to terminate an existing clinical trial;. •  adverse results or delays in clinical trials;. •  our failure to successfully develop and/or acquire additional medicine candidates or obtain approvals for additional indications for our existing medicine candidates;. •  introduction of new medicines or services offered by us or our competitors;. •  overall performance of the equity markets, including the pharmaceutical sector, and general political and economic conditions;. •  failure to meet or exceed revenue and financial projections that we may provide to the public;. •  actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results;. •  failure to meet or exceed the estimates and projections of the investment community;. 76. •  inaccurate or significant adverse media coverage;. •  publication of research reports about us or our industry or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts;. •  our inability to successfully enter new markets;. •  the termination of a collaboration or the inability to establish additional collaborations;. •  announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors;. •  our inability to maintain an adequate rate of growth;. •  ineffectiveness of our internal controls or our inability to otherwise comply with financial reporting requirements;. •  adverse U.S. and foreign tax exposure;. •  additions or departures of key management, commercial or regulatory personnel;. •  issuances of debt or equity securities;. •  significant lawsuits, including patent or shareholder litigation;. •  changes in the market valuations of similar companies to us;. •  sales of our ordinary shares by us or our shareholders in the future;. •  trading volume of our ordinary shares;. •  effects of natural or man-made catastrophic events or other business interruptions; and. •  other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control.. In addition, the stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Global Select Market and the stock of biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance.. We have never declared or paid dividends on our share capital and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future, including due to limitations that are currently imposed by our credit agreement and the indentures governing the 2024 Senior Notes and the 2023 Senior Notes. Any return to shareholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, of our ordinary share price.. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company and our management will be required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives.. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In particular, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2000, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc., or NASDAQ, impose significant requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. These rules and regulations have substantially increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. These effects are exacerbated by our transition to an Irish company and the integration of numerous acquired businesses and operations into our historical business and operating structure. If these requirements divert the attention of our management and personnel from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The increased costs will continue to decrease our net income or increase our net loss, and may require us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our medicines or services. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain and maintain director and officer liability insurance.. 77. We cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs that we may incur to respond to these requirements. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. If we fail to comply with the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ, our ordinary shares could be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Select Market, which would adversely affect the liquidity of our ordinary shares and our ability to obtain future financing.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we are required to perform annual system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404. Our independent registered public accounting firm is also required to deliver a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our testing, or the testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management efforts, particularly because of our Irish parent company structure and international operations. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources.. New laws and regulations as well as changes to existing laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules adopted by the SEC and by NASDAQ, would likely result in increased costs as we respond to their requirements.. Sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market could cause our share price to decline.. If our existing shareholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, the trading price of such ordinary shares could decline. In addition, our ordinary shares that are either subject to outstanding options or reserved for future issuance under our employee benefit plans are or may become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting schedules and Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. If these additional ordinary shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline.. In addition, any conversion or exchange of our Exchangeable Senior Notes, whether pursuant to their terms or pursuant to privately negotiated transactions between the issuer and/or us and a holder of such securities, could depress the market price for our ordinary shares.. Future sales and issuances of our ordinary shares, securities convertible into our ordinary shares or rights to purchase ordinary shares or convertible securities could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our shareholders and could cause our share price to decline.. Additional capital may be needed in the future to continue our planned operations. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for ordinary shares, our shareholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell ordinary shares, and we may sell convertible or exchangeable securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell such ordinary shares, convertible or exchangeable securities or other equity securities in subsequent transactions, existing shareholders may be materially diluted. New investors in such subsequent transactions could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of ordinary shares. We also maintain equity incentive plans, including our Amended and Restated 2014 Equity Incentive Plan, 2014 Non-Employee Equity Plan and 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and intend to grant additional ordinary share awards under these and future plans, which will result in additional dilution to our existing shareholders.. 78. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland.. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Acts, which differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States.. Provisions of our articles of association could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third-party.. Our articles of association could delay, defer or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. For example, our articles of association:. •  impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at shareholder meetings;. •  stagger the terms of our board of directors into three classes; and. •  require the approval of a supermajority of the voting power of the shares of our share capital entitled to vote generally at a meeting of shareholders to amend or repeal our articles of association.. In addition, several mandatory provisions of Irish law could prevent or delay an acquisition of us. For example, Irish law does not permit shareholders of an Irish public limited company to take action by written consent with less than unanimous consent. We are also subject to various provisions of Irish law relating to mandatory bids, voluntary bids, requirements to make a cash offer and minimum price requirements, as well as substantial acquisition rules and rules requiring the disclosure of interests in our ordinary shares in certain circumstances.. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our ordinary shares at a premium over the market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our ordinary shares. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and our other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors, and could depress the market price of our ordinary shares.. 79. A transfer of our ordinary shares may be subject to Irish stamp duty.. In certain circumstances, the transfer of shares in an Irish incorporated company will be subject to Irish stamp duty, which is a legal obligation of the buyer. This duty is currently charged at the rate of 1.0 percent of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired, if higher. Because our ordinary shares are traded on a recognized stock exchange in the United States, an exemption from this stamp duty is available to transfers by shareholders who hold ordinary shares beneficially through brokers, which in turn hold those shares through the Depositary Trust Company, or DTC, to holders who also hold through DTC. However, a transfer by or to a record holder who holds ordinary shares directly in his, her or its own name could be subject to this stamp duty. We, in our absolute discretion and insofar as the Companies Acts or any other applicable law permit, may, or may provide that one of our subsidiaries will pay Irish stamp duty arising on a transfer of our ordinary shares on behalf of the transferee of such ordinary shares. If stamp duty resulting from the transfer of ordinary shares which would otherwise be payable by the transferee is paid by us or any of our subsidiaries on behalf of the transferee, then in those circumstances, we will, on our behalf or on behalf of such subsidiary (as the case may be), be entitled to (i) seek reimbursement of the stamp duty from the transferee, (ii) set-off the stamp duty against any dividends payable to the transferee of those ordinary shares and (iii) claim a first and permanent lien on the ordinary shares on which stamp duty has been paid by us or such subsidiary for the amount of stamp duty paid. Our lien shall extend to all dividends paid on those ordinary shares.. Dividends paid by us may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax.. In certain circumstances, as an Irish tax resident company, we will be required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. Shareholders that are resident in the United States, EU countries (other than Ireland) or other countries with which Ireland has signed a tax treaty (whether the treaty has been ratified or not) generally should not be subject to Irish withholding tax so long as the shareholder has provided its broker, for onward transmission to our qualifying intermediary or other designated agent (in the case of shares held beneficially), or our or its transfer agent (in the case of shares held directly), with all the necessary documentation by the appropriate due date prior to payment of the dividend. However, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our ordinary shares will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our rating or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on our company regularly, demand for our ordinary shares could decrease, which might cause our share price and trading volume to decline.. Securities class action litigation could divert our management's attention and harm our business and could subject us to significant liabilities.. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the equity securities of pharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. For example, following declines in our stock price, two federal securities class action lawsuits were filed in March 2016 against us and certain of our current and former officers alleging violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Subsequently, the two actions were consolidated (captioned Schaffer v. Horizon Pharma plc, et al., Case No. 1:16-cv-01763), and plaintiff added claims under the Securities Act and named additional defendants. On January 18, 2018, the District Court dismissed all plaintiffs' claims against all defendants, and denied the plaintiffs any further opportunity to amend their complaint. On February 16, 2018, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the District Court's ruling. Even if we are successful in defending this appeal or any similar claims that may be brought in the future, such litigation could result in substantial costs and may be a distraction to our management, and may lead to an unfavorable outcome that could adversely impact our financial condition and prospects.. 80"
