[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in federal, state and local education funding, and changes in legislation and public policy.. A majority of our sales are to public school districts in the United States, most of which rely primarily on a combination of local tax revenues and state legislative appropriations for general operating funds and to pay for purchases of goods and services, including instructional materials. Funding for public schools at both the state and local levels can be affected by tax collections, which are typically sensitive to general economic conditions, and by political and policy choices made by state and local governments. A reduction in funding levels, whether due to an economic downturn or legislative action, or a failure of projected funding increases to materialize, can constrain resources available to school districts for making purchases of instructional materials and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Some states, including a majority of adoption states, provide dedicated state funding for the purchase of instructional content and/or classroom technology, and expenditures for instructional materials in those states tend to be highly dependent on appropriation of those funds. If dedicated funding is not appropriated, or if the amount is substantially less than anticipated or legislative action is taken to lift restrictions on the use of those funds, then purchases of instructional materials may to be significantly reduced and our net sales may be adversely impacted.. In addition, many school districts, including most large urban districts, receive substantial federal funding through Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (\"ESEA\"), the Individuals with Disabilities Act (\"IDEA\"), and other federal education programs. These funds supplement state and local funding and are used primarily to serve specific populations, such as low-income students and families, students with disabilities, and English language learners as well as to support programs to improve the quality of instruction, including educator professional learning. The funding of these programs is subject to Congressional appropriation. A significant reduction in appropriation levels could have an adverse effect on our sales, particularly sales of intervention and professional learning products and services.. Federal and state legislative and policy changes can also affect our business. For example, recent changes to federal education law in the Every Student Succeeds Act (\"ESSA\") give states greater latitude in how they approach assessment and accountability, support and improvement of low performing schools, as well as accounting for the expenditure of federal program funds. The recent changes in ESSA also provided for new requirements regarding evidence of effectiveness of educational products and services purchased with federal funds. The recent changes in ESSA and state legislation and administrative policy decisions on matters such as assessment and accountability, curriculum and intervention with respect thereto could affect demand for our products.. State instructional materials adoptions, which account for a significant portion of our net sales of K-12 instructional materials, are highly cyclical and pose significant inherent risks that could materially impact our results of operations.. Due to the revolving and staggered nature of \"predetermined\" state adoption schedules, sales of K-12 instructional materials have traditionally been cyclical, with some years offering more and/or larger sales opportunities than others. Since a large portion of our sales are derived from state adoptions, our overall results can be materially affected from year to year by the adoption schedule, particularly in large adoption states. For example, over the next few years adoptions are scheduled or have already begun in one or more of the primary subjects of reading, language arts and literature, social studies, science and mathematics in, among other states, California, Florida and Texas, which are the three largest adoption states. Our failure to secure approval for our programs or perform according to our expectations in larger new adoption opportunities could materially and adversely affect our net sales for the year of the adoption and in subsequent years.. 13. In any state adoption, there is the inherent the risk that one or more of our programs will not be approved by a particular state board of education or other adopting authority. For example, our K-8 social studies materials were not adopted in California in 2017. While school districts in most adoption states, including California, are not precluded from purchasing materials that have not been approved by the state, in many cases, exclusion of a program on the state-adopted list can materially and adversely impact our ability to compete effectively at the school district level. Moreover, even if our program is approved by the state, we face significant competition and there is no guarantee that school districts will select our program or that we will be able to capture a meaningful share of the sales in such state.. State adoptions can be delayed, postponed or cancelled  -  sometimes with little or no warning and after we have made significant investments in anticipation of the adoption  -  due to various reasons, such as funding shortfalls, delays in development and approval of state academic standards and specifications, competing priorities or school readiness. In addition, individual school districts may decline to purchase new programs in accordance with the state's adoption schedule. A substantial delay, postponement or cancellation of a larger adoption opportunity can adversely affect the amount and timing of our net sales return on investment for the affected product, our business and our results of operations.. Further, the timing of the legislative appropriations process in most states is such that it is often impossible to know with certainty whether implementation of an adoption will be funded until after products have been submitted for review. By that time, investments have been made for product development and substantial expenses incurred for sales, marketing and other costs. If the legislature in a state that provides dedicated funding for instructional materials decides not to appropriate those funds or appropriates substantially less than anticipated, due to a revenue shortfall or other reasons, or if the legislature lifts restrictions on use of those funds, then implementation of that adoption could be substantially compromised or delayed and our net sales and return on investment could be adversely affected.. Changes in state academic standards could affect our market and require investment in development of new programs or modifications to our existing programs and any delays or controversies in the implementation of such standards could impact our results of operations.. States may adopt new academic standards or revise existing standards, which may affect our market and require investment in the development of new programs or modifications to our existing programs offered for sale in states that adopt such changes. Delays or controversies in the implementation of the adoption of new or revised academic standards may result in insufficient lead time before the deadline to submit instructional materials for an adoption. As a result, we may have to invest more than planned in order to complete product development or make the modifications in the compressed timeframe to bring our program into alignment with the new or revised standards, which could adversely affect our return on investment. Alternatively, we may determine that completing product development or making the modifications within the available timeframe is not practicable, and elect not to participate in the adoption, forgoing what might have been a significant sales opportunity which could materially and adversely affect our net sales for the year of the adoption and subsequent years.. We may not be able to execute on our long-term growth strategy or achieve expected benefits from actions taken in furtherance of our strategy, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and/or our growth.. If we are not able to execute on our long-term growth strategy or achieve expected benefits from our actions in furtherance of our strategy, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and/or our growth. In any event, actions taken in furtherance of our strategy, such as transitioning to new business models or entering into new market segments could adversely impact our cash flow and our business in unforeseen ways.. 14. Our investments in new products, service offerings, platforms and/or technologies could impact our profitability.. We operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. These needs include an increasing demand for integrated learning solutions. In order to address these needs, we are investing in new products, new technology and infrastructure, and a new common platform to integrate our products, services and solutions. These investments may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically, may consume substantial financial resources and/or may divert management's attention from existing operations, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on third-party software and technology development as part of our digital platform.. We rely on third parties for some of our software and technology development. For example, some of the technologies and software that compose our instruction and assessment technologies are developed by third parties. We rely on those third parties for the development of future components and modules. Thus, we face risks associated with technology and software product development and the ability of those third parties to meet our needs and their obligations under our contracts with them. In addition, we rely on third parties for our internet-based product hosting. The loss of one or more of these third-party partners, a material disruption in their business or their failure to otherwise perform in the expected manner could cause disruptions in our business that may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Defects in our digital products and platforms could cause financial loss and reputational damage.. In the fast-changing digital marketplace, demand for innovative technology has generally resulted in short lead times for producing products that meet customer needs. Growing demand for innovation and additional functionality in digital products increases the risk that our digital products and platforms may contain flaws or corrupted data that may only become apparent after product launch, particularly for new products and platforms and new features for existing products and platforms that are developed and brought to market under tight time constraints. Problems with the performance of our digital products and platforms could result in liability, loss of revenue or harm to our reputation.. Some states and school districts require that newly purchased digital instructional materials conform to certain technical standards for accessibility by persons with disabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our net sales and/or lead us to incur additional costs.. Some states and school districts have adopted certain technical standards for accessibility by persons with disabilities that apply to school websites and electronically-delivered content. While we are committed to designing and developing our electronically-delivered products for the K-12 market in a manner accessible to persons with disabilities and strive to conform to relevant technical standards, it is possible that some of our digital products may be deemed to be non-conforming with those standards in all respects. This could limit our ability to compete for sales in states and districts that have adopted those standards, which could have an adverse effect on our net sales. To the extent that we decide to add accessibility features to existing products, we may incur costs that we would not otherwise have incurred.. Changes in product distribution channels and concentration of retailer power may restrict our ability to grow and affect our profitability in our Trade Publishing segment.. Distribution channels such as online retailers and ecommerce sites, digital delivery platforms, expanding social media, digital discovery and marketing platforms, combined with the increased concentration of retailer power, pose threats and provide opportunities to traditional consumer publishing models of our Trade Publishing segment, potentially impacting both sales volume and profitability. The reduction in \"brick and mortar\" booksellers, the resulting concentration of power held by our largest retailers, and the increased concentration of consumer book spending on best-selling titles could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. We operate in a highly competitive environment where the risks from competition are intensified due to rapid changes in our markets and industry; as a result we must continue to adapt to remain competitive.. We operate in highly competitive markets. The risks of competition are intensified in the current environment where investment in new technology is ongoing and there are rapid changes in the products and services our customers are seeking and our competitors are offering, as well as new technologies, sales and distribution channels. In addition to national curriculum publishers, we compete with a variety of specialized or regional publishers that focus on select disciplines and/or geographic regions in the K-12 market. There are multiple competitors in the Trade Publishing, supplemental and assessment segments offering content that school districts increasingly are using as part of their core classroom instructional materials. Our larger competitors in the educational market include Pearson Education, Inc., McGraw Hill Education, Cengage Learning, Inc., Scholastic Corporation, Curriculum Associates, LLC, Benchmark Education, LLC, Accelerate Learning, Inc., and Amplify Education, Inc. Some of these established competitors may have greater resources and less debt than us and, therefore, may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. Also competing in our market as a substitute are open educational resources. In addition, the market shift toward digital education solutions has induced both established technology companies and new start-up companies to enter certain segments of our market. These new competitors have the possible advantage of not needing to transition from a print business to a digital business. In addition, many established technology companies have substantial resources that they could devote to developing or acquiring digital educational products and/or content and, distributing their own and/or aggregated educational content to the K-12 market, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is also a risk of further disintermediation, which is the occurrence of state, district and other customers contracting directly with technology companies, enabling technology companies to develop direct relationships with our customers, and accordingly, have significant influence over access to and, pricing and distribution of digital and print education materials. We may not be able to adapt as needed to remain competitive in the market given the foregoing factors.. The availability of free and low-cost open education resources could adversely affect our net sales and exert downward pressure on prices for our education products.. In the K-12 market, we face growing competition from free, openly licensed content, often referred to as open education resources (\"OER\"). Free or low-cost OER content is typically delivered via the internet, and in some cases print versions and related services are available for purchase. A number of states support the use of OER by providing curated resources and a few, including New York and Texas, are funding development of OER or have done so in the past. Twenty states have signed on to the U.S Department of Education's GoOpen campaign, which seeks to support users of OER and promote coordination and sharing of OER among states. The increased availability of free and low-cost OER could negatively affect our customers' perception of the value of our content, reduce demand for our educational products, and/or exert downward pressure on prices for our products, and adversely impact our net sales.. Our operating results fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and our business has historically been dependent on our results of operations for the third quarter.. Our business is seasonal. Approximately 87% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 were derived from our Education segment, which is a markedly seasonal business. Purchases of K-12 products are typically made in the second and third quarters of the calendar year in preparation for the beginning of the school year, though assessment purchases have modest seasonality in the second and fourth quarters. We typically realize a significant portion of net sales during the third quarter, making third-quarter results material to full-year performance. This sales seasonality affects operating cash flow from quarter to quarter. We typically incur a net cash deficit from all of our activities through the middle of the third quarter of the year. We cannot be sure that our second and third quarter net sales will continue to be sufficient to fund our business and meet our obligations. 16. or that they will be higher than our net sales for our other quarters or in the prior-year periods. In the event that we do not derive sufficient net sales for the second and third quarter, we may have a liquidity shortfall and be unable to fund our business and/or meet our debt service requirements and other obligations.. Our net sales, operating profit or loss and net cash provided or used by operations are impacted by the inherent seasonality of the academic calendar. As purchases of K-12 products are typically made in the second and third quarters of a given calendar year, changes in our customers' ordering patterns may impact the comparison of results between a quarter and the same quarter of the prior year, between a quarter and the prior consecutive quarter or between a fiscal year and the prior fiscal year, which can make it difficult for us to forecast the timing of customer purchases and assess our financial performance until late in the year.. Our history of operations includes periods of operating and net losses, and we may incur operating and net losses in the future. Such losses may impact our liquidity.. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we generated operating losses of $113.5 million, $310.8 million and $116.1 million, respectively, and net losses of $103.2 million, $284.6 million and $133.9 million, respectively. If we continue to suffer operating and net losses, our liquidity may suffer and we may not be able to fund our business and/or meet our debt service requirements and other obligations. Furthermore, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly.. Our ability to enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights may be limited, which may harm our competitive position and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our products are largely comprised of intellectual property content delivered through a variety of media, including print, digital and web-based media. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws and rights as well as employee agreements and other contracts to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products and technology. However, our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient and we cannot make assurances that our proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Moreover, we conduct business in certain other countries where the extent of effective legal protection for intellectual property rights is uncertain. It is possible we could be involved in expensive and time-consuming litigation to maintain, defend or enforce our intellectual property.. Furthermore, despite the existence of copyright and trademark protection under applicable laws, third parties may nonetheless violate our intellectual property rights, and our ability to remedy such violations, including in certain foreign countries where we conduct or seek to conduct business, may be limited. In addition, the copying and distribution of content over the Internet creates additional challenges for us in protecting our proprietary rights. If we are unable to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our competitive position may be harmed, and our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected.. Failure to comply with privacy laws or adequately protect personal data could cause financial loss and reputational damage.. Across our businesses we hold large volumes of personal data, including that of employees, customers and students. We are subject to a wide array of different privacy laws, rules, regulations and standards in the U.S. as well as in foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business, including but not limited to (i) the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act and state student data privacy laws in connection with personally identifiable information of students, (ii) the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act in connection with our self-insured health plan and certain of our products, (iii) the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards in connection with collection of credit card information from customers, and (iv) various EU data protection and privacy laws. Our brands and customer relationships are important assets. Our failure to comply with applicable privacy laws, rules, regulations and standards or adequately prevent the improper use or disclosure of the personal data we hold. 17. could lead to penalties, significant remediation costs, reputational damage to our brands and customer relationships, potential cancellation of existing business and diminished ability to compete for future business.. We are subject to risks based on Information Technology systems. A major breach in security or information technology system failure could interrupt the availability of our internet-based products and services, result in corruption and/or loss of data cause liability, reputational damage to our brands and business and/or result in financial loss.. Our business is dependent on information technology systems to support our complex operational and logistical arrangements across our businesses. We provide software and/or internet-based products and services to our customers. We also use complex information technology systems and products to support our business activities, particularly in infrastructure and as we move our products and services to an increasingly digital delivery platform.. We face several technological risks associated with software and/or internet-based product and service delivery in our educational businesses, including with respect to information technology capability, reliability and security, enterprise resource planning, system implementations and upgrades. Failures of our information technology systems and products (including because of operational failure, natural disaster, computer virus or hacker attacks) could interrupt the availability of our internet-based products and services, result in corruption or loss of data or breach in security and result in liability, reputational damage to our brands and/or adversely impact our operating results.. While we have policies, processes, internal controls and cybersecurity mechanisms in place intended to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, no mechanisms are entirely free from the risk of failure and we have no guarantee that our security mechanisms will be adequate to prevent all possible security threats. Our brand, reputation, especially in the K-12 market, and consequently our operating results may be adversely impacted by unanticipated system failures, corruption, loss of data and/or breaches in security.. Failure to prevent or detect a malicious cyber-attack on our information technology systems could result in liability, reputational damage, loss of revenue and/or financial loss.. Cyber-attacks and hackers are becoming more sophisticated and pervasive. Our business is dependent on information technology systems to support our complex operational and logistical arrangements across our businesses. We provide software and/or internet-based products and services to our customers. We also use complex information technology systems and products to support our business activities, particularly in infrastructure and as we move our products and services to an increasingly digital delivery platform. Across our businesses we hold large volumes of personal data, including that of employees, customers and students.. Efforts to prevent cyber-attacks and hackers from entering our systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of our systems. Individuals may try to gain unauthorized access to our systems and data for malicious purposes, and our security measures may fail to prevent such unauthorized access. Cyber-attacks and/or intentional hacking of our systems could adversely affect the performance or availability of our products, result in loss of customer data, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, or result in theft of our funds or proprietary information, the occurrence of which could result in liability, reputational damage, loss of revenue and/or financial loss.. We are dependent on a small number of third parties to print and bind our products and to supply paper, a principal material for our products. If we were to lose our relationship with our print vendor and/or paper merchant, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. We outsource the printing and binding of our products and currently rely on one key third-party print vendor that handles approximately 50% of our printing requirements, and we expect a small number of print vendors. 18. will continue to account for a substantial portion of our printing requirements for the foreseeable future. The loss of, or a significant adverse change in our relationship with our key print vendor could have a material adverse effect on our business and cost of sales.. In addition, we purchase paper, a principal raw material for our print products, primarily through one paper merchant. Further, paper merchants, including our paper merchant, rely on paper mills to produce the paper that they broker. There can be no assurance that our relationships with our print vendor and/or paper merchant will continue or that their business or operations will not be affected by disruptions in the industries that they rely on, including a disruption in the paper mill industry, major disasters or other external factors. The loss of our key print vendor and/or paper merchant, a material change in our relationship with them, a material disruption in their business or their failure to otherwise perform in the expected manner could cause disruptions in our business that may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to identify and complete any future acquisitions or achieve the expected benefits from any previous or future acquisitions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and/or our growth.. We have at times used acquisitions as a means of expanding our business and technologies, and expect that we will continue to do so in the future as part of our capital allocation strategy. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition opportunities and, even if we were able to do so, we may not be able to finance or complete any such future acquisition on terms satisfactory to us. Further, we may not be able to successfully integrate previous or future acquisitions into our existing business, achieve anticipated operating advantages and/or realize anticipated cost savings or other synergies. The acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks, including: use of available cash, issuance of equity or debt securities, incurrence of new indebtedness or borrowings under our revolving credit facility to consummate the acquisition and/or integrate the acquired business; diversion of management's attention from operations of our existing businesses and those of the acquired business to the integration; integration of complex systems, technologies and networks into our existing systems; difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; unexpected costs, delays or other risks related to transition support services provided under any transition services agreement that may be executed as part of the acquisition. These transactions may create multiple and overlapping product lines that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays in service. The demands on our management related to the increase in our size after an acquisition also may have potential adverse effects on our operating results.. If we are unable to finance or complete any future acquisition on terms satisfactory to us (or at all) and/or we are unable to successfully integrate any previous or future acquisitions into our existing business, achieve anticipated operating advantages and/or realize anticipated cost savings or other synergies from any such acquired business, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to attract, retain and focus a strong leadership team, a dynamic sales force, software engineers and other key personnel, it could have an adverse effect on our business and ability to remain competitive, financial condition and results from operations.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, focus and retain a strong leadership team, a dynamic sales force, software engineers and other key personnel at economically reasonable compensation levels. We operate in highly competitive industry segments that continue to change to adapt to customer needs and technological advances and in which there is intense competition for experienced and highly effective personnel. If we are unable to timely attract and retain key personnel with relevant skills for our evolving industry segments it could adversely affect our business and ability to remain competitive, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. In late summer / early fall of 2017, we added, through new hires and promotion, seven new members to our executive leadership team to serve under our President and Chief Executive Officer, who assumed his role in April 2017. Additional changes to our leadership team in the future could slow implementation of key initiatives, lead to changes in or create uncertainty about our business strategies and/or impact management's attention to operations. Any such inefficiencies and uncertainty, as well as any failure of our new leadership team to timely and successfully transition into their roles could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations and/or increase volatility in our stock price.. In addition, our business results depend largely upon the experience and knowledge of local market dynamics and long-standing customer relationships of our sales personnel. Our inability to attract, retain and focus effective sales and other key personnel at economically reasonable compensation levels could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate profitably and grow our business.. If we fail to maintain strong relationships with our authors, illustrators and other creative talent, as well as to develop relationships with new creative talent, our net sales and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our Trade publishing business and certain aspects of our K-12 business are highly dependent on maintaining strong relationships with the authors, illustrators and other creative talent who produce books and other products sold to our customers. We operate in a number of highly visible industry segments where there is intense competition for successful authors, illustrators and other creative talent. Any overall weakening of these relationships, or the failure to develop successful new relationships, could have an adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations.. Our major operating costs and expenses include employee compensation as well as paper, printing and binding costs and expenses for product-related manufacturing, and a significant increase in such costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. Our major operating costs and expenses include employee compensation as well as paper, printing and binding costs for product-related manufacturing.. We offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the employees required to grow and expand our businesses. Compensation costs are influenced by general economic and business factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance, payout of commissions and incentive compensation and post-retirement benefits, as well as trends specific to the employee skillsets we require.. Paper is one of our principal raw materials. Paper prices fluctuate based on the worldwide demand for and supply of paper in general and for the specific types of paper we use. The price of paper may fluctuate significantly in the future, and changes in the market supply of, or demand for paper, could affect delivery times and prices. Paper mills and other suppliers may consolidate or there may be disruptions in their industry and as a result, there may be future shortfalls in quality and quantity supplies necessary to meet the demands of the entire marketplace, including our demands. As a result, we may need to find alternative sources for paper from time to time. In addition, we have extensive printing and binding requirements. We outsource the printing and binding of our books, workbooks and other printed products to third parties, typically under multi-year contracts. Increases in any of these operating costs and expenses could materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition and results of operations. Further, higher energy costs and other factors affecting the cost of publishing, transporting and distributing our products could adversely affect our financial results.. We also have other significant operating costs, and unanticipated increases in these costs could adversely affect our operating margins. Our inability to absorb the impact of increases in paper, printing and binding costs and other costs of publishing, transporting and distributing our products or any strategic determination not to pass on all or a portion of these increases to our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 20. We may not realize expected benefits from our operational efficiency and cost-savings initiatives, including those under our 2017 Restructuring Plan, and such initiatives may lead to unintended consequences that could have a material effect on our results of operations.. On an ongoing basis, we assess opportunities for improved operational effectiveness and efficiency and better alignment of expenses with net sales, while preserving our ability to make the investments in content and our people that we believe are important to our long-term success. In March 2017, we committed to certain actions under the 2017 Restructuring Plan in order to improve our operational efficiency, better focus on the needs of our customers and right-size our cost structure to create long-term shareholder value. These actions include making organizational design changes across layers of the Company below the executive team and other right-sizing initiatives expected to result in reductions in force, consolidating and/or subletting certain office space under real estate leases as well as other potential operational efficiency and cost-reduction initiatives. We have substantially completed the organizational design change actions and expect to complete the remaining actions by the end of 2018.. We estimate annualized cost savings of approximately $70.0 million to $80.0 million exiting 2018 as a result of these actions and estimate that implementation of these actions are expected to result in total charges of approximately $45.0 million to $49.0 million, of which approximately $35.0 million to $39.0 million of these charges are estimated to result in future cash outlays.. Expected costs, savings and operational efficiency benefits under such initiatives, including those under our 2017 Restructuring Plan, may differ materially from our estimates and expectations based on many factors, including timing of actions thereunder and higher than expected costs of implementation. In addition, such initiatives may lead to unintended consequences, such as management and employee distraction, inability to attract and retain key personnel, attrition beyond planned reductions, and reduced morale and productivity, which could have a material effect on our results of operations.. Exposure to litigation could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations.. In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in legal actions, claims litigation and other matters arising from our business operations and face the risk that additional actions and claims will be filed in the future. Litigation alleging infringement of copyrights and other intellectual property rights, particularly with respect to proprietary photographs and images, is common in the educational publishing industry. While management does not expect any of the existing legal actions and claims arising from our business operations to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the costs of pursuing or defending against any particular legal proceeding, or the resolution of any particular legal proceeding could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations.. We have insurance in such amounts and with such coverage and deductibles as management believes is reasonable. However, our coverage for certain business lines has been exhausted and there can be no assurance that our liability insurance for other business lines will cover all events or that the limits of such coverage will be sufficient to fully cover all potential liabilities thereunder.. Operational disruption to our business caused by a major disaster or other external threats could restrict our ability to supply products and services to our customers.. Across all our businesses, we manage complex operational and logistical arrangements including distribution centers, data centers and large office facilities. Failure to recover from a major disaster (such as fire, flood or other natural disaster) or other external threat (such as terrorist attacks, strikes, weather or political unrest or other external factors) at a key center or facility could affect our business and employees, disrupt our daily business activities and/or restrict our ability to supply products and services to our customers.. 21. We are subject to contingent liabilities that may affect liquidity and our ability to meet our obligations.. In the ordinary course of business, we issue performance-related surety bonds and letters of credit posted as security for our operating activities, some of which obligate us to make payments if we fail to perform under certain contracts in connection with the sale of instructional materials and assessment programs. The surety bonds are partially backstopped by letters of credit. As of December 31, 2017, our contingent liability for all letters of credit was approximately $25.2 million, of which $0.1 million were issued to backstop $2.5 million of surety bonds. The letters of credit reduce the borrowing availability on our revolving credit facility, which could affect liquidity and, therefore, our ability to meet our obligations. We may increase the number and amount of contracts that require the use of letters of credit, which may further restrict liquidity and, therefore, our ability to meet our obligations in the future.. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $780.0 million ($768.2 million, net of discount and issuance costs) outstanding under our term loan facility and no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility. Our substantial outstanding indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following:. <U+0095>   our high level of indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;. <U+0095>   our high level of indebtedness could adversely impact our credit rating;. <U+0095>   the restrictions imposed on the operation of our business under the agreements governing such indebtedness may hinder our ability to take advantage of strategic opportunities to grow our business and to make attractive investments;. <U+0095>   our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, restructuring, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired, which could be exacerbated by volatility in the credit markets;. <U+0095>   we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for operations, working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes;. <U+0095>   our high level of indebtedness could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt;. <U+0095>   our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited;. <U+0095>   our failure to satisfy our obligations under the agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit our secured lenders to foreclose on our assets securing such indebtedness;. <U+0095>   our high level of indebtedness makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business and industry; and. <U+0095>   we may be vulnerable to interest rate increases, as certain of our borrowings bear interest at variable rates. A 1% increase or decrease in the interest rate will change our interest expense by approximately $7.8 million on an annual basis for our term loan facility and $2.5 million on an annual basis for our revolving credit facility, assuming it is fully drawn.. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to satisfy our obligations. In addition, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the agreements governing our existing indebtedness do not, and any future debt may not, fully prohibit us from doing so. If new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the related risks that we now face could substantially intensify.. 22. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures and other growth initiatives depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our Senior Secured Credit Facilities restrict our ability to use the proceeds from asset sales. We may not be able to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.. We may record future goodwill or additional indefinite-lived intangibles impairment charges related to our reporting units, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. We test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles asset balances for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level and, in evaluating the potential for impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding estimated net sales projections, growth rates, cash flows and discount rates. Although we use consistent methodologies in developing the assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculations used in our impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and can vary from actual results. Declines in the future performance and cash flows of the reporting unit or small changes in other key assumptions may result in future impairment charges, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. A change from up-front payment by school districts for multi-year programs and actions taken in furtherance of our long-term growth strategy could adversely affect our cash flow.. In keeping with the past practice of payments, school districts typically pay up-front when buying multi-year programs. If school districts changed their payment practices to spread their payments to us over the term of a program, our cash flow could be adversely affected. Further, as we execute on our long-term growth strategy, actions taken in furtherance of our strategy, such as transitioning to new business models could adversely impact our cash flow and our business in unforeseen ways.. The shift to sales of greater digital content or an increase in consumable print core programs may affect the comparability of our revenue to prior periods and cause increases or decreases in our sales to be reflected in our results of operations on a delayed basis.. As K-12 instructional materials transition from printed to digital products, an increasing percentage of our revenues are derived from time-based digital products. Our customers typically pay for purchased products up-front; however, we recognize a significant portion of our time-based digital sales over their respective terms, as required by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States. As a result, an increase in the portion of our sales coming from digital sales may impact the comparison of our revenue results for a period with the same prior-year or consecutive period. Further, sales of consumable print core programs typically result in net sales being recognized over a longer periods similar to time-based digital products. As more product offerings move to a consumable print format, more revenue will be deferred and recognized over a longer period of time.. 23. Another effect of recognizing revenue from digital and consumable print core program sales over their respective terms is that any increases or decreases in sales during a particular period may not translate into proportional increases or decreases in revenue during that period. Consequently, deteriorating sales activity may be less immediately observable in our results of operations.. Changes in U.S. federal, state and local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law, or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. As a global learning company, we are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the U.S. and various other countries and jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places that we operate. Our effective tax rate, however, may be different than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country, the results of examinations and audits of our tax filings, adjustments to the value of our uncertain tax positions, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws, including the 2017 Tax Act. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations.. We face risks of doing business abroad.. We conduct business in a number of regions outside of the U.S., including emerging markets in South America, Asia and the Middle East. Accordingly, we face exposure to the risks of doing business abroad, including, but not limited to, longer customer payment terms in certain countries; increased credit risk; difficulties in protecting intellectual property, enforcing or terminating agreements and collecting receivables under certain foreign legal systems; compliance under local privacy laws, rules, regulations and standards; the need to comply with U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws, rules and regulations; and in some countries, a higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, terrorism, corruption, and social and ethnic unrest."
