[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business, because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. As a result of the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.. Downturns in capital spending and cyclicality in the markets we serve have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The majority of our products are used in the construction, maintenance, repair and operation of facilities, plants and projects in the communications, energy, engineering and construction, general manufacturing, infrastructure, oil and gas, marine construction, marine transportation, mining, oilfield services, transportation, utility, wastewater treatment and food and beverage industries. The demand for our products and services depends to a large degree on the capital spending levels of end-users in these markets. Many of these end-users defer capital expenditures or cancel projects during economic downturns or periods of uncertainty. In addition, certain of the markets we serve are cyclical, which affects capital spending by end-users in these industries.. We have risks associated with our customers’ access to credit.. Poor credit market conditions may adversely impact the availability of construction and other project financing, upon which many of our customers depend, resulting in project cancellations or delays. Our utility and industrial customers may also face limitations when trying to access the credit markets to fund ongoing operations or capital projects. Credit constraints experienced by our customers may result in lost revenues, reduced gross margins for us and, in some cases, higher than expected bad debt losses.. We have risks associated with inventory.. Our business requires us to maintain substantial levels of inventory. We must identify the right mix and quantity of products to keep in our inventory to fulfill customer orders. Failure to do so could adversely affect our sales and earnings. However, if our inventory levels are too high, we are at risk that unexpected changes in circumstances, such as a shift in market demand, drop in prices or loss of a customer, could have a material adverse impact on the net realizable value of our inventory.. Our operating results are affected by fluctuations in commodity prices.. Copper, steel, aluminum, nickel and petrochemical products are components of the products we sell. Fluctuations in the costs of these and other commodities have historically affected our operating results. If commodity prices decline, the net realizable value of our existing inventory could be reduced, and our gross profit could be adversely affected. To the extent higher commodity prices result in increases in the costs we pay for our products, we attempt to reflect the increase in the prices we charge our customers. While we historically have been able to pass most of these cost increases on to our customers, to the extent we are unable to do so in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, if commodity costs increase, our customers may delay or decrease their purchases of our products.. Our sales are impacted by the level of oil and gas drilling activity.. We estimate that approximately one-third of our sales directly depend upon the level of capital and operating expenditures in the oil and gas industry, including capital and other expenditures in connection with exploration, drilling, production, gathering, transportation, refining and processing operations. Demand for the products we distribute is sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital and other expenditures by, oil and gas companies. A material decline in oil or gas prices, inability to access capital, and consolidation within the industry could all depress levels of exploration, development and production activity and, therefore, could lead to a decrease in our sales due to curtailed capital and MRO expenditures.. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We rely on customers to purchase our industrial products. The number, size, business strategy and operations of these customers vary widely from market to market. Our success depends heavily on our ability to identify and respond to our customers’ needs.. 6. In 2017, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 38% of our sales. If we were to lose one or more of our large customers, or if one or more of our large customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, and we were unable to replace the lost sales on similar terms, we could experience a significant loss of revenue and profits. In addition, if one or more of our key customers failed or were unable to pay, we could experience a write-off or write-down of the related receivables, which could adversely affect our earnings. We participate with national marketing groups and engage in joint promotional sales activities with the members of those groups. Any permanent exclusion of us from, or refusal to allow us to participate in, such national marketing groups could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our results of operations.. An inability to obtain the products that we distribute could result in lost revenues and reduced profits and damage our relationships with customers.. In 2017, we sourced products from approximately 290 suppliers. However, we have adopted a strategy to concentrate our purchases with a small number of suppliers in order to maximize product quality, delivery dependability, purchasing efficiencies and vendor rebates. As a result, in 2017 approximately 50% of our purchases came from five suppliers. If any of these suppliers changes its sales strategy or decides to terminate its business relationship with us, our sales and earnings could be adversely affected unless and until we were able to establish relationships with suppliers of comparable products. In addition, if we are not able to obtain the products we distribute from either our current suppliers or other competitive sources, we could experience a loss of revenue, reduction in profits and damage to our relationships with our customers. Supply shortages may occur as a result of unanticipated demand or production cutbacks, shortages of raw materials, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting products or shipments, transportation disruptions or other reasons beyond our control. When shortages occur, suppliers often allocate products among their customers, and our allocations might not be adequate to meet our customers' needs.. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our ability to operate and grow successfully.. Our success is highly dependent upon the services of James L. Pokluda III, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Nicol G. Graham, our Chief Financial Officer. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive officers, key management and sales personnel. We do not have key man life insurance covering any of our executive officers. We may not be able to retain our executive officers, key personnel or attract additional qualified management and sales personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or our other key management and sales personnel or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could hurt our ability to operate and make it difficult to maintain our market share and to execute our growth strategies.. A change in vendor rebate programs could adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations.. The terms on which we purchase products from many of our suppliers entitle us to receive a rebate based on the volume of our purchases. These rebates effectively reduce our costs for products. If suppliers adversely change the terms of some or all of these programs, the changes may lower our gross margins on products we sell and may have an adverse effect on our operating results.. If we encounter difficulties with our management information systems, including cyber-attacks, we would experience problems managing our business.. We believe our management information systems are a competitive advantage in maintaining a leadership position in the industrial supply industry. We rely upon our management information systems to manage and replenish inventory, determine pricing, fill and ship orders on a timely basis and coordinate our sales and marketing activities. If we experience problems with our management information systems, we could experience product shortages, diminished inventory control or an increase in accounts receivable. Any failure by us to maintain our management information systems could adversely impact our ability to attract and serve customers and would cause us to incur higher operating costs and experience reduced profitability.. An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We compete directly with national, regional and local providers of industrial products. Competition is primarily focused in the local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, quality, product availability, service capabilities and price. Some of our existing competitors have, and new market entrants may have, greater financial and marketing resources than we do. To the extent existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, we may be required to lower our prices, thereby adversely affecting our financial results. Existing or future competitors also may seek to compete with us for acquisitions, which could have the effect of increasing the price and reducing the number of suitable acquisitions. Other companies, including our current customers, could seek to compete directly with our private branded products, which could adversely affect our sales of those products and ultimately our financial results. Our existing customers, as well as suppliers, could seek to compete with us by offering services similar to ours, which could adversely affect our market share and our financial results. In addition, competitive pressures resulting from economic conditions and the industry trend toward consolidation could adversely affect our growth and profit margins.. 7. We may not be able to successfully identify acquisition candidates, effectively integrate newly acquired businesses into our operations or achieve expected profitability from our acquisitions.. To supplement our growth, we intend to selectively pursue acquisition opportunities. If we are not successful in finding attractive acquisition candidates that we can acquire on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot complete those acquisitions that we identify, we will not be able to realize the benefit of this growth strategy.. Acquisitions involve numerous possible risks, including unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel; the diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions or target markets where we do not have prior experience; the potential loss of key employees; and the inability to generate sufficient profits to offset acquisition or investment-related expenses. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, our existing stockholders could be diluted, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. If we finance an acquisition with debt, it could result in higher leverage and interest costs. As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate, and goodwill impairments may result.. We are anticipating growth in the businesses we acquired in 2010 and in 2016. However, the Southern reporting unit had impairments of intangibles in 2013 and 2016 and the Southwest reporting unit had a goodwill impairment charge and impairment of intangibles in 2015 as they did not meet their financial objectives. Future goodwill and tradename impairments may result, should the acquired businesses not achieve their currently forecasted growth or profitability targets.. We may be subject to product liability claims that could be costly and time consuming.. We sell industrial products. As a result, from time to time we have been named as defendants in lawsuits alleging that these products caused physical injury or injury to property. We rely on product warranties and indemnities from the product manufacturers, as well as insurance that we maintain, to protect us from these claims. However, if manufacturers' warranties and indemnities and our insurance coverage are not available or inadequate to cover every claim, it could have an adverse effect on our operating results.. Changes to the U.S. tax, tariff and import/export regulations may have a negative effect on our results of operations.. We import a relatively small but growing percentage of our wire and cable products, as well as a significant portion of our hardware products, from foreign manufacturers. Some recent U.S. tax reform proposals could, if enacted, increase the amount of tax paid on imported goods. In addition, the 2016 presidential and congressional elections have created uncertainty about future trade policies, treaties, government regulations and tariffs. Changes in import tariffs or other trade regulations, could have a negative impact on our cash flow, and require us to change our sourcing and supply chain strategies, and adversely affect our profitability.. 8"
