[1] "Item  1A.  RISK FACTORS. Because we depend on railroads for our operations, our operating results and financial condition are likely to be adversely affected by any increase in rates, reduction or deterioration in rail service or change in the railroads' reliance on us to market their intermodal transportation services.. We depend on the major railroads in the United States for virtually all of the intermodal services we provide. In many markets, rail service is limited to one or a few railroads. Consequently, a reduction in, or elimination of, rail service to a particular market is likely to adversely affect our ability to provide intermodal transportation services to some of our customers. Rate increases would result in higher intermodal transportation costs, reducing the attractiveness of intermodal transportation compared to truck or other transportation modes, which could cause a decrease in demand for our services. Further, our ability to continue to expand our intermodal transportation business is dependent upon the railroads' ability to increase capacity for intermodal freight and provide consistent and reliable service. Our business could also be adversely affected by a work stoppage at one or more railroads or by adverse weather conditions or other factors that hinder the railroads' ability to provide reliable transportation services.. In the past, there have been service issues when railroads have merged. As a result, we cannot predict what effect, if any, further consolidations among railroads may have on intermodal transportation services or our results of operations.. To date, the railroads have chosen to rely on us and other intermodal competitors to market their intermodal services rather than fully developing their own marketing capabilities. If one or more of the major railroads were to decide to reduce their dependence on us, the volume of intermodal shipments we arrange would likely decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. If we fail to maintain and enhance our information technology systems, or if we fail to successfully implement new technology or enhancements, we may be at a competitive disadvantage and lose customers.. Hub Group continues to see technology as key to driving internal efficiencies as well as providing additional capabilities to customers and carriers. In addition, Hub Group's systems are critical to our operations and our ability to compete effectively as an intermodal provider, dedicated and drayage carrier, truck broker and logistics provider. We expect our customers to continue to demand more sophisticated technology-driven solutions from their suppliers and we must enhance or replace our information technology systems in response. This may involve significant research and development costs, implementation costs and potential challenges. To keep pace with changing technologies and customer demand, we are making investments in our technology, as well as investing in emerging technology to further drive innovation and efficiency. The back-office investments include implementing new order management, transportation management and financial management processes and systems.  In a transformation of this size and scope we must mitigate risk by engaging external expertise and hiring internal experts. If we fail to successfully implement critical technology, if it does not provide the anticipated benefits or it does not meet market demands, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage and could lose customers, materially adversely impacting our financial condition and results of operations.. Technology and new market entrants may also disrupt the way we and our competitors operate.  As technology improves and new companies enter the freight brokerage market, our customers may be able to find alternatives to our services for matching shipments with available freight hauling capacity.  We must continue to develop innovative emerging technologies to source, track and provide visibility to capacity while exploiting machine learning and artificial intelligence to further improve customer outcomes.. Our information technology systems are subject to breaches in data security and other risks and the inability to use our information technology systems could materially adversely affect our business.. 6. Our information technology systems are dependent upon global communications and cloud service providers, as well as their respective vendors, all of whom have at some point experienced significant system failures and outages in the past. These providers' systems are susceptible to outages from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Our infrastructure may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, malicious intrusion, random attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Failure to prevent or mitigate data loss or system intrusions from cyber-attacks or other security breaches, system failures or outages could expose us, our vendors, customers or third parties to a risk of loss or misuse of such information, which may adversely affect our operating results, result in litigation or otherwise harm our reputation or business.  Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others who access our systems may pose a risk that sensitive customer, vendor or employee data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public, materially adversely impacting our customer service, employee, customer and vendor relationships and our reputation.. The Company is continuously working to install new, and upgrade its existing, information technology systems and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks to ensure that the Company is protected against cyber risks and security breaches. While we believe that we have taken appropriate security measures to protect our data and information technology systems and prevent data loss, there can be no assurance that our efforts may not prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in demand for our services, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our largest customers and the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and business.. Our 20 largest customers accounted for approximately 39% of our total revenue in 2017, 38% in 2016 and 35% in 2015. While our dedicated and logistics businesses may involve long-term contracts, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or continue at the same levels.  A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and business.. Our ability to expand our business or maintain our profitability may be adversely affected by a shortage of drivers and capacity.. We derive significant revenue from our truck brokerage, dedicated and logistics services. Driver shortages and reliance on third-party companies for the operation of our intermodal, truck brokerage, dedicated and logistics services could adversely affect our profitability and limit our ability to expand our business or retain customers. Most drayage and certain less than truckload companies operate relatively small fleets and have limited access to capital for fleet expansion. Particularly during periods of economic expansion, it may be difficult for HGD, HGT and third-party trucking companies to expand their fleets due to chronic driver shortages. Driver shortages may require increases to drivers' compensation that we may be unable to pass on to our customers, thereby increasing our cost of providing services.  Truckload capacity could be tighter as a result of the ELD mandate that was effective in December 2017.. Our obligation to pay our carriers is not contingent upon receipt of payment from our clients and we extend credit to certain clients as part of our business model.. In most cases, we take full risk of credit loss for the transportation services we procure from carriers.  Our obligation to pay our carriers is not contingent upon receipt of payment from our clients.  If any of our key clients fail to pay for our services, our profitability would be negatively impacted.. Because our business is concentrated on intermodal services, any decrease in demand for intermodal transportation services compared to other transportation services could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We derived 57% of our revenue from our intermodal services in 2017, 61% in 2016 and 62% in 2015. As a result, any decrease in demand for intermodal transportation services compared to other transportation services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and our business may suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other competitive factors.. There are numerous competitive factors which could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. We compete with many other transportation and logistics service providers, some of which have greater capital resources than we do. Some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, and some of our competitors may have lower cost structures than we do, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase prices to preserve market share. Additionally, our customers may decide to in-source the services we currently provide for them using their own assets.. 7. An economic downturn and cyclical fluctuations in the economy could materially adversely affect our business.. Our operations and performance depend significantly on economic conditions. Uncertainty about United States and global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for transportation services. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of disruptions in the financial markets and adverse economic conditions, and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Other factors that could influence demand include fluctuations in fuel costs, labor costs, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. We have little or no control over any of these factors or their effects on the transportation industry.  Economic recession or a downturn in customers' business cycles also may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and growth by reducing demand for our services.  Therefore, our results of operations, like the entire freight transportation industry, are cyclical and subject to significant period-to-period fluctuations.  There could be a number of follow-on effects from a credit crisis on our business, including the insolvency of key transportation providers and the inability of our customers to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture products resulting in a decreased demand for transportation services. Our revenues and gross margins are dependent upon this demand, and if demand for transportation services declines, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected.. Although we believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations internally, our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, may adversely affect our ability to engage in strategic transactions. The inability to obtain adequate financing from debt or capital sources could force us to self-fund strategic initiatives or even forgo certain opportunities, which in turn could potentially harm our performance.. Uncertainty about global economic conditions could also increase the volatility of our stock price.. We use a significant number of independent contractors, such as owner operators, in our businesses.  Legislative, judicial and regulatory authorities may continue to take actions or render decisions that could affect the independent contractor classification, which could have a significant impact on our gross margin and operating income.. We do business with a large number of independent contractors, such as Mode LLC IBO's and sales agents and HGT owner-operators, consistent with longstanding industry practices. Legislative, judicial, and regulatory (including tax) authorities have taken actions and rendered decisions that could affect the independent contractor classifications.  Class action and individual lawsuits have been filed against us and others in our industries, challenging the independent contractor classifications.  See Item 3 - Legal Proceedings for further discussion and see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements under \"Legal Matters\" for a description of material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us and certain risks to our business presented by such matters.  If independent contractors are determined to be employees, then we may incur legal liabilities associated with that determination, such as liability for unpaid wages, overtime, employee health insurance and taxes.  If we were to change how we treat independent contractors or reclassify independent contractors to employees, then we would likely incur expenses associated with that reclassification and could incur additional ongoing expenses.  The costs associated with these matters could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and our financial position.. Relatively small increases in our transportation costs that we are unable to pass through to our customers are likely to have a significant effect on our gross margin and operating income.. Transportation costs represented 89% of our consolidated revenue in 2017, 87% in 2016 and 88% in 2015. Because transportation costs represent such a significant portion of our costs, any increases in the operating costs of railroads, trucking companies or drayage companies can be expected to result in higher freight rates.  Transportation costs may increase if we are unable to sign on owner-operators or recruit employee drivers as this may increase driver costs or force us to use more expensive purchased transportation.  The inability to pass cost increases to our customers is likely to have a significant effect on our gross margin and operating income.. Insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings.. We maintain insurance with licensed insurance companies.  Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. If the number or severity of claims increases, our operating results could be adversely affected and the cost to renew our insurance could increase when our current coverage expires. If these expenses increase, and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates to our customers, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected.. We are partially self-insured for certain losses related to employee medical coverage. Our self-insurance reserves may not be adequate to cover our medical claim liabilities.. We are partially self-insured for certain losses related to employee medical coverage, excluding employees covered by health maintenance organizations. We generally have an individual stop loss deductible per enrollee unless specific exposures are separately insured. We accrue a contingent liability based upon examination of historical trends, historical actuarial analysis, our. 8. claims experience, total plan enrollment (including employee contributions), population demographics, and other various estimates. Self-insurance reserves, net income, and cash flows could be materially affected if future claims differ significantly from our historical trends and assumptions.. We depend on third parties for equipment essential to operate our business, and if we fail to secure sufficient equipment, we could lose customers and revenue.. We depend on third parties for transportation equipment, such as tractors, containers, chassis, trailers and cross docks necessary for the operation of our business. Our industry has experienced equipment shortages in the past, particularly during the peak shipping season in the fall. A substantial amount of intermodal freight originates at or near the major West Coast ports, which have historically had the most severe equipment shortages. As an asset-light freight transportation management company, if we cannot secure sufficient transportation equipment at a reasonable price from third parties to meet our customers' needs, our customers may seek to have their transportation needs met by other providers with their own assets. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.. Losing a member of our management team or one or more key Mode LLC sales only agents or IBOs could have an adverse effect on revenue and net income.. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the transportation services industry. As all key personnel devote their full time to our business, the loss of any member of our management team, key Mode LLC sales only agents or IBOs or other key persons could have an adverse effect on us. We do not have written employment agreements with any of our executive officers and do not maintain key man insurance on any of our executive officers. Nearly all Mode LLC sales-only agents and IBOs are under written contract with Mode LLC.  Mode's success depends upon attracting and retaining the services of Mode LLC sales-only agents and IBOs, as well as our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of other qualified personnel to run our business. Certain Mode LLC IBOs and sales-only agents represent a large portion of Mode's overall revenues. If one or more large IBOs or sales-only agents were to terminate their relationship with Mode LLC, there could be an adverse effect on Mode's business and results of operations.. Our growth could be adversely affected if we are not able to identify, successfully acquire and integrate acquisition prospects.. We believe that future acquisitions, the failure to make such acquisitions or the failure to integrate such acquired business could significantly impact financial results.  We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify suitable acquisitions or execute acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms.  Financial results most likely to be impacted include, but are not limited to, revenue, gross margin, salaries and benefits, selling general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, interest expense, net income and our debt level.. Our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages by draymen, truckers, port workers and railroad workers.. There may be labor unrest, including strikes and work stoppages, among workers at various transportation providers and in industries affecting the transportation industry, such as port workers. We could lose business due to any significant work stoppage or slowdown and, if labor unrest results in increased rates for transportation providers such as draymen, we may not be able to pass these cost increases on to our customers. Strikes among longshoreman and clerical workers at ports in the past few years have slowed down the ports for a time, creating a major impact on the transportation industry.  Work stoppages occurring among owner-operators in a specific market have increased our operating costs periodically in the past. In the past several years, there have been strikes involving railroad workers. Future strikes by railroad workers in the United States, Canada or anywhere else that our customers' freight travels by railroad would impact our operations. Any significant work stoppage, slowdown or other disruption involving port workers, railroad workers, truckers or draymen could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The transportation industry is subject to government regulation, and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition.. The Company and various subsidiaries, including HGD and Mode LLC, are licensed by the Department of Transportation (\"DOT\") as motor carrier freight brokers. The DOT prescribes qualifications for acting in this capacity, including surety bond requirements. Our HGT and HGD subsidiaries are licensed by the DOT to act as motor carriers.  The transportation industry is subject to DOT regulations regarding, among other things, driver breaks, \"restart\" rules, and the use of Electronic Logging Devices (\"ELD's\") that can affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and cost of providing, transportation services. We are audited periodically by the DOT to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. If we were found to be out of compliance, the DOT could levy fines and restrict or otherwise impact our operations. To date, compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to carbon emissions under climate change legislation or limits on vehicle weight and size. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in. 9. operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services or increase the cost of providing transportation services, any of which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We are not able to accurately predict how new governmental laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, will affect the transportation industry generally, or us in particular. We are also unable to predict how the change in administration will affect government regulation of the transportation industry.  Although government regulation that affects us and our competitors may simply result in higher costs that can be passed along to customers, that may not be the case.. Our operations may be subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties.. From time to time, we arrange for the movement of hazardous materials at the request of our customers. As a result, we may be subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the handling of hazardous materials. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous materials, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The Company is also subject to certain Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") and California Air Resources Board (\"CARB\") regulations.  We may become subject to enforcement actions, new or more restrictive regulations, or differing interpretations of existing regulations, which may increase the cost of providing transportation services or adversely affect our results of operations.. Any attempt by the current administration to impose new tariffs or withdraw from or materially modify NAFTA and certain other international trade arrangements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We arrange for the movement of freight into and out of every major city in Mexico and Canada, and we import 53-foot intermodal containers manufactured in China. If the current administration takes action to withdraw from or materially modify the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\") or certain other international trade arrangements, or to impose tariffs on imports of foreign-manufactured goods into the United States, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  Additionally, the imposition of substantial tariffs on foreign-made intermodal containers or other products we utilize may increase the cost of providing transportation services or adversely affect our results of operations.. Changes in immigration laws could increase the costs of doing business or otherwise disrupt our operations.. We have hired individuals, including Information Technology (\"IT\") employees, from outside the United States.  We have employee drivers and owner-operator drivers who are immigrants to the U.S.  We engage third party consultants, including for various IT projects, who may utilize personnel from outside the United States.  If immigration laws are changed or if new more restrictive government regulations are enacted or increased, our access to qualified and skilled personnel may be limited, the costs of doing business may increase and our operations may be disrupted.. We are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio.. Although we have not recognized any material losses on our cash and cash equivalents, future declines in their market values could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The value or liquidity of our cash and cash equivalents could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. We face litigation risks that could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business.. We face litigation risks regarding a variety of issues, including without limitation, accidents involving our trucks and employees, alleged violations of federal and state labor and employment laws, securities laws, environmental liability and other matters. These proceedings may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. The defense of such lawsuits could result in significant expense and the diversion of our management's time and attention from the operation of our business. In recent years, several insurance companies have stopped offering coverage to trucking companies as a result of increases in the severity of automobile liability claims and higher costs of settlements and verdicts. This trend could adversely affect our ability to obtain suitable insurance coverage or could significantly increase our cost for obtaining such coverage, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. Costs we incur to defend or to satisfy a judgment or settlement of these claims may not be covered by insurance or could exceed the amount of that coverage or increase our insurance costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows."
