[1] "ITEM 1A    Risk Factors. Our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors including, but not limited to those set forth below. Any one of these factors could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or future anticipated results. See also Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis  -  \"Executive Overview of the Business\", \"Outlook\", and \"Results of Operations\".. Global economic uncertainty could adversely affect us.. During periods of prolonged slow growth, or a downturn in conditions in the worldwide or domestic economies, we could experience reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. Depending upon their severity and duration, these conditions could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We operate in markets that are subject to competitive pressures that could affect selling prices or demand for our products.. We compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price. Competitors' behavior related to these areas could potentially have significant impacts on our financial results.  Our competitive strategy is to design and manufacture high quality products at the lowest possible cost. Our strategy is to also increase selling prices to offset rising costs of raw materials and components. Competitive pricing pressures may not allow us to offset some or all of our increased costs through pricing actions. Alternatively, if raw material and component costs decline, the Company may not be able to maintain current pricing levels. Competition could also affect future selling prices or demand for our products which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our inability to effectively develop and introduce new products could adversely affect our ability to compete.. New product introductions and enhancement of existing products and services are key to the Company's competitive strategy. The success of new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, timely and successful development of new products, market acceptance of these products and the Company's ability to manage the risks associated with these introductions. These risks include production capabilities, management of inventory levels to support anticipated demand, the risk that new products may have quality defects in the early stages of introduction, and obsolescence risk of existing products. The Company cannot predict with certainty the ultimate impact new product introductions could have on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. We may not be able to successfully implement initiatives, including our restructuring activities, that improve productivity and streamline operations to control or reduce costs.. Achieving our long-term profitability goals depends significantly on our ability to control or reduce our operating costs. Because many of our costs are affected by factors outside, or substantially outside, our control, we generally must seek to control or reduce costs through productivity initiatives. If we are not able to identify and implement initiatives that control or reduce costs and increase operating efficiency, or if the cost savings initiatives we have implemented to date do not generate expected cost savings, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Our efforts to control or reduce costs may include restructuring activities involving workforce reductions, facility consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives. If we do not successfully manage our current restructuring activities, or any other restructuring activities that we may undertake in the future, expected efficiencies and benefits may be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted.. We engage in acquisitions and strategic investments and may encounter difficulty in obtaining appropriate acquisitions and in integrating these businesses.. Part of the Company's growth strategy involves acquisitions. We have pursued and will continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic investments to complement and expand our existing businesses. The rate and extent to which acquisitions become available may impact our growth rate. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate these businesses into our operations and realize the planned synergies. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions into our operations and in managing strategic investments and foreign acquisitions and joint ventures may also present additional risk related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages. Failure to effectively complete or manage acquisitions may adversely affect our existing businesses as well as our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Aclara Acquisition or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected.. The full benefits of the Aclara Acquisition, including the anticipated sales or growth opportunities, may not be realized as expected or may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Aclara Acquisition could adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows and decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Aclara Acquisition.. In addition, we have been required to devote significant attention and resources prior to closing to prepare for the operation of Hubbell following the Aclara Acquisition and will be required to devote significant attention and resources post-closing to successfully align the business practices and operations of Hubbell Incorporated and Aclara. This process may disrupt the businesses and, if ineffective, could limit the anticipated benefits of the Aclara Acquisition.. 8 HUBBELL INCORPORATED - Form 10-K. We have incurred direct and indirect costs as a result of the Aclara Acquisition and will incur additional direct and indirect costs as a result of the Aclara Acquisition.. We have incurred substantial expenses in connection with and as a result of completing the Aclara Acquisition and we expect to incur additional expenses in connection with combining the businesses, operations, policies and procedures of Hubbell Incorporated and Aclara. Factors beyond our control could affect the total amount or timing of these expenses, many of which, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately.. We have outstanding indebtedness; our indebtedness  has increased as a result of the Aclara Acquisition, and will further increase if we incur additional indebtedness in the future and do not retire existing indebtedness.. We have outstanding indebtedness and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. The amount of cash required to pay interest on our indebtedness following completion of the Aclara Acquisition, and thus the demands on our cash resources, is greater than the amount of cash required to service our indebtedness prior to the Aclara Acquisition.  Our increased indebtedness level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including (i) requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes, (ii) reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions and (iii) exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates.. We may incur significantly more indebtedness in the future. If we add new indebtedness and do not retire existing indebtedness, the risks described above could increase.. We manufacture and source products and materials from various countries throughout the world. A disruption in the availability, price or quality of these products or materials could impact our operating results.. Our business is subject to risks associated with global manufacturing and sourcing. We use a variety of raw materials in the production of our products including steel, aluminum, brass, copper, bronze, zinc, nickel, plastics, phenolics, elastomers and petrochemicals. We also purchase certain electrical and electronic components, including solenoids,lighting ballasts, printed circuit boards and integrated circuit chips and cord sets from a number of suppliers. Significant shortages in the availability of these materials or significant price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products, which could adversely impact our results of operations.. We rely on materials, components and finished goods that are sourced from or manufactured in foreign countries including Mexico, China, and other international countries. Political instability in any country where we do business could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. We rely on our suppliers to produce high quality materials, components and finished goods according to our specifications. Although we have quality control procedures in place, there is a risk that products may not meet our specifications which could impact our ability to ship quality products to our customers on a timely basis, which could adversely impact our results of operations.. We are subject to risks surrounding our information technology systems failures, network, disruptions and breaches in data security.. The proper functioning of Hubbell's information technology systems is critical to the successful operation of our business. Although our information technology systems are protected with robust backup and security systems, these systems are still susceptible to cyber threats, outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, viruses, break-ins and similar events, or breaches of physical security. A failure of our information technology systems could impact our ability to process orders, maintain proper levels of inventory, collect accounts receivable and pay expenses; all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, security breaches could result in unauthorized disclosure of confidential information that may result in financial or reputational damage to the Company.. We have continued to work on improving our utilization of our enterprise resource planning system, expanding standardization of business processes and performing implementations at our remaining businesses. We expect to incur additional costs related to future implementations, process reengineering efforts as well as enhancements and upgrades to the system. These system modifications and implementations could result in operating inefficiencies which could adversely impact our operating results and/or our ability to perform necessary business transactions.. Future tax law changes could increase our prospective tax expense. In addition, tax payments may ultimately differ from amounts currently recorded by the Company.. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The determination of the Company's worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires judgment and is based on diverse legislative and regulatory structures that exist in the various jurisdictions where the company operates. Although management believes its estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in its financial statements and may adversely affect the Company's financial results for the period when such determination is made.  We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provisions. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the future outcomes of these audits could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. HUBBELL INCORPORATED - Form 10-K 9. Recent U.S. tax legislation may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. On December 22, 2017 Public Law 115-97 \"An Act to Provide Reconciliation Pursuant to Titles II and V of the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2018\" was enacted. This law is commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Job Act of 2017 (\"TCJA\"). The TCJA significantly changed the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, including taxation of U.S. corporations, by, among other things, reducing the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate, limiting the availability of previously claimed deductions, taxing certain activities and transactions not previously subject to U.S. tax and imposing a mandatory  deemed repatriation tax on certain undistributed earnings and profits of U.S.-owned foreign corporations. The legislation is unclear in many respects and will require further interpretation and review of regulations to be issued by the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") and state tax authorities. The legislation could also be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain impacts of the legislation.. The TCJA will also impact how we account for income taxes in our financial statements. Pursuant to guidance issued by the SEC in December 2017, issuers are permitted up to one-year from the date of enactment of the TCJA to complete the accounting for the income tax effects of the TCJA. See Note 1  -  Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\"). Until the accounting for the income tax effects is complete, financial statements should include provisional amounts to the extent a reasonable estimate of the income tax effects of the TCJA can be determined. We have included in the current period financial statements a provisional amount with respect to the deemed repatriation provisions of the TCJA, the revaluation of U.S. deferred taxes and the U.S. and foreign tax costs associated with anticipated remittances related to certain of our  outside basis differences.  We have also included provisional amounts with respect to those states with current conformity to the Internal Revenue Code where a reasonable estimate could be determined.  We have not included a provisional amount for the income tax effects of a repatriation of our remaining unremitted foreign earnings because we have not determined a reasonable estimate related to it. During the one-year period provided under SAB 118, we will include additional provisional amounts or adjustments to prior provisional amounts in our financial statements as information is obtained, prepared and analyzed and legislative and authoritative guidance is issued. These additional amounts or adjustments to prior provisional amounts could be material. See Note 12  -  Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. We will continue to examine the impact that the TCJA may have on our business in subsequent periods. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the legislation remains uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Significant developments stemming from the recent U.S. federal elections could have a material adverse effect on us.. As a result of the recent U.S. federal elections, there may be changes to existing trade agreements, like the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"), and proposed trade agreements, like the Trans-Pacific Partnership (\"TPP\"), greater restrictions on free trade generally, significant increases in tariffs on goods imported into the United States particularly tariffs on products manufactured in Mexico, among other possible changes. Changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries where we currently manufacture and sell products, and any resulting negative sentiments towards the United States as a result of such changes, could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel.. Our ability to sustain and grow our business requires us to hire, retain and develop a highly skilled and diverse management team and workforce. Failure to ensure that we have the depth and breadth of personnel with the necessary skill set and experience, or the loss of key employees, could impede our ability to deliver our growth objectives and execute our strategy.. Deterioration in the credit quality of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. We have an extensive customer base of distributors, wholesalers, electric utilities, OEMs, electrical contractors, telecommunications companies and retail and hardware outlets. We are not dependent on a single customer, however, our top ten customers account for approximately 40% of our net sales. Deterioration in the credit quality of several major customers could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Inability to access capital markets or failure to maintain our credit ratings may adversely affect our business.. Our ability to invest in our business and make strategic acquisitions may require access to the capital markets. If general economic and capital market conditions deteriorate significantly, it could impact our ability to access  capital. Failure to maintain our credit ratings could also impact our ability to access credit markets and could adversely impact our cost of borrowing. While we have not encountered significant financing difficulties recently, the capital and credit markets have experienced significant volatility in recent years. Market conditions could make it more difficult for us to access capital to finance our investments and acquisitions. This could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 10 HUBBELL INCORPORATED - Form 10-K. If the underlying investments of our defined benefit plans do not perform as expected, we may have to make additional contributions to these plans.. We sponsor certain pension and other postretirement defined benefit plans. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact these plan expenses and funding obligations. Significant changes in market interest rates, investment losses on plan assets and reductions in discount rates may increase our funding obligations and could adversely impact our results of operations,  cash flows, and financial condition. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit plan assets will be sufficient to meet future funding requirements.. Volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our international operations accounted for approximately 11% of our net sales in 2017. We are exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have on translating the financial statements of our international operations, most of which are denominated in local currencies, into the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and reported profits in our international  operations. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the prices we pay suppliers for materials used in our products. As a result, fluctuating exchange rates may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.. Our reputation and our ability to conduct business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners.. We cannot provide absolute assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti-kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree. Despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and internal control policies, these measures may not always prevent reckless or criminal acts by our employees or agents. Any such improper actions could damage our reputation and subject us to civil or criminal investigation in the United States and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could cause us to incur significant legal and investigative fees.. We could incur significant and/or unexpected costs in our efforts to successfully avoid, manage, defend and litigate intellectual property matters.. The Company relies on certain patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property of which the Company cannot be certain that others have not and will not infringe upon. Although management believes that the loss or expiration of any single intellectual property right would not have a material impact on its operating results, intellectual property litigation could be costly and time consuming and the Company could incur significant legal expenses pursuing these claims against others.. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging intellectual property infringement. Any dispute or litigation involving intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. In addition, as a result of such claims, the Company may lose its rights to utilize critical technology or may be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at a substantial cost, any of which could negatively impact our operating results. Even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement, we may incur significant costs that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. See Item 3 \"Legal Proceedings\" for a discussion of our legal proceedings.. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other intangible assets.. As of December 31, 2017, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $1.5 billion. In addition, the Aclara acquisition is expected to result  in a significant increase in goodwill and intangible assets. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments both within and outside the Company's control. Deteriorating economic conditions, technological changes, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, intensified competition, divestitures, market capitalization declines and other factors may impair our goodwill and other intangible assets. Any charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect our results of operations in the periods an impairment is recognized.. HUBBELL INCORPORATED - Form 10-K 11. We are subject to litigation and environmental regulations that may adversely impact our operating results.. We are a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving product liability, intellectual property and environmental matters, which could be significant. It is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of every claim and lawsuit. In the future, we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. In addition, while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain claims, such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against such claims. We establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies, including contingencies related to legal claims asserted against us. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and require us to make additional payments, which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for clean up or other costs or damages under environmental laws. In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns. Compliance with any future laws and regulations could result in a materially adverse effect on our business and financial results. See Item 3 \"Legal Proceedings\" for a discussion of our legal proceedings.. Regulations related to conflict-free minerals may cause us to incur additional expenses and may create challenges with our customers.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability regarding the use of \"conflict\" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (\"DRC\"). The SEC has established annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use \"conflict\" minerals sourced from the DRC in their products. These new requirements could limit the pool of suppliers who can provide conflict-free minerals and as a result, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain these conflict-free minerals at competitive prices. Compliance with these new requirements may also increase our costs. In addition, we may face challenges with our customers if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals used in our products.. We face the potential harms of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations.. Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and the actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create political or economic instability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products, or disrupt our supply chain.. 12 HUBBELL INCORPORATED - Form 10-K"
