[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. The following discussion of risk factors may be important to understanding the statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II - Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Discussions about the important operational risks that our business encounters can be found in Part II - Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". An inability to retain our senior management team and other managing directors would be detrimental to the success of our business.. We rely heavily on our senior management team, our practice leaders, and other managing directors; our ability to retain them is particularly important to our future success. Given the highly specialized nature of our services, the senior management team must have a thorough understanding of our service offerings as well as the skills and experience necessary to manage an organization consisting of a diverse group of professionals. In addition, we rely on our senior management team and other managing directors to generate and market our business. Further, our senior management's and other managing directors' personal reputations and relationships with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and maintaining client engagements. Although we enter into non-solicitation agreements with our senior management team and other managing directors, we generally do not enter into non-competition agreements. Accordingly, members of our senior management team and our other managing directors are not contractually prohibited from leaving or joining one of our competitors, and some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. If one or more members of our senior management team or our other managing directors leave and we cannot replace them with a suitable candidate quickly, we could experience difficulty in securing and successfully completing engagements and managing our business properly, which could harm our business prospects and results of operations.. Our inability to hire and retain talented people in an industry where there is great competition for talent could have a serious negative effect on our prospects and results of operations.. Our business involves the delivery of professional services and is highly labor-intensive. Our success depends largely on our general ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled professionals. Further, we must successfully maintain the right mix of professionals with relevant experience and skill sets as we continue to grow, as we expand into new service offerings, and as the market evolves. The loss of a significant number of our professionals, the inability to attract, hire, develop, train, and retain additional skilled personnel, or failure to maintain the right mix of professionals could have a serious negative effect on us, including our ability to manage, staff, and successfully complete our existing engagements and obtain new engagements. Qualified professionals are in great demand, and we face significant. 5. Table of Contents. competition for both senior and junior professionals with the requisite credentials and experience. Our principal competition for talent comes from other consulting firms and accounting firms, as well as from organizations seeking to staff their internal professional positions. Many of these competitors may be able to offer significantly greater compensation and benefits or more attractive lifestyle choices, career paths, or geographic locations than we do. Therefore, we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the skilled consultants we require to conduct and expand our operations successfully. Increasing competition for these revenue-generating professionals may also significantly increase our labor costs, which could negatively affect our margins and results of operations.. Additional hiring, departures, business acquisitions and dispositions could disrupt our operations, increase our costs or otherwise harm our business.. Our business strategy is dependent in part upon our ability to grow by hiring individuals or groups of individuals and by acquiring complementary businesses. However, we may be unable to identify, hire, acquire, or successfully integrate new employees and acquired businesses without substantial expense, delay, or other operational or financial obstacles. From time to time, we will evaluate the total mix of services we provide and we may conclude that businesses may not achieve the results we previously expected. Competition for future hiring and acquisition opportunities in our markets could increase the compensation we offer to potential employees or the prices we pay for businesses we wish to acquire. In addition, we may be unable to achieve the financial, operational, and other benefits we anticipate from any hiring or acquisition, as well as any disposition, including those we have completed so far. New acquisitions could also negatively impact existing practices and cause current employees to depart. Hiring additional employees or acquiring businesses could also involve a number of additional risks, including:. • the diversion of management's time, attention, and resources from managing and marketing our Company;. • the failure to retain key acquired personnel or existing personnel who may view the acquisition unfavorably;. • the potential loss of clients of acquired businesses;. • the need to compensate new employees while they wait for their restrictive covenants with other institutions to expire;. • the potential need to raise significant amounts of capital to finance a transaction or the potential issuance of equity securities that could be dilutive to our existing stockholders;. • increased costs to improve, coordinate, or integrate managerial, operational, financial, and administrative systems;. • the potential assumption of liabilities of an acquired business;. • the inability to attain the expected synergies with an acquired business;. • the usage of earn-outs based on the future performance of our business acquisitions may deter the acquired company from fully integrating into our existing business;. • the perception of inequalities if different groups of employees are eligible for different benefits and incentives or are subject to different policies and programs; and. • difficulties in integrating diverse backgrounds and experiences of consultants, including if we experience a transition period for newly hired consultants that results in a temporary drop in our utilization rates or margins.. All of our acquisitions have been accounted for as purchases, some of which involved purchase prices well in excess of tangible asset values, resulting in the creation of a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we do not amortize goodwill or intangible assets acquired in a business combination that are determined to have indefinite useful lives, but instead review them annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for impairment. To the extent that we determine that such an asset has been impaired, we will write down its carrying value on our balance sheet and book a non-cash impairment charge in our statement of earnings. If, as a result of acquisitions or otherwise, the amount of intangible assets being amortized increases, so will our amortization charges in future periods.. Also, selling practices and shutting down operations present similar challenges in a service business. Dispositions not only require management's time, but they can impair existing relationships with clients or otherwise affect client satisfaction, particularly in situations where the divestiture eliminates only part of the complement of consulting services provided to a client. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement, as we may be required to retain responsibility for, or agree to indemnify buyers against, liabilities related to a business sold. For example, in connection with the sale of our Huron Legal segment to Consilio, Inc., which was completed on December 31, 2015, we have contractually agreed to indemnify the buyer against certain liabilities. If we fail to successfully address these risks, our ability to compete may be impaired and our results of operations may be adversely affected.. 6. Table of Contents. Our goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial amount of our total assets, and we may be required to recognize a non-cash impairment charge for these assets if the performance of one or more of our reporting units falls below our expectations.. Our total assets reflect a substantial amount of intangible assets, primarily goodwill. At December 31, 2017, goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $718.1 million, or 69%, of our total assets. Goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of the fair value of consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that an impairment may have occurred. Intangible assets other than goodwill represent purchased assets that lack physical substance but can be distinguished from goodwill. Our intangible assets primarily consist of customer relationships, trade names, customer contracts, technology and software, non-competition agreements, and publishing content, all of which were acquired through business combinations. We evaluate our intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. No impairment charges for intangible assets were recorded in 2017.. During 2017, we recorded $253.1 million of non-cash goodwill impairment charges. As further explained in the following paragraphs, of the $253.1 million, $208.1 million related to our Healthcare reporting unit and $45.0 million related to our Enterprise Solutions and Analytics reporting unit which is included in our Business Advisory segment.. During the second quarter of 2017, we performed a goodwill impairment analysis for our Healthcare reporting unit as our Healthcare business had experienced a prolonged period of declining revenues, primarily driven by softness in our revenue cycle offering within our performance improvement solution. This softness was attributable to decreased demand for our services, the winding down of some of our larger projects, and a trend toward smaller projects, as well as fewer large integrated projects. In light of these challenges, several initiatives have been undertaken to improve the segment's financial performance, including repositioning our solutions to address the most critical needs of our clients, the expansion of our existing services such as those in our Studer Group, strategy, physician and technology offerings, and workforce reductions to better align resources with market demand. While the initiatives undertaken to improve the financial performance of our Healthcare segment began yielding some positive impacts, hospitals and health systems continued to face regulatory and funding uncertainty; therefore, we remained cautious about near-term growth. As we had previously disclosed in prior quarters, if the financial performance of our Healthcare segment continued to decline and did not meet our expectations, we could be required to perform an interim impairment analysis with respect to our carrying value of goodwill for the Healthcare reporting unit prior to our usual annual test. Based on forecasts prepared in the second quarter of 2017 in connection with our quarterly forecasting cycle, we determined that the likely time frame to improve the financial results of this segment would take longer than originally anticipated. As such, we concluded, during the second quarter of 2017, that the fair value of the Healthcare reporting unit may have no longer exceeded its carrying value. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the quarter ended June 30, 2017, we performed an interim impairment test on the Healthcare reporting unit. Based on the estimated fair value of the Healthcare reporting unit, we recorded a $208.1 million non-cash pretax goodwill impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of goodwill in our Healthcare reporting unit.. Our Enterprise Solutions and Analytics reporting unit was established with the acquisition of Blue Stone International, LLC in 2013. Since that time, we completed five additional business acquisitions within the reporting unit, most recently the acquisitions of the U.S. assets and international assets of ADI Strategies in May 2016 and April 2017, respectively. We record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, including identifiable intangible assets, at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date, and goodwill is recorded as the excess of the fair value of consideration transferred, including any contingent consideration, over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Therefore, the initial accounting for an acquisition results in its fair value equaling its carrying value. As we have previously disclosed in prior quarters, due to this reporting unit's relatively low headroom, in the event that the financial performance of the reporting unit did not meet our expectations during 2017, we could be required to take a non-cash impairment charge as a result of any goodwill impairment test. During the first three quarters of 2017, the performance of Enterprise Solutions and Analytics continued to reasonably meet our expectations. However, both revenues and operating margin during the fourth quarter of 2017 fell short of our expectations resulting in a reduction in workforce within the reporting unit during that quarter. Further, in connection with our annual budget process for 2018, which coincided with our annual goodwill impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2017, we determined that the reporting unit's expected future revenue growth rates and operating margin would be lower than previously anticipated for this reporting unit. As a result, our goodwill impairment test indicated that the fair value of the Enterprise Solutions and Analytics reporting unit no longer exceeded its carrying value, and we recorded a $45.0 million non-cash pretax charge to write-off the entire carrying value of this reporting unit's goodwill during the fourth quarter of 2017.. The Life Sciences reporting unit has also been established primarily through recent business acquisitions: The Frankel Group Associates LLC in January 2014 and Pope Woodhead in January 2017. As discussed above, goodwill is recorded for such business acquisitions as the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, resulting in the fair value equaling the carrying value at the acquisition date. Based on the results of our annual goodwill impairment test as of November 30, 2017, the Life Sciences reporting unit's fair value exceeded its carrying value by 14%. We will monitor any changes to our assumptions and will evaluate goodwill as deemed warranted during future periods.. 7. Table of Contents. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit requires us to make significant judgments, estimates, and assumptions. While we believe that the estimates and assumptions underlying our valuation methodology are reasonable, these estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether or not a non-cash goodwill impairment charge is recognized and also the magnitude of any such charge. The results of an impairment analysis are as of a point in time. There is no assurance that the actual future earnings or cash flows of our reporting units will be consistent with our projections. We will monitor any changes to our assumptions and will evaluate goodwill as deemed warranted during future periods. Any significant decline in our operations could result in additional non-cash goodwill impairment charges.. Refer to \"Critical Accounting Policies\" within Part I - Item 2. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and Note 5 \"Goodwill and Intangible Assets\" within the notes to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our business combinations, goodwill, intangible assets, and impairment tests performed in 2017.. Changes in capital markets, legal or regulatory requirements, and general economic or other factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services, in which case our revenues and profitability could decline.. A number of factors outside of our control affect demand for our services. These include:. • fluctuations in U.S. and global economies;. • the U.S. or global financial markets and the availability, costs, and terms of credit;. • changes in laws and regulations; and. • other economic factors and general business conditions.. We are not able to predict the positive or negative effects that future events or changes to the U.S. or global economy, financial markets, or regulatory and business environment could have on our operations.. Changes in U.S. tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations and financial conditions.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. at the state and federal level and also in foreign jurisdictions. Changes in applicable U.S. state, federal or foreign tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, could materially affect our tax expense and profitability.. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"2017 Tax Reform\"), a tax reform bill which contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including a reduction in the current corporate federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%, additional limitations on the tax deductibility of interest, substantial changes to the taxation of foreign earnings, and modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits. The changes included in the 2017 Tax Reform are broad and complex. The final transition impact of the 2017 Tax Reform may differ materially from our current estimates due to, among other things, additional regulatory and interpretive guidance, as well as any statutory technical corrections that are subsequently enacted.. The 2017 Tax Reform, or any related, similar or amended legislation or other changes in U.S. federal income tax laws, could adversely affect the U.S. federal income taxation of our ongoing operations. Any such changes and related consequences could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. If we are unable to manage fluctuations in our business successfully, we may not be able to sustain profitability.. We have grown significantly since we commenced operations and have increased the number of our full-time professionals from 249 in 2002 to 3,083 as of December 31, 2017. Additionally, our considerable growth has placed demands on our management and our internal systems, procedures, and controls and will continue to do so in the near future. To successfully manage growth, we must periodically adjust and strengthen our operating, financial, accounting, and other systems, procedures, and controls, which could increase our costs and may adversely affect our gross profits and our ability to sustain profitability if we do not generate increased revenues to offset the costs. As a public company, our information and control systems must enable us to prepare accurate and timely financial information and other required disclosures. If we discover deficiencies in our existing information and control systems that impede our ability to satisfy our reporting requirements, we must successfully implement improvements to those systems in an efficient and timely manner.. Although we have generated positive earnings since we became a public company, we may not sustain profitability in the future. Additionally, the nature of our services and the general economic environment make it difficult to predict our future operating results. To sustain profitability, we must:. • attract, integrate, retain, and motivate highly qualified professionals;. • achieve and maintain adequate utilization and suitable billing rates for our revenue-generating professionals;. 8. Table of Contents. • expand our existing relationships with our clients and identify new clients in need of our services;. • successfully resell engagements and secure new engagements every year;. • maintain and enhance our brand recognition; and. • adapt quickly to meet changes in our markets, our business mix, the economic environment, the credit markets, and competitive developments.. Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and suitable billing rates for our consultants.. Our profitability depends to a large extent on the utilization and billing rates of our professionals. Utilization of our professionals is affected by a number of factors, including:. • the number and size of client engagements;. • the timing of the commencement, completion and termination of engagements, which in many cases is unpredictable;. • our ability to transition our consultants efficiently from completed engagements to new engagements;. • the hiring of additional consultants because there is generally a transition period for new consultants that results in a temporary drop in our utilization rate;. • unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements;. • our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate level of consultants; and. • conditions affecting the industries in which we practice as well as general economic conditions.. The billing rates of our consultants that we are able to charge are also affected by a number of factors, including:. • our clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services;. • the market demand for the services we provide;. • an increase in the number of engagements in the government sector, which are subject to federal contracting regulations;. • introduction of new services by us or our competitors;. • our competition and the pricing policies of our competitors; and. • current economic conditions.. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate overall utilization as well as maintain or increase the billing rates for our consultants, our financial results could materially suffer. In addition, our consultants oftentimes perform services at the physical locations of our clients. If there are natural disasters, disruptions to travel and transportation or problems with communications systems, our ability to perform services for, and interact with, our clients at their physical locations may be negatively impacted which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of certain factors, some of which may be outside of our control.. A key element of our strategy is to market our products and services directly to certain large organizations, such as health systems and acute care hospitals, and to increase the number of our products and services utilized by existing clients. The sales cycle for some of our products and services is often lengthy and may involve significant commitment of client personnel. As a consequence, the commencement date of a client engagement often cannot be accurately forecasted. As discussed below, certain of our client contracts contain terms that result in revenue that is deferred and cannot be recognized until the occurrence of certain events. As a result, the period of time between contract signing and recognition of associated revenue may be lengthy, and we are not able to predict with certainty the period in which revenue will be recognized.. Certain of our contracts provide that some portion or all of our fees are at risk if our services do not result in the achievement of certain performance targets. To the extent that any revenue is contingent upon the achievement of a performance target, we only recognize revenue. 9. Table of Contents. upon client confirmation that the performance targets have been achieved. If a client fails to provide such confirmation in a timely manner, our ability to recognize revenue will be delayed.. Fee discounts, pressure to not increase or even decrease our rates, and less advantageous contract terms could result in the loss of clients, lower revenues and operating income, higher costs, and less profitable engagements. More discounts or write-offs than we expect in any period would have a negative impact on our results of operations.. Other fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations may be due to a number of other factors, some of which are not within our control, including:. • the timing and volume of client invoices processed and payments received, which may affect the fees payable to us under certain of our engagements;. • client decisions regarding renewal or termination of their contracts;. • the amount and timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses; and. • unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation and other settlement gains or losses.. We base our annual employee bonus expense upon our expected annual adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (\"EBITDA\") for that year. If we experience lower adjusted EBITDA in a quarter without a corresponding change to our full-year adjusted EBITDA expectation, our estimated bonus expense will not be reduced, which will have a negative impact on our quarterly results of operations for that quarter. Our quarterly results of operations may vary significantly and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. The results of one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly results of operations fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially.. Revenues from our performance-based engagements are difficult to predict, and the timing and extent of recovery of our costs is uncertain.. We have engagement agreements under which our fees include a significant performance-based component. Performance-based fees are contingent on the achievement of specific measures, such as our clients meeting cost-saving or other contractually-defined goals. The achievement of these contractually-defined goals may be subject to acknowledgment by the client and is often impacted by factors outside of our control, such as the actions of the client or other third parties. Because performance-based fees are contingent, revenues on such engagements, which are recognized when all revenue recognition criteria are met, are not certain and the timing of receipt is difficult to predict and may not occur evenly throughout the year. The percentage of our revenues derived from performance-based fees for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, was 4.9%, 8.9%, and 8.7%, respectively. A greater number of performance-based fee arrangements may result in increased volatility in our working capital requirements and greater variations in our quarter-to-quarter results, which could affect the price of our common stock. In addition, an increase in the proportion of performance-based fee arrangements may temporarily offset the positive effect on our operating results from an increase in our utilization rate until the related revenues are recognized.. The profitability of our fixed-fee engagements with clients may not meet our expectations if we underestimate the cost of these engagements.. When making proposals for fixed-fee engagements, we estimate the costs and timing for completing the engagements. These estimates reflect our best judgment regarding the efficiencies of our methodologies and consultants as we plan to deploy them on engagements. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of fixed-fee engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse effect on our profit margin. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, fixed-fee engagements represented 46.7%, 47.4%, and 58.0% of our revenues, respectively.. Our business is becoming increasingly dependent on information technology and will require additional investments in order to grow and meet the demands of our clients.. We depend on the use of sophisticated technologies and systems. Some of our practices provide services that are increasingly dependent on the use of software applications and systems that we do not own and could become unavailable. Moreover, our technology platforms will require continuing investments by us in order to expand existing service offerings and develop complementary services. Our future success depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure while continuing to improve the performance, features, and reliability of our services in response to the evolving demands of the marketplace.. 10. Table of Contents. Adverse changes to our relationships with key third-party vendors, or in the business of our key third-party vendors, could unfavorably impact our business.. A portion of our services and solutions depend on technology or software provided by third-party vendors. Some of these third-party vendors refer potential clients to us, and others require that we obtain their permission prior to accessing their software while performing services for our clients. These third-party vendors could terminate their relationship with us without cause and with little or no notice, which could limit our service offerings and harm our financial condition and operating results. In addition, if a third-party vendor's business changes or is reduced, that could adversely affect our business. Moreover, if third-party technology or software that is important to our business does not continue to be available or utilized within the marketplace, or if the services that we provide to clients is no longer relevant in the marketplace, our business may be unfavorably impacted.. We could experience system failures, service interruptions, or security breaches that could negatively impact our business.. Our organization is comprised of employees who work on matters throughout the United States and overseas. Our technology platform is a \"virtual office\" from which we all operate. We may be subject to disruption to our operating systems from technology events that are beyond our control, including the possibility of failures at third-party data centers, disruptions to the Internet, natural disasters, power losses, and malicious attacks. In addition, despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure and operating systems, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, computer viruses, programming errors, denial-of-service attacks, or other attacks by third parties seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information or similar physical or electronic breaches of security. While we have taken and are taking reasonable steps to prevent and mitigate the damage of such events, including implementation of system security measures, information backup, and disaster recovery processes, those steps may not be effective and there can be no assurance that any such steps can be effective against all possible risks. We will need to continue to invest in technology in order to achieve redundancies necessary to prevent service interruptions. Access to our systems as a result of a security breach, the failure of our systems, or the loss of data could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability, or regulatory penalties and disrupt operations, which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our reputation could be damaged and we could incur additional liabilities if we fail to protect client and employee data through our own accord or if our information systems are breached.. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients, partners, and employees. The breadth and complexity of this infrastructure increases the potential risk of security breaches which could lead to potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.. In providing services to clients, we may manage, utilize, and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data and protected health information. As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and international laws such as the European Union Directive on Data Protection. In addition, many states, U.S. federal governmental authorities and non-U.S. jurisdictions have adopted, proposed or are considering adopting or proposing, additional data security and/or data privacy statutes or regulations. Continued governmental focus on data security and privacy may lead to additional legislative and regulatory action, which could increase the complexity of doing business. The increased emphasis on information security and the requirements to comply with applicable U.S. and foreign data security and privacy laws and regulations may increase our costs of doing business and negatively impact our results of operations.. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines, and/or criminal prosecution.. In addition, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud, or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and their related revenue in the future.. Our international expansion could result in additional risks.. We operate both domestically and internationally, including in Canada, Europe, Asia, and the Middle East. Although historically our international operations have been limited, we intend to continue to expand internationally. Such expansion may result in additional risks that are not present domestically and which could adversely affect our business or our results of operations, including:. • compliance with additional U.S. regulations and those of other nations applicable to international operations;. • cultural and language differences;. • employment laws and rules and related social and cultural factors;. 11. Table of Contents. • losses related to start-up costs, lack of revenue, higher costs due to low utilization, and delays in purchase decisions by prospective clients;. • currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, which are harder to predict in the current adverse global economic climate;. • restrictions on the repatriation of earnings;. • potentially adverse tax consequences and limitations on our ability to utilize losses generated in our foreign operations;. • different regulatory requirements and other barriers to conducting business;. • different or less stable political and economic environments;. • greater personal security risks for employees traveling to or located in unstable locations; and. • civil disturbances or other catastrophic events.. Further, conducting business abroad subjects us to increased regulatory compliance and oversight. For example, in connection with our international operations, we are subject to laws prohibiting certain payments to governmental officials, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in regulatory enforcement actions as well as substantial civil and criminal penalties assessed against us and our employees.. Our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are secured by a pledge of certain of the equity interests in our subsidiaries and a lien on substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiary grantors. If we default on these obligations, our lenders may foreclose on our assets, including our pledged equity interest in our subsidiaries.. On March 31, 2015, we entered into a second amended and restated security agreement with Bank of America (the \"Security Agreement\") and a second amended and restated pledge agreement (the \"Pledge Agreement\") in connection with our entry into the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2015 (as amended and restated, the \"Amended Credit Agreement\"). Pursuant to the Security Agreement and to secure our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement, we granted our lenders a first-priority lien, subject to permitted liens, on substantially all of the personal property assets that we and the subsidiary grantors own. Pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, we granted our lenders 100% of the voting stock or other equity interests in our domestic subsidiaries and 65% of the voting stock or other equity interests in certain of our foreign subsidiaries. If we default on our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement, our lenders could accelerate our indebtedness and may be able to exercise their liens on the equity interests subject to the Pledge Agreement and their liens on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiary grantors, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In addition, the covenants contained in the Amended Credit Agreement impose restrictions on our ability to engage in certain activities, such as the incurrence of additional indebtedness, certain investments, certain acquisitions and dispositions, and the payment of dividends.. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and obligations, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable-rate debt, and adversely affect our financial results.. At December 31, 2017, we had outstanding indebtedness of $250 million principal amount of our 1.25% convertible senior notes due October 1, 2019, $105.0 million on our revolving line of credit that becomes due and payable in full upon maturity on March 31, 2020, and $4.9 million principal amount of our promissory note due March 1, 2024. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal, to pay interest, to make payments upon conversion, or to refinance our indebtedness, depends on our future performance. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to satisfy our obligations under our current indebtedness and any future indebtedness we may incur and to make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, refinancing, or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our current indebtedness or future indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on the current indebtedness or future indebtedness.. In addition, our indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences. For example, it could:. • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates because some of our borrowings are at variable interest rates;. • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, industry, and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;. 12. Table of Contents. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing and flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;. • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt or have better access to capital resources; and. • require us to dedicate a larger portion of our cash from operations to service our indebtedness and thus reduce the level of cash for other purposes such as funding working capital, strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes.. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business and our ability to service or repay our indebtedness would increase.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as our convertible notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. Under GAAP, an entity must separately account for the debt component and the embedded conversion option of convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion, such as our convertible notes, in a manner that reflects a company's economic interest cost. The effect of the accounting treatment for such instruments is that the value of such embedded conversion option would be treated as an original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the notes and that original issue discount is amortized into interest expense over the term of the notes using an effective yield method. As a result, over the term of our convertible notes, we will initially be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense. Accordingly, we will report lower net income in our financial results because of the recognition of both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and our convertible notes' coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock, and the trading price of our convertible notes.. Under certain circumstances, the shares of common stock underlying convertible debt instruments (such as our convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash are reflected in earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that such shares of common stock are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the notes exceeds their principal amount at the end of the reporting period. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, our convertible notes are accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares of common stock, are issued. The accounting standards in the future may not continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our convertible notes, then our diluted earnings per share could be adversely affected.. In addition, if the conditional conversion feature of our convertible notes is triggered, even if holders do not elect to convert their convertible notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all of the outstanding principal of our convertible notes as a current, rather than long-term, liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to pay the amount of cash due upon conversion of our convertible notes, if relevant, or the fundamental change repurchase price due when a holder submits its convertible notes for repurchase upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, and our debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or required repurchase of our convertible notes.. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as defined in the indenture governing our convertible notes, holders of our convertible notes may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of their convertible notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, upon conversion of our convertible notes, we will be required to make cash payments in respect of our convertible notes being converted, including if the conditional conversion feature of our convertible notes is triggered, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion.. We may not have sufficient financial resources, or may be unable to arrange financing, to pay the fundamental change repurchase price if holders of our convertible notes submit their convertible notes for purchase by us upon the occurrence of a fundamental change or to pay the amount of cash (if any) due if holders of our convertible notes surrender their convertible notes for conversion. In addition, the occurrence of a fundamental change may cause an event of default under agreements governing our or our subsidiaries' indebtedness. Agreements governing any of our future debt may restrict our ability to make each of the required cash payments even if we have sufficient funds to make them. Furthermore, our ability to purchase our convertible notes or to pay cash (if any) due upon the conversion of our convertible notes may be limited by law or regulatory authorities. In addition, if we fail to repurchase our convertible notes or to pay the amount of cash (if any) due upon conversion of our convertible notes, we will be in default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our other indebtedness, which in turn may result in the acceleration of such other indebtedness we may then have outstanding. If the repayment of the other indebtedness were to be accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to repay that indebtedness and to repurchase our convertible notes or to pay the amount of cash (if any) due upon conversion.. 13. Table of Contents. The fundamental change provisions associated with our convertible notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of us.. The fundamental change purchase rights, which will allow holders of our convertible notes to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their convertible notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, and the provisions requiring an increase to the conversion rate for conversions in connection with certain other circumstances may delay or prevent a takeover of us that might otherwise be beneficial to investors.. The convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions may affect the value of our convertible notes and our common stock.. In connection with the pricing of our convertible notes, we entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with affiliates of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities as hedge counterparties. The convertible note hedge transactions collectively cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of common stock that initially underlie our convertible notes. We also entered into separate privately negotiated warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties relating to the same number of shares of our common stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.. We expect that the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may modify their hedge positions with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions from time to time by purchasing and/or selling shares of our common stock and/or our convertible notes in privately negotiated transactions and/or open market transactions or by entering into and/or unwinding various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. This activity could also cause or prevent an increase or decrease in the market value of our common stock. In addition, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may choose to engage in, or to discontinue engaging in, any of these transactions with or without notice at any time, and their decisions will be in their sole discretion and not within our control.. The hedge counterparties are financial institutions which will be subject to the risk that one or both of the hedge counterparties might default under their respective convertible note hedge transactions. Upon a default by any hedge counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the hedge counterparties.. Our intellectual property rights in our \"Huron Consulting Group\" name are important, and any inability to use that name could negatively impact our ability to build brand identity.. We believe that establishing, maintaining, and enhancing the \"Huron Consulting Group\" name and \"Huron\" brand is important to our business. We are, however, aware of a number of other companies that use names containing \"Huron.\" There could be potential trade name or service mark infringement claims brought against us by the users of these similar names and marks and those users may have trade name or service mark rights that are senior to ours. If another company were to successfully challenge our right to use our name, or if we were unable to prevent a competitor from using a name that is similar to our name, our ability to build brand identity could be negatively impacted.. Our business performance might not be sufficient for us to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide publicly.. We provide full-year financial guidance to the public based upon our expectations regarding our financial performance. While we believe that our annual financial guidance provides investors and analysts with insight to our view of the Company's future performance, such financial guidance is based on assumptions that may not always prove to be accurate and may vary from actual results. If we fail to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide, or if we find it necessary to revise such guidance during the year, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected.. Expanding our service offerings or number of offices may not be profitable.. We may choose to develop new service offerings, open new offices, or eliminate service offerings because of market opportunities or client demands. Developing new service offerings involves inherent risks, including:. • our inability to estimate demand for the new service offerings;. • competition from more established market participants;. • a lack of market understanding; and. • unanticipated expenses to recruit and hire qualified consultants and to market our new service offerings.. In addition, expanding into new geographic areas and expanding current service offerings is challenging and may require integrating new employees into our culture as well as assessing the demand in the applicable market. If we cannot manage the risks associated with new. 14. Table of Contents. service offerings or new locations effectively, we are unlikely to be successful in these efforts, which could harm our ability to sustain profitability and our business prospects.. The healthcare industry is an area of significant focus for our business, and factors that adversely affect the financial condition of the healthcare industry could consequently affect our business.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from clients in the healthcare industry. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by conditions affecting the healthcare industry generally and hospitals and health systems particularly. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory, and other influences. Uncertainty in any of these areas could cause our clients to delay or postpone decisions to use our services. Existing and new federal and state laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could create unexpected liabilities for us, could cause us or our clients to incur additional costs, and could restrict our or our clients' operations. Many healthcare laws are complex and their application to us, our clients, or the specific services and relationships we have with our clients are not always clear. In addition, federal and state legislatures have periodically introduced programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the federal and state level, such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, and continue to consider further significant reforms. Due to the significant implementation issues arising under these laws and potential new legislation, it is unclear what long-term effects they will have on the healthcare industry and in turn on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of new laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business.. There are many factors that could affect the purchasing practices, operations, and, ultimately, the operating funds of healthcare organizations, such as reimbursement policies for healthcare expenses, federal and state budgetary considerations, consolidation in the healthcare industry, and regulation, litigation, and general economic conditions. In particular, we could be required to make unplanned modifications of our products and services (which would require additional time and investment) or we could suffer reductions in demand for our products and services as a result of changes in regulations affecting the healthcare industry, such as changes in the way that healthcare organizations are paid for their services (e.g., based on patient outcomes instead of services provided). Furthermore, as a result of the 2016 election and the new presidential administration, there is an increased uncertainty surrounding the future of the Affordable Care Act and the regulation of the healthcare industry, and therefore healthcare organizations may wait to buy services such as ours until the regulatory environment is more certain.. In addition, state tax authorities have challenged the tax-exempt status of some hospitals and other healthcare facilities claiming such status on the basis that they are operating as charitable and/or religious organizations. If the tax-exempt status of any of our clients is revoked or compromised by new legislation or interpretation of existing legislation, that client's financial health could be adversely affected, which could adversely impact demand for our services, our sales, revenue, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our ability to maintain and attract new business and talented personnel depends upon our reputation, the professional reputation of our revenue-generating employees, and the quality of our services.. As a professional services firm, our ability to secure new engagements and retain and attract talented personnel depends heavily upon our reputation and the individual reputations of our professionals. Any factor that diminishes our reputation or that of our employees, including not meeting client expectations or misconduct by our employees, could make it substantially more difficult for us to attract new engagements, clients, and employees. Similarly, because we obtain many of our new engagements from former or current clients or from referrals by those clients or by law firms that we have worked with in the past, any client that questions the quality of our work or that of our consultants could impair our ability to secure additional new engagements and clients.. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from a limited number of clients, and our engagement agreements, including those related to our largest clients, can be terminated by our clients with little or no notice and without penalty, which may cause our operating results to be unpredictable and may result in unexpected declines in our utilization and revenues.. As a consulting firm, we have derived, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of clients. Our 10 largest clients accounted for approximately 19.5%, 28.8%, and 29.9% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. No single client accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2017, 2016, or 2015. Our clients typically retain us on an engagement-by-engagement basis, rather than under fixed-term contracts. The volume of work performed for any particular client is likely to vary from year to year, and a major client in one fiscal period may not require or may decide not to use our services in any subsequent fiscal period. Moreover, a large portion of our new engagements comes from existing clients. Accordingly, the failure to obtain new large engagements or multiple engagements from existing or new clients could have a material adverse effect on the amount of revenues we generate.. In addition, almost all of our engagement agreements can be terminated by our clients with little or no notice and without penalty. In client engagements that involve multiple engagements or stages, there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages of an engagement or that a client will cancel or delay additional planned engagements. For clients in bankruptcy, a bankruptcy court could elect not. 15. Table of Contents. to retain our interim management consultants, terminate our retention, require us to reduce our fees for the duration of an engagement, or elect not to approve claims against fees earned by us prior to or after the bankruptcy filing.. Terminations of engagements, cancellations of portions of the project plan, delays in the work schedule, or reductions in fees could result from factors unrelated to our services. When engagements are terminated or reduced, we lose the associated future revenues, and we may not be able to recover associated costs or redeploy the affected employees in a timely manner to minimize the negative impact. In addition, our clients' ability to terminate engagements with little or no notice and without penalty makes it difficult to predict our operating results in any particular fiscal period.. Our engagements could result in professional liability, which could be very costly and hurt our reputation.. Our engagements typically involve complex analyses and the exercise of professional judgment. As a result, we are subject to the risk of professional liability. From time to time, lawsuits with respect to our work are pending. Litigation alleging that we performed negligently or breached any other obligations could expose us to significant legal liabilities and, regardless of outcome, is often very costly, could distract our management, could damage our reputation, and could harm our financial condition and operating results. In addition, certain of our engagements, including interim management engagements and corporate restructurings, involve greater risks than other consulting engagements. We are not always able to include provisions in our engagement agreements that are designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services. While we attempt to identify and mitigate our exposure with respect to liability arising out of our consulting engagements, these efforts may be ineffective and an actual or alleged error or omission on our part or the part of our client or other third parties in one or more of our engagements could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we carry professional liability insurance to cover many of these types of claims, but the policy limits and the breadth of coverage may be inadequate to cover any particular claim or all claims plus the cost of legal defense. For example, we provide services on engagements in which the impact on a client may substantially exceed the limits of our errors and omissions insurance coverage. If we are found to have professional liability with respect to work performed on such an engagement, we may not have sufficient insurance to cover the entire liability.. The consulting services industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively.. The consulting services industry in which we operate includes a large number of participants and is intensely competitive. We face competition from other business operations and financial consulting firms, general management consulting firms, the consulting practices of major accounting firms, regional and specialty consulting firms, and the internal professional resources of organizations. In addition, because there are relatively low barriers to entry, we expect to continue to face additional competition from new entrants into the business operations and financial consulting industries. Competition in several of the sectors in which we operate is particularly intense as many of our competitors are seeking to expand their market share in these sectors. Many of our competitors have a greater national and international presence, as well as have a significantly greater number of personnel, financial, technical, and marketing resources. In addition, these competitors may generate greater revenues and have greater name recognition than we do. Some of our competitors may also have lower overhead and other costs and, therefore, may be able to more effectively compete through lower cost service offerings. Our ability to compete also depends in part on the ability of our competitors to hire, retain, and motivate skilled professionals, the price at which others offer comparable services, the ability of our competitors to offer new and valuable products and services to clients, and our competitors' responsiveness to their clients. If we are unable to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with any new competitors, our financial results will be adversely affected.. Conflicts of interest could preclude us from accepting engagements thereby causing decreased utilization and revenues.. We provide services in connection with bankruptcy and other proceedings that usually involve sensitive client information and frequently are adversarial. In connection with bankruptcy proceedings, we are required by law to be \"disinterested\" and may not be able to provide multiple services to a particular client. In addition, our engagement agreement with a client or other business reasons may preclude us from accepting engagements from time to time with the client's competitors or adversaries. Moreover, in many industries in which we provide services, there has been a continuing trend toward business consolidations and strategic alliances. These consolidations and alliances reduce the number of companies that may seek our services and increase the chances that we will be unable to accept new engagements as a result of conflicts of interest. If we are unable to accept new engagements for any reason, our consultants may become underutilized, which would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations in future periods."
