[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The lift truck business is cyclical. Any downturn in the general economy could result in significant decreases in the Company's revenue and profitability and an inability to sustain or grow the business.. The Company's lift truck business historically has been cyclical. Fluctuations in the rate of orders for lift trucks, attachments and fuel-cell technology reflect the capital investment decisions of the Company's customers, which depend to a certain extent on the general level of economic activity in the various industries the lift truck customers serve. During economic downturns, customers tend to delay new lift truck and parts purchases. Consequently, the Company has experienced, and in the future may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in revenues and net income. If there is a downturn in the general economy, or in the industries served by lift truck customers, the Company's revenue and profitability could decrease significantly, and the Company may not be able to sustain or grow the business.. The cost of raw materials used by the Company's products has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which could materially reduce the Company's profitability.. At times, the Company has experienced significant increases in materials costs, primarily as a result of global increases in industrial metals including steel, lead and copper and other commodity prices, such as rubber, as a result of increased demand and limited supply. The Company manufactures products that include raw materials that consist of steel, rubber, copper, lead, castings and counterweights. The Company also purchases parts provided by suppliers that are manufactured from castings and steel or contain lead. The cost of these parts is affected by the same economic conditions that impact the cost of the parts the. 5. Table of Contents. Company manufactures. The cost to manufacture lift trucks and related service parts has been and will continue to be affected by fluctuations in prices for these raw materials. If costs of these raw materials increase, the Company's profitability could be materially reduced.. The pricing and costs of the Company's products have been and may continue to be impacted by currency fluctuations, which could materially increase costs, and result in material exchange losses and reduce operating margins.. Because the Company conducts transactions in various currencies, including euros, U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, British pounds, Swedish kroner, Mexican peso, Brazilian real and Chinese renminbi, lift truck pricing is subject to the effects of fluctuations in the value of these currencies and fluctuations in the related currency exchange rates. As a result, the Company's sales have historically been affected by, and may continue to be affected by, these fluctuations. In addition, exchange rate movements between currencies in which the Company purchases materials and components and manufactures certain products and the currencies in which the Company sells those products have been affected by and may continue to result in exchange losses that could materially reduce operating margins. Furthermore, the Company's hedging contracts may not fully offset risks from changes in currency exchange rates.. The Company is subject to risks relating to its non-U.S. operations.. Non-U.S. operations represent a significant portion of the Company's business. The Company expects revenue from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of total revenue. The Company owns or leases manufacturing facilities in Brazil, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, Northern Ireland, Finland, Germany and China, and owns interests in joint ventures with facilities in Japan, the Philippines and Vietnam. The Company also sells U.S. produced products to non-U.S. customers and sells non-U.S. produced products to U.S. customers. The Company's non-U.S. operations are subject to additional risks, which include:. • potential political, economic and social instability in the non-U.S. countries in which the Company operates;. • currency risks, including those risks set forth under, \"The pricing and costs of the Company's products have been and may continue to be impacted by currency fluctuations, which could materially increase costs and result in material exchange losses and reduce operating margins\";. • imposition of or increases in currency exchange controls;. • potential inflation in the applicable non-U.S. economies;. • imposition of or increases in import duties and other tariffs on products;. • imposition of or increases in non-U.S. taxation of earnings and withholding on payments received;. • regulatory changes affecting non-U.S. operations; and. • stringent labor regulations.. Part of the strategy to expand worldwide market share is strengthening the Company's non-U.S. distribution network. A part of this strategy also includes decreasing costs by sourcing basic components in lower-cost countries. Implementation of this part of the strategy may increase the impact of the risks described above and there can be no assurance that such risks will not have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues, profitability or market share.. The Company operates in various taxing jurisdictions around the world in which the tax laws, regulations and administrative practices are often subject to interpretation as well as to change. Although the Company has sought to reduce this uncertainty by obtaining rulings from the tax authorities in certain cases, the Company's positions may still be subject to challenge. If the Company were to become subject to a challenge, the outcome could have a significant negative effect on the Company's operating results and financial condition.. Economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad may lead to significant changes in tax rules and regulations and/or lead to the adoption of restrictions on international trade. For example, recent measures to reform U.S. tax laws and proposals to reform non-U.S. tax laws or other regulations could significantly impact how multinational corporations are taxed. Although the Company cannot predict the final form of any regulation, if adopted at all, such regulations could, if enacted, have a material adverse impact on the Company's profitability.. The Company relies primarily on its network of independent dealers to sell lift trucks and aftermarket parts and the Company has no direct control over sales by those dealers to customers. Ineffective or poor performance by these independent dealers could result in a significant decrease in revenues and profitability and the inability to sustain or grow the business.. The Company relies primarily on independent dealers for sales of lift trucks and aftermarket parts. Sales of the Company's products are therefore subject to the quality and effectiveness of the dealers, who are not subject to the Company's direct control. As a result, ineffective or poorly performing dealers could result in a significant decrease in revenues and profitability and the Company may not be able to sustain or grow its business.. 6. Table of Contents. The Company depends on a limited number of suppliers for specific critical components.. The Company depends on a limited number of suppliers for some of its critical components, including diesel, gasoline and alternative fuel engines and cast-iron counterweights used to counterbalance some lift trucks. Some of these critical components are imported and subject to regulation, primarily with respect to customary inspection of such products by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection under the auspices of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The results of operations could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to obtain these critical components, or if the costs of these critical components were to increase significantly, due to regulatory compliance or otherwise, and the Company was unable to pass the cost increases on to its customers.. The Company may not be successful in commercializing Nuvera's technology, which success would depend, in part, on the Company's ability to protect Nuvera's intellectual property.. The Company may not be able to commercialize Nuvera's fuel-cell technologies on economically efficient terms. Unforeseen difficulties, such as delays in development due to design defects or changes in specifications and insufficient research and development resources or cost overruns, may hinder the Company's ability to incorporate Nuvera's technologies into its product lines on an economically favorable basis or at all.. Furthermore, Nuvera's commercial success will depend largely on the Company's ability to maintain patent and other intellectual property protection covering certain of Nuvera's technologies. Nuvera's fuel-cell technology may not be economically viable if the Company is unable to prevent others from infringing or successfully challenging the validity of certain patents and other intellectual property rights attributable to Nuvera.. If the Company's strategic initiatives, including the introduction of new products, do not prove effective, revenues, profitability and market share could be significantly reduced.. Changes in the timing of implementation of the Company's current strategic initiatives may result in a delay in the expected recognition of future costs and realization of future benefits. In addition, if future industry demand levels are lower than expected, the actual annual cost savings could be lower than expected. If the Company is unable to successfully implement these strategic initiatives, revenues, profitability and market share could be significantly reduced.. Failure to compete effectively within the Company's industry could result in a significant decrease in revenues and profitability.. The Company experiences intense competition in the sale of lift trucks and aftermarket parts. Competition in the lift truck industry is based primarily on strength and quality of dealers, brand loyalty, customer service, new lift truck sales prices, availability of products and aftermarket parts, comprehensive product line offerings, product performance, product quality and features and the cost of ownership over the life of the lift truck. The Company competes with several global manufacturers that operate in all major markets. These manufacturers may have lower manufacturing costs and greater financial resources than the Company, which may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. If the Company fails to compete effectively, revenues and profitability could be significantly reduced.. If the global capital goods market declines, the cost saving efforts the Company has implemented may not be sufficient to achieve the benefits expected.. If the global economy or the capital goods market declines, revenues could decline. If revenues are lower than expected, the programs the Company has implemented may not achieve the benefits expected. Furthermore, the Company may be forced to take additional cost saving steps that could result in additional charges that materially adversely affect the ability to compete or implement the Company's current business strategies.. The Company is subject to recourse or repurchase obligations with respect to the financing arrangements of some of its customers.. Through arrangements with WF and others, dealers and other customers are provided financing for new lift trucks in the United States and in major countries of the world outside of the United States. Through these arrangements, the Company's dealers and certain customers are extended credit for the purchase of lift trucks to be placed in the dealer's floor plan inventory or the financing of lift trucks that are sold or leased to customers. For some of these arrangements, the Company provides recourse or repurchase obligations such that it would become obligated in the event of default by the dealer or customer. Total amounts subject to these types of obligations were $203.5 million and $149.3 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Generally, the Company maintains a perfected security interest in the assets financed such that, in the event that the Company becomes obligated under the terms of the recourse or repurchase obligations, it may take title to the assets financed. The Company cannot be certain, however, that the security interest will equal or exceed the amount of the recourse or repurchase. 7. Table of Contents. obligations. In addition, the Company cannot be certain that losses under the terms of the recourse or repurchase obligations will not exceed the reserves that have been set aside in the consolidated financial statements. The Company could incur a charge to earnings if reserves prove to be inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and liquidity for the period in which the charge is taken.. Actual liabilities relating to pending lawsuits may exceed the Company's expectations.. The Company is a defendant in pending lawsuits involving, among other things, product liability claims. The Company cannot be sure that it will succeed in defending these claims, that judgments will not be rendered against the Company with respect to any or all of these proceedings or that reserves set aside or insurance policies will be adequate to cover any such judgments. The Company could incur a charge to earnings if reserves prove to be inadequate or the average cost per claim or the number of claims exceed estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and liquidity for the period in which the charge is taken and any judgment or settlement amount is paid.. Other products may be introduced to the market by competitors, making the Nuvera technology less marketable.. The use of fuel-cell technology in industrial and commercial applications is a relatively new development. Companies implementing such technology face competition from competitors that integrate more traditional energy technologies into their product lines, as well as competitors that have implemented or are implementing alternatives to traditional energy technologies, such as lithium batteries, fuel additives and other high efficiency or \"renewable\" technologies. Any of these technologies may have more established or otherwise more attractive manufacturing, distribution and operating cost features, which could negatively impact customers' preferences for product lines that incorporate fuel-cell technology and, as a result, diminish the marketability of products incorporating Nuvera technology.. Actual liabilities relating to environmental matters may exceed the Company's expectations.. The Company's manufacturing operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances. If the Company fails to comply with these laws or the Company's environmental permits, then the Company could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil and criminal sanctions. In addition, future changes to environmental laws could require the Company to incur significant additional expenses or restrict operations.. The Company's products may also be subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing vehicle exhausts. Regulatory agencies in the United States and Europe have issued or proposed various regulations and directives designed to reduce emissions from spark-ignited engines and diesel engines used in off-road vehicles, such as industrial lift trucks. These regulations require the Company and other lift truck manufacturers to incur costs to modify designs and manufacturing processes and to perform additional testing and reporting.. The Company is investigating or remediating historical contamination at some current and former sites caused by its operations or those of businesses it acquired. While the Company is not currently aware that any material outstanding claims or obligations exist with regard to these sites, the discovery of additional contamination at these or other sites could result in significant cleanup costs that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. In connection with any acquisition the Company has made, it could, under some circumstances, be held financially liable for or suffer other adverse effects due to environmental violations or contamination caused by prior owners of businesses the Company acquired. In addition, under some of the agreements through which the Company has sold businesses or assets, it has retained responsibility for certain contingent environmental liabilities arising from pre-closing operations. These liabilities may not arise, if at all, until years later and could require the Company to incur significant additional expenses, which could materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition.. The Company is subject to import and export controls, which could subject the Company to liability or impair the Company's ability to compete in international markets.. Due to the international scope of the Company's operations, the Company is subject to a complex system of import- and export-related laws and regulations, including U.S. export control and customs regulations and customs regulations of other countries. These regulations are complex and vary among the legal jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular transaction may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed, and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Furthermore, U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions laws prohibit certain transactions with U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons and entities. Any alleged or actual failure to comply with such laws and regulations may subject the Company to government scrutiny, investigation, and civil and criminal penalties, and may limit the Company's ability to import or export products or to provide services outside the United States. Depending on severity, any of these penalties could have a material impact on the Company's business, financial. 8. Table of Contents. condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that laws and regulations will not be changed in ways which will require the Company to modify its business models and objectives or affect the Company's returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or prohibiting them outright.. The Company may become subject to claims under non-U.S. laws and regulations, which may require expensive, time consuming and distracting litigation.. Because the Company has employees, property and business operations outside of the United States, it is subject to the laws and the court systems of many jurisdictions. The Company may become subject to claims outside the United States based in non-U.S. jurisdictions for violations of their laws with respect to the Company's non-U.S. operations. In addition, these laws may be changed or new laws may be enacted in the future. Non-U.S. litigation is often expensive, time consuming and distracting. As a result, any of these risks could significantly reduce profitability and the Company's ability to operate its businesses effectively.. The Company may be subject to risks relating to increasing cash requirements of certain employee benefits plans which may affect its financial position.. The expenses recorded for, and cash contributions required to be made to, the Company's defined benefit pension plans are dependent on changes in market interest rates and the value of plan assets, which are dependent on actual investment returns. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the value of plan assets or investment losses on plan assets may require the Company to increase the cash contributed to defined benefit plans which may affect its financial position.. The Company is dependent on key personnel, and the loss of these key personnel could significantly reduce profitability.. The Company is highly dependent on the skills, experience and services of key personnel, and the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Employment and retention of qualified personnel is important to the successful conduct of the Company's business. Therefore, the Company's success also depends upon its ability to recruit, hire, train and retain additional skilled and experienced management personnel. The Company's inability to hire and retain personnel with the requisite skills could impair its ability to manage and operate its business effectively and could significantly reduce profitability.. Certain members of the Company's extended founding family own a substantial amount of its Class A and Class B common stock and, if they were to act in concert, could control the outcome of director elections and other stockholder votes on significant corporate actions.. The Company has two classes of common stock: Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Holders of Class A common stock are entitled to cast one vote per share and, as of December 31, 2017, accounted for approximately 24 percent of the voting power of the Company. Holders of Class B common stock are entitled to cast ten votes per share and, as of December 31, 2017, accounted for the remaining voting power of the Company. As of December 31, 2017, certain members of the Company's extended founding family held approximately 27 percent of the Company's outstanding Class A common stock and approximately 85 percent of the Company's outstanding Class B common stock. On the basis of this common stock ownership, certain members of the Company's extended founding family could have exercised 71 percent of the Company's total voting power. Although there is no voting agreement among such extended family members, in writing or otherwise, if they were to act in concert, they could control the outcome of director elections and other stockholder votes on significant corporate actions, such as certain amendments to the Company's certificate of incorporation and sales of the Company or substantially all of its assets. Because certain members of the Company's extended founding family could prevent other stockholders from exercising significant influence over significant corporate actions, the Company may be a less attractive takeover target, which could adversely affect the market price of its common stock."
