[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. There are risks, many beyond our control, which could cause our results to differ significantly from management's expectations. Some of these risk factors are described below. Any factor described in this Report on Form 10-K could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider to not be material also may materially and adversely affect us. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to other information disclosed in our SEC filings, including the financial statements and notes thereto.. MARKET AND LIQUIDITY RISKS. Challenging economic conditions or volatility in the financial markets could have a material adverse impact on our business, leading to diminished financial results and position.. Our profitability depends to a large extent on IBERIABANK's net interest income, which is the difference between income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, competition for loans and deposits, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets.. Although the general economic environment has shown improvement since the end of the economic recession in June 2009, there can be no assurance that improvement will continue. Economic growth has been slow and uneven, and continuing concerns over the federal deficit and government spending have contributed to uncertain conditions for the economy. However, the change in domestic government administration in early 2017 has had and may continue to have positive ramifications toward mitigating adverse impacts on the business, including, but not limited to: higher levels of interest rates in 2017 which could continue to rise in the future, potential for greater loan fee revenues from commercial/business capital investment, reduction in corporate tax rate levels by the tax reform legislation enacted in December 2017, and relaxation of certain financial regulatory reform measures.  However, a return of recessionary conditions, including declines in real estate values and sales volumes, an increase in unemployment, and/or negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect economic conditions in the market areas in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, supply of and demand for deposits, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability.. In addition, geopolitical matters, including international political unrest and slow growth in the global economy, as well as acts of terrorism, war and other violence could result in further disruptions in the financial markets. These negative events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including our liquidity position, and may affect our ability to access capital.. The geographic concentration of our markets makes our business highly susceptible to local economic conditions. Adverse economic factors affecting particular geographies or industries, especially the southeastern United States, could have a negative effect on our customers and their ability to make payments to us.. Unlike larger organizations that are more geographically diversified, our offices are primarily concentrated in selected markets in the southeastern United States. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas.. A downturn in segments of the commercial and residential real estate industries in our markets due to adverse economic factors affecting particular industries could have an adverse effect on our customers.  Deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve could result in one or more of the following:. • an increase in loan delinquencies;. • an increase in problem assets and foreclosures;. • a decrease in the demand for our products and services;. • a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage; and/or. • a decrease in supply of customer deposits, which could impact our liquidity.. 13. The Government's responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance.. The Federal Open Market Committee (\"FOMC\") of the Federal Reserve Board (\"FRB\"), in an attempt to stimulate the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate. In December 2016, the FOMC voted to raise the target federal funds rate for only the second time since 2006. The FOMC voted to raise the target federal funds rate again in March, June, and December of 2017. The FOMC has now raised rates by one and one-quarter percentage points since the financial crisis in 2008, a sign of its increased confidence in the health of the economy. In addition to increasing the target federal funds rate, the FRB also began to remove accommodation in 2017 by reducing the amount of debt held on its balance sheet. The FRB is expected to continue to wind-down its asset purchase program in 2018. The FOMC expects that economic conditions will continue to evolve in a manner that will warrant additional gradual increases in the federal funds rate in 2018 and over the next several years.  As the FOMC increases the federal funds rate and unwinds its balance sheet, it is possible that overall interest rates could rise, which may negatively impact the U.S. real estate markets and potentially affect deposit growth and pricing. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.. Changes in interest rates and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition, and we may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk.. Our net interest income may be reduced if more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a period when interest rates are declining, or more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature during a period when interest rates are rising.. Changes in the difference between short- and long-term interest rates may also harm our business. For example, short-term deposits may be used to fund longer-term loans. When differences between short-term and long-term interest rates shrink or disappear, as is possible when the FOMC is tightening monetary policy by raising the target fed funds rate, the spread between rates paid on deposits and received on loans could narrow significantly, thereby decreasing our net interest income.. If market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit increases in interest rates on adjustable rate loans, thereby reducing our net interest income.  Similarly, interest rate adjustment floors may limit the upside benefit to increases in interest rates.  In the event that market interest rates fall rapidly, loan and bond prepayments may occur as borrowers refinance and pay off debt prior to stated maturity.  As a result, yields on earning assets could decline, thereby reducing net interest income.  If an unprecedented negative rate environment were to occur, our operations and margin would be adversely impacted and could result in increased credit losses.. We attempt to manage our risk from changes in market interest rates by adjusting the rates, maturity, repricing characteristics, and balances of the different types of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.  Interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. We employ the use of models and modeling techniques to quantify the levels of risks to net interest income, which inherently involve the use of assumptions, judgments, and estimates. While we strive to ensure the accuracy of our modeled interest rate risk profile, there are inherent limitations and imprecisions in this determination and actual results may differ. As of December 31, 2017, a 100 basis point instantaneous and parallel upward shift in interest rates was estimated to increase net interest income over 12 months by approximately 3.0%. Similarly, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates was expected to decrease net interest income by 7.7% over the same period.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 41% of our total loan portfolio had fixed interest rates. Eliminating fixed rate loans that mature within a one-year time frame decreases this percentage to approximately 29% at December 31, 2017. About 96% of the investment portfolio had fixed interest rates as of December 31, 2017. Approximately 70% of our time deposit base and 87% of our Federal Home Loan Bank (\"FHLB\") borrowings will mature and/or re-price within 12 months.. If we or our subsidiaries were unable to borrow funds through access to capital markets, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers, or the operating cash needs to fund corporate expansion and other corporate activities.. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. IBERIABANK's liquidity is used primarily to fund loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and limits are established by our Board of Directors. Management and the Investment Committee regularly monitor the overall liquidity position of IBERIABANK and the Company to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Management and the Investment Committee also establish policies and monitor. 14. guidelines to diversify IBERIABANK's funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one market source. Funding sources include federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, customer deposits, and short- and long-term debt. IBERIABANK is also a member of the FHLB System, which provides funding through advances to members that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets.. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other sources of liquidity available to us should they be needed. These sources include sales or securitizations of loans, our ability to acquire additional national market, non-core or brokered deposits, additional collateralized borrowings such as the FRB discount window, the issuance and sale of debt securities, and the issuance and sale of preferred or common securities in public or private offerings. Amounts available under our existing credit facilities as of December 31, 2017 consist of $6.4 billion in FHLB availability. The Company also had various funding arrangements with the Federal discount window and commercial banks providing up to $290.6 million in the form of federal funds and other lines of credit.. If we were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might be unable to meet customers' needs, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and level of regulatory-qualifying capital.. Additionally, the Company is often the recipient of dividends from its subsidiaries, including IBERIABANK, and may rely on these dividends as a source of cash flow. The amount of future dividends from IBERIABANK is dependent upon its performance and could be impacted by future unanticipated economic conditions and regulatory limitations. Such events could impact the Company's ability to declare future dividends and ultimately its solvency if other sources of cash flows were not available.. Deposit run-off or a change in deposit mix could increase our funding costs.. A major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates we pay on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. We rely on deposits as a stable, low-cost source of funding for our interest-earning assets.  We must compete with other banks and financial institutions for deposits.  If our competitors raise rates on their deposits, we may face deposit attrition or experience higher funding costs by increasing our deposit rates in order to maintain our customer deposit base.  Higher funding costs would increase interest expense, thereby reducing our net interest margin, net interest income, and net income. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 29% of our deposits were non-interest-bearing.. Market perceptions of our credit risk could impair our liquidity, cash flows, financial condition and operating results.. Our liquidity and borrowing costs are largely impacted by our credit risk. Market perception, given the lack of a public credit rating, could have an adverse effect on our ability to access capital markets or borrow funds and increase the costs of capital and borrowings. In addition, deterioration in our credit risk, whether actual or perceived, could trigger unfavorable contractual obligations, resulting in the requirement to post additional collateral or realize credit-related contingent features.. CREDIT RISKS. Our business is highly susceptible to credit risk.. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral securing the payment of their loans (if any) may not be sufficient to satisfy our customers' loan obligations in the event of default. Credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. As of December 31, 2017, our total loan portfolio was approximately $20.1 billion, or 72% of total assets. At that date, the major components of our loan portfolio comprised 70% commercial loans (of which 64% is commercial real estate and 36% is commercial and industrial), 15% mortgage loans (primarily residential 1-4 family mortgage loans), and 15% consumer loans (primarily home equity). Our credit risk with respect to our consumer installment and commercial loan portfolios relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses within our local market areas. Our credit risk with respect to our residential and commercial real estate mortgage and construction loan portfolios relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses, the value of real estate as collateral, and guarantors serving as security for the repayment of the loans.. 15. Our loan portfolio has been and will continue to be affected by real estate markets.  Real estate industry pricing dynamics in the geographical markets we operate can vary from year to year, and with respect to construction, can vary between project funding and project completion.  Asset values to which we underwrite loans can fluctuate from year to year and impact collateral values and the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans.  An additional risk in connection with loans secured by commercial real estate is the effect of unknown or unexpected environmental contamination, which could make the real estate effectively unmarketable or otherwise significantly reduce its value as security, or could expose us to remediation liabilities as the lender. We make credit and reserve decisions based on the current conditions of borrowers or projects combined with our expectations for the future. If a deterioration in economic conditions or prices beyond our expectations were to occur in any of the market areas we serve, we could experience higher charge-offs and delinquencies above amounts provided for in the allowance for credit losses. As such, our earnings could be adversely affected through higher than anticipated provisions for loan losses.. We frequently participate in group lending transactions, such as participations or syndications, which include shared national credits. These transactions often have a lead bank that is responsible for servicing the overall credit facility.  In that capacity, the lead bank is responsible for the ongoing monitoring of the borrower's financial performance, covenant compliance and collateral verification, among other duties.  In transactions where IBERIABANK serves as the lead, we are obligated to properly manage certain credits on behalf of other banks.  In other group lending transactions, we must rely on another bank serving in the lead capacity to execute the respective duties and communicate relevant information on the borrower's status. In those instances where we are not the lead bank, we may not receive information that impacts our risk rating process in a timely manner, and/or have limited ability to influence situations that require resolution of a problem asset, which could result in unforeseen credit losses. In addition, shared national credits are a specific focus of regulatory examinations that can result in directed downgrades, including placement of a credit on non-accrual status, reversal of interest previously recorded as income and/or charge-offs.. Our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. Events unforeseen by us could result in higher loan losses impacting our results of operations.. We maintain an allowance for credit losses (\"allowance\") in an attempt to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio (funded and unfunded). Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date based on unanticipated adverse changes and/or new facts and circumstances which are currently not available to management as of the respective reporting period. Increases in the allowance will result in decreases in our earnings.. The determination of the allowance, which represents management's estimate of probable losses inherent in our credit portfolio, involves a high degree of judgment and complexity, and is subject to scrutiny by bank regulators. If our assumptions and judgments require modifications (e.g., creditworthiness), our current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio, which may have a significant impact on our financial statements. Further, changes in market factors, such as interest rates or commodity prices, could lead to increases in the allowance. While management monitors these market dynamics carefully, adverse changes to these factors could be unforeseen by management and would result in higher levels of allowance and credit losses. For example, unanticipated adjustments to management's current expectations could have an adverse impact to the allowance as the borrower's ability to repay within the terms of the contractual agreement may be reduced due to a lack of sufficient free cash flows, estimated collateral values may decline given the lack of market demand for collateralized assets, and the Company's ability to monetize guarantor support may be impaired as guarantor net worth may diminish.. Commercial and commercial real estate loans generally are viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or other loans or investments. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and other consumer loans. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of a material amount of these loans may cause a significant increase in non-performing assets, TDRs and/or past due loans. An increase in non-performing assets, TDRs, and/or past due loans could result in a loss of earnings, an increase in the provision for credit losses, or an increase in loan charge-offs, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our emphasis on loan growth and on increasing our portfolio of multi-family, commercial business and commercial real estate loans, as well as any future credit deterioration, could also require us to increase our allowance further in the future.. 16. We earn a significant portion of our non-interest revenue through sales of residential mortgages in the secondary market. We are exposed to counterparty credit, market, repurchase and other risks associated with these activities.. The Company is exposed to counterparty credit risk in the normal course of mortgage banking activities as well as market risk when engaging in these activities that is greatly impacted by the amount of liquidity in the secondary markets and changes in interest rates. We attempt to hedge our market risk based on modeling assumptions. The performance of these hedges could result in a deviation from our expectation and our operating results could be materially adversely impacted. Additionally, the Company retains repurchase risk associated with sales of these loans that is related to the Company's residential mortgage loan underwriting and closing practices. Increases in claims under these repurchase or make-whole demands, which typically arise when a borrower defaults, could have a material impact on our ability to continue participating in these types of activities as well as a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Declines in the value of certain investment securities could require write-downs, which would reduce our earnings.. Our securities portfolio includes securities that are subject to declines in value due to negative perceptions about the health of the financial sector in general and the lack of liquidity for securities that are real estate related. A prolonged decline in the value of these or other securities could result in an other-than-temporary impairment write-down, which would reduce our earnings. In the case of issuer default, a permanent impairment could be required that would reduce our earnings.. If our investment in the common stock of the FHLB of Dallas is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, our earnings and shareholders' equity could decrease.. We hold FHLB stock to qualify for membership in the FHLB System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLB advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our FHLB common stock as of December 31, 2017 was $95 million based on its par value. There is no market for FHLB common stock.. Published reports indicate that certain member banks of the FHLB System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capital of a FHLB could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in FHLB common stock could be impaired at some time in the future and, if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and shareholders' equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge.. REGULATORY/COMPLIANCE RISK. Changes in government regulations and legislation could limit our future performance and growth.. The banking industry is heavily regulated. We are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance is costly and restricts certain of our activities. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance fund, depositors, customers and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. The burdens imposed by federal and state regulations put banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors, such as finance companies, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Changes in the laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others.. Since the 2008 financial crisis, financial institutions generally have been subjected to increased regulation and scrutiny from federal regulatory authorities. The U.S. Congress responded to the financial crisis by enacting a variety of statutes, in particular the Dodd-Frank Act, which contains numerous far-reaching changes and reforms for the financial services industry and directs federal regulatory agencies to issue regulations to implement these reforms. The Dodd-Frank Act also restructured the regulation of depository institutions, including the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the \"CFPB\") to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules adopted to implement those provisions have made far-reaching changes to the regulatory framework under which we operate and have had, and may continue to have, a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burdens and compliance costs.. The current regulatory environment for financial institutions may be affected by future legislative and regulatory changes, including amendments to key provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and/or to banking regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act. Legislation is pending before the U.S. Congress that would, if enacted, amend or repeal certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, in February 2017, President Trump issued an executive order calling for the administration to. 17. review U.S. financial laws and regulations in order to determine their consistency with a set of core principles identified in the order. The currently proposed legislation, as well as possible changes in laws or regulation resulting from the regulatory review mandated by the executive order, could result in the amendment of or delayed implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations thereunder.. Future changes to the laws and regulations applicable to the financial industry, if enacted or adopted, may impact our profitability or financial condition, require more oversight or change certain of our business practices, and expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. We cannot predict whether any such legislative or regulatory changes, including those that could benefit our business and results of operations, will be enacted or adopted or, if they are, whether they will have a material effect on us.. We have become subject to more stringent regulatory capital requirements, which may limit our operations and potential growth or adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or to repurchase shares.. The Company and IBERIABANK are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the FRB and the OFI, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements. We must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by our banking regulators, which can change depending on general economic conditions and the Company's particular condition, risk profile, growth plans, and regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If at any time we fail to meet minimum established capital guidelines and/or other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected.. In 2013, the U.S. banking regulatory agencies adopted a final rule to implement the revised capital adequacy standards of the Basel Committee, or \"Basel III\", and to address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. We became subject to the new rule on January 1, 2015, and certain provisions of the new rule are being phased in from that date through January 1, 2019. The revised capital adequacy rules implement numerous requirements which require us and IBERIABANK to satisfy more stringent capital and liquidity standards than in the past.. Management believes that, at December 31, 2017, the Company and IBERIABANK would have met all applicable Basel III capital adequacy requirements on a fully phased-in basis if such requirements were then effective. However, these requirements, and any other new regulations, could result in lower returns, regulatory actions if we were unable to comply with such requirements, and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares, or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Compliance with current or new capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect our ability to expand or maintain present business levels.  Additional information, including the Company's and IBERIABANK's compliance with applicable capital adequacy standards at December 31, 2017, is provided in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources\" incorporated herein by reference.. We are required to conduct and submit annual stress tests, the results of which could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or to compete for business opportunities.. The Dodd-Frank Act requires us to submit a stress test to the FRB that projects the Company's performance under various economic scenarios provided by the FRB. We are required to make certain assumptions in modeling future performance and must support these assumptions through statistical analysis and observed market behavior where applicable. The outcome of the FRB's analysis of the Company's projected performance (to include capital, earnings, and balance sheet changes) could hinder our ability to pay cash dividends to shareholders as has been the Company's practice. The results of the stress test could also impact the FRB's future decision making regarding future acquisitions by the Company.. We are required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for our bank in times of stress.. Under federal law, we are required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to our bank, and to commit resources to support our bank if necessary. We may be required to commit additional resources to our bank at times when we may not be in a financial position to provide such resources or when it may not be in our, or our shareholders' or our creditors' best interests to do so. Providing such support is more likely during times of financial stress for us and our bank, which may make any capital we are required to raise to provide such support more expensive than it might otherwise be. In addition, any capital loans we make to our bank are subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of our bank. In the event of our bankruptcy, any commitment by us to a federal banking regulator to maintain the capital of our bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment.. 18. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Secrecy Act or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions against us.. The Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, requires financial institutions to design and implement programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions, including restrictions on conducting acquisitions or establishing new branches. While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, these policies and procedures may not be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our use of third party vendors and our other ongoing third party business relationships are subject to increasing regulatory requirements and attention.. We regularly use third party vendors as part of our business. We also have substantial ongoing business relationships with other third parties. These types of third party relationships are subject to increasingly demanding regulatory requirements and attention by our federal bank regulators. Regulation requires us to perform due diligence and ongoing monitoring and control over our third party vendors and other ongoing third party business relationships. In certain cases we may be required to renegotiate our agreements with these vendors to meet these requirements, which could increase our costs. We expect that our regulators will hold us responsible for deficiencies in our oversight and control of our third party relationships and in the performance of the parties with which we have these relationships. As a result, if our regulators conclude that we have not exercised adequate oversight and control over our third party vendors or other ongoing third party business relationships or that such third parties have not performed appropriately, we could be subject to enforcement actions, including civil money penalties or other administrative or judicial penalties or fines as well as requirements for customer remediation, any of which could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Possible future increases in FDIC deposit insurance premiums would adversely affect our earnings.. Under a rule adopted by the FDIC in 2011 to revise the federal deposit insurance system, deposit insurance assessments for all banks were lowered starting in the third quarter of 2016, the quarter after the ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund's deposit insurance reserves to estimated insured deposits (the \"reserve ratio\") reached 1.15%. Also in the third quarter of 2016, banks such as IBERIABANK with an assessment base (total assets less tangible capital) of over $10 billion became subject to a surcharge assessment at an annual rate of 4.5 basis points. The surcharge assessment, which is assessed against the assessment base of covered institutions, less $10 billion, will end when the reserve ratio reaches or exceeds 1.35%, but no later than December 31, 2018. Management believes that the surcharge will have an immaterial effect on our deposit insurance assessments. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Non-interest Expense\" in Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. In 2011, the FDIC increased the Deposit Insurance Fund's target reserve ratio to 2.0% of insured deposits, and additional increases in our assessment rate may be required in the future to achieve this targeted ratio.  In addition, if the number of bank failures increases in the future, the FDIC may set higher deposit insurance premiums or impose special assessments. Any future increases in FDIC deposit insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws.. The enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") on December 22, 2017 made significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code, many of which are highly complex and may require interpretations and implementing regulations. As a result of the TCJA's reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, we were required to write down our deferred tax assets and to record a provisional one-time charge in income tax expense in the quarter ended December 31, 2017 of approximately $51 million, which amount is subject to refinement in future periods as further information becomes available. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Income Taxes\" in Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. Furthermore, we may incur additional meaningful expenses (including professional fees) as the TCJA is implemented, and the expected impact of certain aspects of the statute remains unclear and subject to change.. 19. The TCJA includes a number of provisions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for residential real estate. These changes include: (i) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (ii) the elimination of interest deductions for home equity loans, (iii) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, and (iv) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes. The TCJA may have an adverse effect on the market for and the valuation of residential properties, as well as on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. The value of the properties securing loans in our loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership. Such an impact could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our reported financial results depend on our management's selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates, and there may be changes in accounting policies or accounting standards that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. Our management must also exercise judgment in selecting assumptions and estimates inherent in deriving certain financial statement line items. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy, method, assumption and/or estimate to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under another acceptable alternative.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the form and content of our external financial statements.  Recently, the FASB has finalized new accounting standard updates related to the calculation of the allowance for credit losses and accounting for leases, amongst other ancillary finalized updates.  A discussion of the recent significant accounting standard updates which have been issued are included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated herein by reference. Accounting standard updates have the potential to alter previously issued or future financial statements depending on their deviation from current standards or industry practices and the implementation method prescribed by the FASB.  In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and our independent registered auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to intangible asset risk, which could negatively impact our financial results.. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair value, and, as such, business acquisitions typically result in recording goodwill. We perform a goodwill evaluation at least annually to test for goodwill impairment. As part of its testing, the Company first assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If the Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount using these qualitative factors, the Company compares the fair value of goodwill with its carrying amount, and then measures impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Adverse conditions in our business climate, including a significant decline in future operating cash flows, a significant change in our stock price or market capitalization, or a deviation from our expected growth rate and performance may significantly affect the fair value of our goodwill and may trigger impairment losses, which could be material to our operating results and financial condition.. We completed such an evaluation for the Company during the fourth quarter of 2017 and concluded that an impairment charge was not necessary for the year ended December 31, 2017. We cannot provide assurance, however, that we will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have an adverse effect on our shareholders' equity and financial results and could cause a decline in our stock price.. The required accounting treatment of troubled loans we acquired through acquisitions could result in higher net interest margins and interest income in current periods and lower net interest margins and interest income in future periods.. Under GAAP, we are required to record troubled loans acquired through acquisitions at fair value, which may underestimate or overestimate the actual performance of such loans. If these loans outperform our original fair value estimates,. 20. the difference between our original estimate and the actual performance of the loan (the \"discount\") is accreted into net interest income. Thus, our net interest margins may initially appear higher. Conversely, if these loans under-perform our original fair value estimates, our net interest margins would be lower than initially estimated. We expect the yields on our loans to decline as our acquired loan portfolio pays down or matures, and we expect downward pressure on our interest income to the extent that the runoff on our acquired loan portfolio is not replaced with comparable high-yielding loans. This could result in higher net interest margins and interest income in current periods and lower net interest rate margins and interest income in future periods.. OPERATIONAL RISKS. A failure in or an attack on our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our business, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause financial losses.. Our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets. These transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Due to the breadth of our client base and our geographical reach, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure is challenging, particularly as a result of rapidly evolving legal and regulatory requirements, technological shifts, integration of new platforms and third party relationships. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities, or those of our third party vendors, may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, cyber attack or other unforeseen catastrophic events, which may adversely affect our ability to process transactions or services.. In addition, our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks, as well as those of our third party vendors. Although we take protective measures to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our and our clients' information across all geographic and product lines, and endeavor to modify these protective measures as circumstances warrant, the nature of these threats continues to evolve. As a result, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other events that could have an adverse security impact. Despite the defensive measures we take to manage our internal technological and operational infrastructure, these threats may originate externally from third parties such as foreign governments, organized crime and other hackers, and outsource or infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally from within our organization. Given the increasingly high volume of our transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they can be discovered and rectified.. We also face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems, data or infrastructure. In addition, as interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients' systems.. If one or more of these cyber incidents occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, as well as our clients' or other third parties' operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, substantial costs, regulatory penalties and/or client dissatisfaction or loss. Potential costs of a cyber attack may include, but would not be limited to, remediation costs, increased protection costs, lost revenue from the unauthorized use of proprietary information or the loss of current and/or future customers, and litigation.. We maintain an insurance policy which we believe provides sufficient coverage at a manageable expense for an institution of our size and scope with similar technological systems. However, no assurance can be given that this policy would be sufficient to cover all potential financial losses, damages, penalties, including lost revenues, should we experience any one or more of our or a third party's systems failing or experiencing attack.. The loss of certain key personnel could negatively affect our operations.. Although we have employed a significant number of additional executive officers and other key personnel, our success continues to depend in large part on the retention of a limited number of key executive management, lending and other personnel. We could undergo a difficult transition period if we were to lose the services of any of these individuals. Our success. 21. also depends on the experience of our banking facilities' managers and lending officers and on their relationships with the customers and communities they serve. The loss of these key persons could negatively impact the affected banking operations. The unexpected loss of key senior managers, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results.. Catastrophic events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. The occurrence of catastrophic events, including weather events and other natural disasters such as hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, floods and fires, or other disasters, such as crime, terrorism and other acts of violence, could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Such events can disrupt our operations, cause damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by these catastrophes will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in payment delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses.. We may be subject to increased litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to our reputation.. The Company and IBERIABANK have been named from time to time as defendants in class actions and other litigation relating to our businesses and activities. Litigation may include claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. We and our subsidiaries are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.. In addition, in recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed \"lender liability.\" Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders.. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us, including our subsidiaries, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause significant harm to our reputation.. STRATEGIC/REPUTATIONAL RISKS. Our financial performance will be negatively impacted if we are unable to execute our growth strategy, which includes organic growth and growth through acquisitions.. Historically, the Company has grown organically and supplemented that growth with select acquisitions. Our success depends primarily on generating loans and deposits of acceptable risk and profitability. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in continuing our organic, or internal, growth strategy. Our ability to identify appropriate markets for expansion, recruit and retain qualified personnel, and fund growth at a reasonable cost, depends upon prevailing economic conditions, maintenance of sufficient capital, competitive factors, changes in banking laws, and other factors.. Supplementing our internal growth through acquisitions has been an important part of our strategic focus, and acquisitions have comprised a significant portion of our asset growth since 1995. Our acquisition efforts have focused on select markets and targeted entities. The availability of acquisition candidates that meet our strategic objectives can fluctuate, and current institutions for sale in the market may not meet our strategic objectives. Such circumstances may limit our ability to supplement our growth through acquisitions. As consolidation of the banking industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We compete with other banking organizations for acquisition opportunities, and many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do and may be able or willing to pay more for an acquisition than we are able or willing to pay. We also may need additional debt or equity financing in the future to fund acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing or, if available, it may not be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. Our issuance of additional equity securities would dilute existing shareholders' interest in us and may have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. If we are unable to locate suitable acquisition candidates willing to combine with us on terms acceptable to us, or we are otherwise unable to obtain additional debt or equity financing necessary for us to continue making acquisitions, we would be required to find other methods to grow our business, and we may not grow at the same rate we have grown in the past, or at all.. 22. In addition to the normal operating challenges inherent in managing a larger financial institution, each of our acquisitions and potential future acquisitions is subject to appropriate regulatory approval. Our regulators may require that we demonstrate that we have appropriately integrated our prior acquisitions, or any future acquisitions we may do, before permitting us to engage in any future material acquisitions.. The success of our financial institution acquisitions will depend on a number of uncertain factors.. The success of our financial institution acquisitions depends on a number of factors, including, without limitation:. • Our ability to integrate the businesses acquired into IBERIABANK's current operations, including the conversion of customer loan and deposit data from the acquired banks' data processing systems to our data processing systems;. • Our ability to limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers in the acquired businesses and to successfully retain and manage interest-earning assets (i.e., loans) acquired;. • Our ability to attract new deposits and to generate new interest-earning assets in the geographic areas previously served by the acquired businesses;. • Our ability to effectively compete in new markets in which we did not previously have a presence;. • Our success in deploying the cash acquired in these transactions into assets bearing sufficiently high yields without incurring unacceptable risk;. • Our ability to control the incremental non-interest expense from the acquired businesses in a manner that enables us to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio;. • Our ability to retain and attract the appropriate personnel to staff and maintain the acquired businesses; and. • Our ability to earn acceptable levels of interest and non-interest income, including fee income, from the acquired businesses.. In any acquisition involving a financial institution, particularly one involving the transfer of a large number of branches and/or customers, there may be business and service changes and disruptions, including delays or errors in the data conversion process, that result in the loss of customers or cause customers to close their accounts and move their business to competing financial institutions. Integration of such acquired businesses is an operation of substantial size and expense, and may be impacted by general market and economic conditions or government actions affecting the financial services industry. Integration efforts also are likely to divert our management's attention and resources. No assurance can be given that we will be able to integrate these acquired businesses successfully. The integration process could also result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of bank acquisitions. Further, we may encounter unexpected difficulties or costs during the integration that could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition, perhaps materially. Additionally, no assurance can be given that the operation of acquired businesses will not adversely affect our existing profitability, that we will be able to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by our existing banking business, that we will be able to compete effectively in the market areas currently served by the acquired businesses, or that we will be able to manage any growth resulting from financial institution acquisitions effectively.. Our ability to grow acquired businesses following these transactions depends in part on our ability to retain certain key personnel we expect to hire and/or retain in connection with these transactions. We believe that the ties these employees have in the local banking markets previously served by their acquired businesses are vital to our ability to maintain our relationships with existing customers and to generate new business in these markets. Our failure to hire or retain these employees could adversely affect the success of these transactions and our future growth.. The modeled returns of financial institution acquisitions will depend on a number of uncertain factors, and actual results could differ materially from our expectations.. We undertake a process in performing due diligence on financial institution acquisition targets. While this process attempts to be comprehensive, factors can arise that were not discovered or anticipated by us in this exercise. Additionally, our modeled returns are based on a variety of assumptions to include synergies, cost savings, credit losses, growth, and the fair value of assets, liabilities and contracts acquired. To the extent such factors arise or actual results differ from our assumptions, our actual shareholder returns on any given acquisition could differ materially from our modeled expectations.. 23. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth, which may adversely impact our financial performance in future periods.. Our future financial performance depends to a large extent on our ability to successfully manage our growth.  Our growth has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our operations and management. Whether through acquisitions or organic growth, our current plan to expand our business is dependent upon the ability of our officers and other key employees to:. • continue to implement and improve our internal risk controls over operations, credit, financial, management and other risk categories and processes, as well as our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage a growing number of client relationships;. • scale our technology platform and operational infrastructure;. • integrate our acquisitions and develop consistent policies throughout the various businesses acquired; and. • manage a growing number of client relationships.. We may not successfully implement improvements to, or integrate, our information and control systems, procedures and processes in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. In particular, our systems, controls and procedures must be able to accommodate an increase in transaction volume and the infrastructure that comes with new products, branches, markets or any combination thereof. Thus, our growth strategy may divert management from our existing operation and may require us to incur additional expenditures to expand our administrative and operational infrastructure, which may adversely affect earnings, shareholder returns, and our efficiency ratio.. If we are unable to effectively manage and grow our Company, our business and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, if we are unable to manage future expansion in our operations, we may experience compliance and operational problems, have to slow the pace of growth, or have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth, any one of which could adversely affect our business.. Our recent expansion in South Florida entails geographic and client base integration risks.. On July 31, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Sabadell United Bank, N.A. (\"Sabadell\"), a bank headquartered in Miami, Florida with assets of $5.7 billion. The businesses and current markets of the Company and Sabadell differ and, accordingly, our results of operations after the Sabadell acquisition may be affected by certain factors unlike those previously affecting our independent results. For example, while we operate primarily in eight states (Louisiana, Arkansas, Tennessee, Alabama, Texas, Florida, Georgia and South Carolina), Sabadell's operations were concentrated in South Florida. All of Sabadell's branch and loan production offices were located in Florida and approximately 95% of its deposits originated in the Miami-Fort Lauderdale-West Palm Beach metropolitan statistical area. As a result of the Sabadell acquisition, Florida is now the Company's largest state by deposits. The changes in geographic concentration, loan mix and client base resulting from the Sabadell acquisition present risks different from those faced by us in operations in other states.. Our acquisition of Gibraltar Private Bank & Trust Co. (\"Gibraltar\") is subject to execution and integration risks.. On October 19, 2017, the Company announced the signing of a definitive agreement for the Company to acquire Gibraltar, which is headquartered in Coral Gables, Florida. The Company anticipates closing the Gibraltar acquisition in the first quarter of 2018. The following factors related to the proposed Gibraltar acquisition, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward looking statements or historical performance:. • changes in the anticipated timing for closing the transaction;. • difficulties and delays in integrating the Company's and Gibraltar's businesses or fully realizing projected cost savings and other projected benefits of the transaction;. • business disruption during the pendency of or following the transaction; the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth;. • changes in interest rates and capital markets;. • diversion of management time on transaction-related issues;. • reputational risks and the reaction of customers and counterparties to the transaction; and. • changes in asset quality and credit risk as a result of the transaction.. 24. Our ability to achieve and maintain expense reduction and earnings enhancement initiatives may be adversely affected by external factors not within our control.. We continuously assess opportunities for expense reduction and revenue enhancement to improve annual returns. While many of the elements necessary to achieve certain initiatives are within our control, others such as interest rates and prevailing economic conditions, which influence expenses and revenues, depend on external factors not within our control, and there can be no assurance that external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to fully implement and accomplish past and future initiatives.. Our success depends on our ability to respond to the threats and opportunities of fintech innovation.. Fintech developments, such as bitcoin, have the potential to disrupt the financial industry and change the way banks do business. Investment in new technology to stay competitive would result in significant costs and increased risks of cyber security attacks. Our success depends on our ability to adapt to the pace of the rapidly changing technological environment, which is crucial to retention and acquisition of customers. On December 2, 2016, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency announced that it will begin granting limited-purpose national bank charters to fintech companies that offer bank products and services. The federal charter would largely allow fintech companies to operate nationwide under a single set of national standards, without needing to seek state-by-state licenses or joining with brick-and-mortar banks, and may therefore allow fintech companies to more easily compete with us for financial products and services in the communities we serve.. We face substantial competition and are subject to certain regulatory constraints not applicable to some of our competitors, which may decrease our growth or profits.. We face substantial competition for deposits, and for credit, title and trust relationships, and other financial services and products in the communities we serve. Competing providers include other banks, thrifts and trust companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking operations, credit unions, finance companies, title companies, money market funds and other financial and nonfinancial companies which may offer products functionally equivalent to those offered by us. Competing providers may have greater financial resources than we do and offer services within and outside the market areas we serve. In addition to this challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, our competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that financial institutions have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past. The increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. If we are unable to adjust both to increased competition for traditional banking services and changing customer needs and preferences, our financial performance could be adversely affected.. Some of our competitors, including credit unions, are not subject to certain regulatory constraints, such as the Community Reinvestment Act, which, among other things, requires us to implement procedures to make and monitor loans throughout the communities we serve. Credit unions also have federal tax exemptions that may allow them to offer lower rates on loans and higher rates on deposits than taxpaying financial institutions such as commercial banks. In addition, non-depository institution competitors are generally not subject to the extensive regulation applicable to institutions, like IBERIABANK, that offer federally insured deposits. Other institutions may have other competitive advantages in particular markets or may be willing to accept lower profit margins on certain products. These differences in resources, regulation, competitive advantages, and business strategy may decrease our net interest margin, may increase our operating costs, and may make it harder for us to compete profitably.. Reputational risk and social factors may impact our results.. Our ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon consumer and other external perceptions of our business practices and/or our financial health. Adverse perceptions regarding our business practices and/or our financial health could damage our reputation in both the customer and funding markets, leading to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. Adverse developments with respect to the consumer or other external perceptions regarding the practices of our competitors, or our industry as a whole, may also adversely impact our reputation. In addition, adverse reputational impacts on third parties with whom we have important relationships may also adversely impact our reputation. Adverse impacts to our reputation, or the reputation of our industry, may lead to greater regulatory and/or legislative scrutiny and litigation risk. We carefully monitor internal and external developments for areas of potential reputational risk and have established governance structures to assist in evaluating such risks in our business practices and decisions.. 25. RISKS ABOUT OUR SECURITIES. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments.. There can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends in the future. Cash available to pay dividends to our shareholders is derived primarily, if not entirely, from dividends paid to us from our subsidiaries. Cash available to pay dividends to our shareholders is derived primarily, if not entirely, from dividends paid to us from our subsidiary bank, IBERIABANK. The ability of our subsidiary bank to pay dividends to us as well as our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is limited by regulatory and legal restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. In addition, if we fail to satisfy the minimum capital conservation buffer requirement, we will be subject to certain limitations, which include restrictions on capital distributions. We may also decide to limit the payment of dividends even when we have the legal ability to pay them in order to retain earnings for use in our business. Further, any lenders making loans to us may impose financial covenants that may be more restrictive than regulatory requirements with respect to the payment of dividends.. We are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock if the required payments on our subordinated debentures have not been made. Additionally, dividends on our common stock could be adversely impacted if dividend payments on our preferred stock have not been made.. Although we have paid cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the past, we may not pay cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the future.. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such purpose. We have a history of paying dividends to our shareholders. However, future cash dividends will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, the need to maintain adequate capital levels, the need to comply with safe and sound banking practices as well as meet regulatory expectations, and other factors, including the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, which ability may be restricted by statutory, contractual or other constraints. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends even if the necessary financial conditions are met and if sufficient cash is available for distribution. See Note 13 and Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion on factors impacting or restricting our ability to pay dividends. Our common stock and our preferred stock are subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness.. Shares of our common stock and our Series B and Series C preferred stock are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness of the Company. This means that shares of the common stock and depositary shares, which represent fractional interests in shares of Series B and Series C preferred stock, rank junior to all our existing and future indebtedness and our other non-equity claims with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us, including claims in the event of our liquidation. We are prohibited from paying dividends on any of our capital stock if the required payments on our subordinated debentures have not been made.. Our common stock is subordinate to our existing and future preferred stock.. The Company has outstanding Series B and Series C preferred stock that is senior to the common stock and could adversely affect the ability of the Company to declare or pay dividends or distributions of common stock. Under the terms of the Series B and Series C preferred stock, the Company is prohibited from paying dividends on its common stock unless all full dividends for the latest dividend period on all outstanding shares of Series B and Series C preferred stock have been declared and paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside. Furthermore, if the Company experiences a material deterioration in its financial condition, liquidity, capital, results of operations or risk profile, the Company's regulators may not permit it to make future payments on its Series B and Series C preferred stock, thereby preventing the payment of dividends on the common stock.. We may issue debt and/or equity securities, or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our existing preferred and common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, and such an issuance could negatively affect the value of our common and preferred stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and. 26. preferred securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock. Subject to certain conditions, holders of another class of preferred stock may be entitled to preferences over the Series B and Series C preferred stock. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future.. The trading history of our common stock is characterized by modest trading volume.. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. During 2017, the average daily trading volume of our common stock was approximately 445,000 shares. The average daily trading volume of our depositary shares, which represent fractional shares of our Series B preferred stock, was approximately 5,500 shares. In addition, our Series C preferred stock had average daily trading volume of approximately 3,300 shares.. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will lead to a more active trading market in our securities or how much more liquid these markets might become. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our securities at any given time, which presence is dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control.. The market price of our securities can be volatile.. The market prices of our common and preferred stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to many factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following:. • actual or unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. • changes in interest rates;. • changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate;. • press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry;. • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors;. • future sales of our securities;. • changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and. • other developments affecting our competitors or us.. These factors may adversely affect the trading prices of our securities, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent our shareholders from selling their securities at or above the public offering price. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market prices of our securities, regardless of our trading performance.. In the past, shareholders have brought securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources.. 27"
