[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our operations. The following highlights some of the factors that have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our operations.. 22. Table of Contents. We have incurred significant losses from inception through 2017 and there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and sustain future profitability.. We have incurred significant losses since our inception. We incurred a net loss of $14.3 million in fiscal 2017 and have an accumulated deficit of $201.9 million at December 31, 2017. We may not be able to achieve profitability.. We rely on intellectual property and proprietary rights to maintain our competitive position and may not be able to protect these rights.. We rely heavily on proprietary technology that we protect primarily through licensing arrangements, patents, trade secrets, proprietary know-how and non-disclosure agreements. There can be no assurance that any pending or future patent applications will be granted or that any current or future patents, regardless of whether we are an owner or a licensee of the patent, will not be challenged, rendered unenforceable, invalidated, or circumvented or that the rights will provide a competitive advantage to us. There can also be no assurance that our trade secrets or non-disclosure agreements will provide meaningful protection of our proprietary information. Further, we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us or that our technology will not infringe upon patents or other rights owned by others. There is a risk that our patent applications will not result in granted patents or that granted patents will not provide significant protection for our products and technology. Unauthorized third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, or copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology that our patents do not cover. In addition, because patent applications in the U.S. are not generally publicly disclosed until eighteen months after the application is filed, applications may have been filed by third parties that relate to our technology. Moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the U.S. The rights provided by a patent are finite in time. Over the coming years, certain patents relating to current products will expire in the U.S. and abroad thus allowing third parties to utilize certain of our technologies. In the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. In addition, in the future, we may be required to assert infringement claims against third parties, and there can be no assurance that one or more parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Any resulting litigation or proceeding could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our management personnel, whether or not such litigation or proceeding is determined in our favor. In addition, to the extent that any of our intellectual property and proprietary rights was ever deemed to violate the proprietary rights of others in any litigation or proceeding or as a result of any claim, we may be prevented from using them, which could cause a termination of our ability to sell our products. Litigation could also result in a judgment or monetary damages being levied against us.. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial results. 23. Table of Contents. From time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations and other legal matters, both inside and outside the United States, arising in the ordinary course of our business or otherwise. Legal proceedings are often lengthy, taking place over a period of years with interim motions or judgments subject to multiple levels of review (such as appeals or rehearings) before the outcome is final. Litigation is subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. For these and other reasons, we may choose to settle legal proceedings and claims, regardless of their actual merit.. If a legal proceeding were finally resolved against us, it could result in significant compensatory damages, and in certain circumstances, punitive or trebled damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief imposed on us. If our existing insurance does not cover the amount or types of damages awarded, or if other resolutions or actions taken as a result of the legal proceeding were to restrain our ability to market one or more of our material products or services, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, legal proceedings, and any adverse resolution thereof, can result in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our business.. We may be exposed to significant product liability for which we may not have sufficient insurance coverage or be able to procure sufficient insurance coverage.. Our product and general liability insurance coverage may be inadequate with respect to potential claims and adequate insurance coverage may not be available in sufficient amounts or at a reasonable cost in the future. If available at all, product liability insurance for the medical device industry generally is expensive. Future product liability claims could be costly to defend and/or costly to resolve and could harm our reputation and business.. Sales and market acceptance of our products is dependent upon the coverage and reimbursement decisions made by third-party payors. The failure of third-party payors to provide appropriate levels of coverage and reimbursement for the use of our products and treatments facilitated by our products could harm our business and prospects.. Sales and market acceptance of our medical products and the treatments facilitated by our products in the United States and other countries is dependent upon the coverage decisions and reimbursement policies established by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. Market acceptance of our products and treatments has and will continue to depend upon our customers' ability to obtain an appropriate level of coverage for, and reimbursement from third-party payors for, these products and treatments. In the U.S., CMS establishes coverage and reimbursement policies for healthcare providers treating Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. Under current CMS policies, varying reimbursement levels have been established for our products and treatments. Coverage policies for Medicare patients may vary by regional Medicare carriers in the absence of a national coverage determination and reimbursement rates for treatments may vary based on the geographic price index. Coverage and reimbursement policies and rates applicable to patients with private insurance are dependent upon individual. 24. Table of Contents. private payor decisions which may not follow the policies and rates established by CMS. The use of our products and treatments outside the United States is similarly affected by coverage and reimbursement policies adopted by foreign governments and private insurance carriers. We cannot provide assurance that government or private third-party payors will continue to reimburse for our products or services using the existing codes, nor can we provide assurance that the payment rates will be adequate. If providers and physicians are unable to obtain reimbursement for our products or services at cost-effective levels, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, in the event that the current coding and/or payment methodology for these products or services changes, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and business operations.. Our business is dependent upon future market growth of full field digital mammography systems, digital computer aided detection products, and tomosynthesis as well as advanced image analysis and workflow solutions for use with MRI and CT and the market growth of electronic brachytherapy: this growth may not occur or may occur too slowly to benefit us.. Our future business is substantially dependent on the continued growth in the market for electronic brachytherapy, full field digital mammography systems, digital computer aided detection products and tomosynthesis as well as advanced image analysis and workflow solutions for use with MRI and CT. The market for these products may not continue to develop or may develop at a slower rate than we anticipate due to a variety of factors, including, general economic conditions, delays in hospital spending for capital equipment, the significant costs associated with the procurement of full field digital mammography systems and CAD products and MRI and CT systems and the reliance on third party insurance reimbursement. In addition, we may not be able to successfully develop or obtain FDA clearance for our proposed products.. A limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our total revenue. The loss of a principal customer could seriously hurt our business.. Our principal sales distribution channel for our digital products is through our OEM partners which accounted for 36% of our total revenue in 2017, with one major customer, GE Healthcare at 25% of our revenue. In addition, six customers accounted for 37% of our total revenue, which includes both OEM partners and direct customers. A limited number of major customers have in the past and may continue in the future to account for a significant portion of our revenue. The loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers could materially adversely affect our business and operating results.. The markets for our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments may not develop as expected.. The successful commercialization of our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including:. <U+0095>   uncertainty of the development of a market for such product or treatment;. <U+0095>   trends relating to, or the introduction or existence of, competing products, technologies or alternative treatments or therapies that may be more effective, safer or easier to use than our products, technologies, treatments or therapies;. 25. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   the perceptions of our products or treatments as compared to other products and treatments;. <U+0095>   recommendation and support for the use of our products or treatments by influential customers, such as hospitals, radiological practices, breast surgeons and radiation oncologists and treatment centers;. <U+0095>   the availability and extent of data demonstrating the clinical efficacy of our products or treatments;. <U+0095>   competition, including the presence of competing products sold by companies with longer operating histories, more recognizable names and more established distribution networks; and. <U+0095>   other technological developments.. Often, the development of a significant market for a product or treatment will depend upon the establishment of a reimbursement code or an appropriate reimbursement level for use of the product or treatment. Moreover, even if addressed, such reimbursement codes or levels frequently are not established until after a product or treatment is developed and commercially introduced, which can delay the successful commercialization of a product or treatment.. If we are unable to successfully commercialize and create a significant market for our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments, our business and prospects could be harmed.. If goodwill and/or other intangible assets that we have recorded in connection with our acquisitions become impaired, we could have to take significant charges against earnings.. In connection with the accounting for our acquisitions, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. We have recorded multiple impairments: $26.8 million in September 2011, $14.0 million in June 2015, $4.7 million in September 2017 and $2.0 million in December 2017. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill of $8.4 million at December 31, 2017 and our other intangible assets have been impaired. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings which could materially adversely affect our reported results of operations in future periods.. The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and government authorities may determine that we have failed to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations.. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, compliance with which imposes substantial costs on us. Such laws and regulations include those that are directed at payment for services and the conduct of operations, preventing fraud and abuse, and prohibiting general business corporations, such as ours, from engaging in practices that may influence professional decision-making, such as splitting fees with physicians. Many healthcare laws are complex, and their application to specific services and relationships may not be clear. Further, healthcare laws differ from state to state and it is. 26. Table of Contents. difficult to ensure our business complies with evolving laws in all states. In addition, we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. Federal and state legislatures and agencies periodically consider proposals to revise or create additional statutory and regulatory requirements. Such proposals, if implemented, could impact our operations, the use of our services, and our ability to market new services, or could create unexpected liabilities for us.. We may in the future become the subject of regulatory or other investigations or proceedings, and our interpretations of applicable laws, rules and regulations may be challenged. For example, regulatory authorities or other parties may assert that our arrangements with the physician practices to which we lease equipment and provide management services violate anti-kickback, fee splitting, or self-referral laws and regulations and could require us to restructure these arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. Such investigations, proceedings and challenges could also result in substantial defense costs to us and a diversion of management's time and attention. In addition, violations of these laws are punishable by monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from participation in government-sponsored healthcare programs, and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such laws and regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock.. We may incur substantial costs defending our interpretations of federal and state government regulations and if we lose, the government could force us to restructure our operations and subject us to fines, monetary penalties and possibly exclude us from participation in government-sponsored health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.. Our operations, including our arrangements with healthcare providers, are subject to extensive federal and state government regulation and are subject to audits, inquiries and investigations from government agencies from time to time. Those laws may have related rules and regulations that are subject to interpretation and may not provide definitive guidance as to their application to our operations, including our arrangements with physicians and professional corporations.. We believe we are in substantial compliance with these laws, rules and regulations based upon what we believe are reasonable and defensible interpretations of these laws, rules and regulations. However, federal and state laws are broadly worded and may be interpreted or applied by prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authorities in ways that we cannot predict. Accordingly, our arrangements and business practices may be the subject of government scrutiny or be found to violate applicable laws. If federal or state government officials challenge our operations or arrangements with third parties that we have structured based upon our interpretation of these laws, rules and regulations, the challenge could potentially disrupt our business operations and we may incur substantial defense costs, even if we successfully defend our interpretation of these laws, rules and regulations. In addition, if the government successfully challenges our interpretation as to the applicability of these laws, rules and regulations as they relate to our operations and arrangements with third parties, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 27. Table of Contents. In the event regulatory action were to limit or prohibit us from carrying on our business as we presently conduct it or from expanding our operations into certain jurisdictions, we may need to make structural, operational and organizational modifications to our Company or our contractual arrangements with physicians and professional corporations. Our operating costs could increase significantly as a result. We could also lose contracts or our revenues could decrease under existing contracts. Any restructuring would also negatively impact our operations because our management's time and attention would be diverted from running our business in the ordinary course.. Regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products.. In August 2012, the SEC adopted a rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The conflict minerals rule requires companies annually to perform diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and other specified countries. The rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tungsten. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible charges to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so.. Compliance with the many laws and regulations governing the healthcare industry could restrict our sales and marketing practices, and exclusion from such programs as a result of a violation of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Once our products are sold, we must comply with various U.S. federal and state laws, rules and regulations pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims laws, anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws, rules and regulations. Violations of the fraud and abuse laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs, workers' compensation programs and TRICARE. Compliance with these laws could restrict our sales and marketing practices, and exclusion from such programs as a result of a violation of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Anti-Kickback Statutes. 28. Table of Contents. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly or willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce:. <U+0095>   the referral of an individual for a service or product for which payment may be made by Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare program; or. <U+0095>   purchasing, ordering, arranging for, or recommending the ordering of, any service or product for which payment may be made by a government-sponsored healthcare program.. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. The statutory penalties for violating the Anti-Kickback Statute include imprisonment for up to five years and criminal fines of up to $25,000 per violation. In addition, through application of other laws, conduct that violates the Anti-Kickback Statute can also give rise to False Claims Act lawsuits, civil monetary penalties and possible exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. In addition to the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, many states have their own anti-kickback laws. Often, these laws closely follow the language of the federal law, although they do not always have the same scope, exceptions, safe harbors or sanctions. In some states, these anti-kickback laws apply not only to payment made by a government health care program but also with respect to other payers, including commercial insurance companies.. Government officials have focused recent kickback enforcement efforts on, among other things, the sales and marketing activities of healthcare companies, including medical device manufacturers, and recently have brought cases against individuals or entities with personnel who allegedly offered unlawful inducements to potential or existing customers in an attempt to procure their business. This trend is expected to continue. Settlements of these cases by healthcare companies have involved significant fines and/or penalties and in some instances criminal plea or deferred prosecution agreements.. Our relationships with healthcare providers and our marketing practices are subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws.. We are subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of \"remuneration\" in return for, or to induce, the referral of business or ordering of services paid for by Medicare or other federal programs. \"Remuneration\" has been broadly interpreted to mean anything of value, including, for example, gifts, discounts, credit arrangements, and in-kind goods or services, as well as cash. Certain federal courts have held that the Anti-Kickback Statute can be violated if \"one purpose\" of a payment is to induce referrals. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute can result in imprisonment, civil or criminal fines or exclusion from Medicare and other governmental programs. Many states have adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. Some of these state prohibitions apply to referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any payor, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Additionally, we could be subject to private actions brought pursuant to the False Claims Act's \"whistleblower\" or \"qui tam\" provisions which, among other things, allege that our practices or relationships violate the Anti-Kickback Statute. The. 29. Table of Contents. False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity that, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal healthcare program. The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. In recent years, the number of suits brought by private individuals has increased dramatically. In addition, various states have enacted false claim laws analogous to the False Claims Act. Many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payor and not merely a federal healthcare program.. Although we have attempted to structure our marketing initiatives and business relationships to comply with the Anti-Kickback Statute, we cannot assure you that we will not have to defend against alleged violations from private or public entities or that the Office of Inspector General or other authorities will not find that our marketing practices and relationships violate the statute. If we are found to have violated the Anti-Kickback Statute or a similar state statute, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from the Medicare or Medicaid programs, or may be required to enter into settlement agreements with the government to avoid such sanctions. Typically, such settlement agreements require substantial payments to the government in exchange for the government to release its claims, and may also require us to enter into a Corporate Integrity Agreement.. Physician Self-Referral Laws. The federal ban on physician self-referrals, commonly known as the \"Stark Law,\" prohibits, subject to certain exceptions, physician referrals of Medicare and Medicaid patients to an entity providing certain \"designated health services\" if the physician or an immediate family member of the physician has any financial relationship with the entity. The Stark Law also prohibits the entity receiving the referral from billing for any good or service furnished pursuant to an unlawful referral, and any person collecting any amounts in connection with an unlawful referral is obligated to refund these amounts. A person who engages in a scheme to circumvent the Stark Law's referral prohibition may be fined up to $100,000 for each such arrangement or scheme. The penalties for violating the Stark Law also include civil monetary penalties of up to $15,000 per service, could result in denial of payment, disgorgements of reimbursement received under a non-compliant agreement, and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. In addition to the Stark Law, many states have their own self-referral laws. Often, these laws closely follow the language of the federal law, although they do not always have the same scope, exceptions, safe harbors or sanctions. In some states these self-referral laws apply not only to payment made by a federal health care program but also with respect to other payers, including commercial insurance companies. In addition, some state laws require physicians to disclose any financial interest they may have with a healthcare provider to their patients when referring patients to that provider even if the referral itself is not prohibited.. If we fail to comply with federal and state physician self-referral laws and regulations as they are currently interpreted or may be interpreted in the future, or if other legislative restrictions are issued, we could incur a significant loss of revenue and be subject to significant monetary penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 30. Table of Contents. We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations that limit the circumstances under which physicians who have a financial relationship with entities that furnish certain specified healthcare services may refer to such entities for the provision of such services, including clinical laboratory services, radiology and other imaging services and certain other diagnostic services. These laws and regulations also prohibit such entities from billing for services provided in violation of the laws and regulations.. We have financial relationships with physicians in the form of equipment leases and services arrangements. While we believe our arrangements with physicians are in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations, government authorities might take a contrary position or prohibited referrals may occur. Further, because we cannot be certain that we will have knowledge of all physicians who may hold an indirect ownership interest, referrals from any such physicians may cause us to violate these laws and regulations.. Violation of these laws and regulations may result in the prohibition of payment for services rendered, significant fines and penalties, and exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, expansion of our operations to new jurisdictions, new interpretations of laws in our existing jurisdictions, or new physician self-referral laws could require structural and organizational modifications of our relationships with physicians to comply with those jurisdictions' laws. Such structural and organizational modifications could result in lower profitability and failure to achieve our growth objectives.. False Claims Laws. The federal False Claims Act, or FCA, prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim or knowingly making, or causing to made, a false statement to obtain payment from the federal government. Those found in violation of the FCA can be subject to fines and penalties of three times the damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,000 and $10,000 (adjusted for inflation) for each separate false claim. Actions filed under the FCA can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government, a \"qui tam\" action, and this individual, known as a \"relator\" or, more commonly, as a \"whistleblower,\" may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in damages and penalties or by way of settlement. In addition, certain states have enacted laws modeled after the FCA, and this legislative activity is expected to increase. Qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies, including medical device manufacturers, to defend false claim actions, pay damages and penalties or be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs as a result of investigations arising out of such actions.. 31. Table of Contents. Increased Regulatory Scrutiny of Relationships with Healthcare Providers. Certain state governments and the federal government have enacted legislation, including the Physician Payments Sunshine Act provisions under the Federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, aimed at increasing transparency of our interactions with healthcare providers. As a result, we are required by law to disclose payments, gifts, and other transfers of value to certain healthcare providers in certain states and to the federal government. Any failure to comply with these legal and regulatory requirements could result in a range of fines, penalties, and/or sanctions, and could affect our business. In addition, we have devoted and will continue to devote substantial time and financial resources to develop and implement enhanced structure, policies, systems and processes to comply with these enhanced legal and regulatory requirements, which may also impact our business.. Third-Party Reimbursement. Because we expect to receive payment for our products directly from our customers, we do not anticipate relying directly on payment for any of our products from third-party payers, such as Medicare, Medicaid, commercial health insurers and managed care companies. However, our business will be affected by coverage policies adopted by federal and state governmental authorities, such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as private payers, which often follow the coverage policies of these public programs. Such policies may affect which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for those products in a particular jurisdiction. For example, our business will be indirectly impacted by the ability of a hospital or medical facility to obtain coverage and third-party reimbursement for procedures performed using our products. These third-party payers may deny coverage if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not medically necessary, was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payer, or was used for an unapproved indication. They may also pay an inadequate amount for the procedure which could cause healthcare providers to use a lower cost competitor's device or perform a medical procedure without our device.. Reimbursement decisions by particular third-party payers depend upon a number of factors, including each third-party payer's determination that use of a product is:. <U+0095>   a covered benefit under its health plan;. <U+0095>   appropriate and medically necessary for the specific indication;. <U+0095>   cost effective; and. <U+0095>   neither experimental nor investigational.. Many third-party payers use coverage decisions and payment amounts determined by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, which administers the U.S. Medicare program, as guidelines in setting their coverage and reimbursement policies. Medicare periodically reviews its reimbursement practices for various products. As a result, there is no certainty as to the future Medicare reimbursement rate for our products. In addition, those third-party payers that do not follow the CMS guidelines may adopt different coverage and reimbursement policies for our current and future products. It is possible that some third-party payers will not offer any coverage for our current or future products.. 32. Table of Contents. Furthermore, the healthcare industry in the United States is increasingly focused on cost containment as government and private insurers seek to control healthcare costs by imposing lower payment rates and negotiating reduced contract rates with third-party payers. If third-party payers deny coverage or reduce their current levels of payment, or if our production costs increase faster than increases in reimbursement levels, we may be unable to sell our products on a profitable basis.. Healthcare reform legislation in the United States may adversely affect our business and/or results of operations.. In March 2010, significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system were adopted in the form of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the \"PPACA\"). The PPACA includes provisions that, among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, beginning in 2013, the medical device industry was required to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on United States sales of most medical devices. In December 2015, as part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, collection of the medical device excise tax was suspended thru 2017. That postponement has been extended again for 2018 and 2019. We are unable to predict whether the postponement will be continued beyond 2019. While the PPACA is intended to expand health insurance coverage to uninsured persons in the United States, other elements of this legislation, such as Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, make it difficult to determine the overall impact on sales of, and reimbursement for, our products. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Any cost containment measures or other health care system reforms that are adopted could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to commercialize our existing and future products successfully.. Healthcare industry consolidation could impose pressure on our prices, reduce potential customer base and reduce demands for our systems.. Many hospitals and imaging centers have consolidated to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater market and purchasing power. If this consolidation trend continues, it could reduce the size of our potential customer base and give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining or purchasing power, which may lead to erosion of the prices for our systems or decreased margins for our systems. In addition, when hospitals and imaging centers combine, they often consolidate infrastructure, and consolidation of our customers could result in fewer overall customers.. Our products and manufacturing facilities are subject to extensive regulation with potentially significant costs for compliance.. Our CAD systems for the computer aided detection of cancer and Axxent eBx systems are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. In addition, our manufacturing operations are subject to FDA regulation and we are also subject to FDA regulations covering labeling, adverse event reporting, and the FDA's general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved or off-label uses.. 33. Table of Contents. Our failure to fully comply with applicable regulations could result in the issuance of warning letters, non-approvals, suspensions of existing approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecution. Moreover, unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new requirements could increase our application, operating and compliance burdens and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Sales of our products in certain countries outside of the U.S. are also subject to extensive regulatory approvals. Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is an expensive and time-consuming process. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals timely or at all in any foreign country in which we plan to market our CAD products and Axxent eBx systems, and if we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to generate revenue may be significantly diminished.. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for any of the other products that we may consider developing.. We have received FDA approvals for our currently offered products. Before we are able to commercialize any new product, we must obtain regulatory approvals for each indicated use for that product. The process for satisfying these regulatory requirements is lengthy and costly and will require us to comply with complex standards for research and development, clinical trials, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, and promotion of products.. Our products may be recalled even after we have received FDA or other governmental approval or clearance.. If the safety or efficacy of any of our products is called into question, the FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries may require us to recall our products, even if our product received approval or clearance by the FDA or a similar governmental body. Such a recall would divert the focus of our management and our financial resources and could materially and adversely affect our reputation with customers and our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to criminal or civil sanctions if we fail to comply with privacy regulations regarding the use and disclosure of sensitive personally identifiable information.. Numerous state and federal laws and regulations govern the collection, dissemination, use, privacy, confidentiality, security, availability and integrity of personally identifiable information, including The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, and the regulations that have been issued thereunder (\"HIPAA\"). In the provision of services to our customers, we and our third-party vendors may collect, use, maintain and transmit patient health information in ways that are subject to many of these laws and regulations.. 34. Table of Contents. Our customers are covered entities, and we are a business associate of our customers under HIPAA as a result of our contractual obligations to perform certain functions on behalf of and provide certain services to those customers. If we or any of our subcontractors experience a breach of the privacy or security of patient information, the breach reporting requirements and the liability for business associates under HIPAA could result in substantial financial liability and reputational harm.. Federal and state consumer laws are being applied increasingly by the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general to regulate the collection, use and disclosure of personal or patient health information, through web sites or otherwise, and to regulate the presentation of web site content. Numerous other federal and state laws protect the confidentiality, privacy, availability, integrity and security of personally identifiable information. These laws in many cases are more restrictive than, and not preempted by, HIPAA and may be subject to varying interpretations by courts and government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us and our customers and potentially exposing us to additional expense, adverse publicity and liability. We may not remain in compliance with the diverse privacy requirements in all of the jurisdictions in which we do business.. HIPAA and federal and state laws and regulations may require users of personally identifiable information to implement specified security measures. Evolving laws and regulations in this area could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. New personally identifiable information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA, congressional action or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we must handle healthcare related data, and the cost of complying with standards could be significant. If we do not properly comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information, we could be subject to criminal or civil sanctions.. If our security measures are breached or fail and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer's data, our service may be perceived as insecure, the attractiveness of our services to current or potential customers may be reduced, and we may incur significant liabilities.. Our services involve the storage and transmission of customers' proprietary information and patient information, including health, financial, payment and other personal or confidential information. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as other processes, to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of such information. Because of the sensitivity of this information and due to requirements under applicable laws and regulations, the effectiveness of such security efforts is very important. If our security measures are breached or fail as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, someone may be able to obtain unauthorized access to customer or patient data. Improper activities by third-parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a compromise or breach of our computer systems. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or fail to implement adequate preventive measures. Our security measures may not be effective in preventing such unauthorized access. If a breach of our security occurs, we could face damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, possible lawsuits by individuals affected by the breach and significant remediation costs and efforts to prevent future occurrences. In addition, whether there is an actual or a perceived breach of our security, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose current or potential customers.. 35. Table of Contents. Data protection laws in Europe and around the world may restrict our activities and increase our costs.. Various statutes and rules in Europe and around the world regulate privacy and data protection which may affect our collection, use, storage, and transfer of information both abroad and in the United States. New laws and regulations are being enacted, so that this area remains in a state of flux. Monitoring and complying with these laws requires substantial financial resources. Failure to comply with these laws may result in, among other things, civil and criminal liability, negative publicity, restrictions on further use of data, and/or liability under contractual warranties. In addition, changes in these laws (including newly released interpretations of these laws by courts and regulatory bodies) may limit our data access, use and disclosure, and may require increased expenditures by us.. The European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), will take effect in May 2018 and will require us to meet new and more stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data about EU residents. Failure to meet the GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue.. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of amounts that have been accrued.. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. In preparing our financial statements, we record the amount of tax payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our future effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than prior years due to numerous factors, including a change in our geographic earnings mix, changes in the measurement of our deferred taxes, and recently enacted and future tax law changes in jurisdictions in which we operate. We are also subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, and tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.. Changes in interpretation or application of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles may adversely affect our operating results.. We prepare our financial statements to conform to GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. A change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. In addition, when we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult to compare our financial results to prior periods.. 36. Table of Contents. As our operations evolve over time, we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles, including ones regarding revenue recognition, than we have applied in past periods. The application of different types of accounting principles and related potential changes may make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter, and the trading price of our common stock could suffer or become more volatile as a result.. Our acquisitions involve risks.. We have completed acquisitions in the past and we may make acquisitions in the future. Such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. Some of the potential risks involved with acquisitions are the following:. <U+0095>   difficulty in realizing anticipated financial or strategic benefits of such acquisition;. <U+0095>   diversion of capital and potential dilution of stockholder ownership;. <U+0095>   the risks related to increased indebtedness, as well as the risk such financing will not be available on satisfactory terms or at all;. <U+0095>   diversion of management's attention and other resources from current operations, including potential strain on financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures;. <U+0095>   management of employee relations across facilities;. <U+0095>   difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation and retention of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations;. <U+0095>   difficulties and unanticipated expenses related to the integration of departments, systems (including accounting systems), technologies, books and records, procedures and controls (including internal accounting controls, procedures and policies), as well as in maintaining uniform standards, including environmental management systems;. <U+0095>   assumption of known and unknown liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to quantify;. <U+0095>   inability to realize cost savings, sales increases or other benefits that we anticipate from such acquisitions, either as to amount or in the expected time frame;. <U+0095>   non-cash impairment charges or other accounting charges relating to the acquired assets; and. <U+0095>   maintaining strong relationships with our and our acquired companies' customers after the acquisitions.. If our integration efforts are not successful, we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenues, earnings or operating efficiency that we and the acquired companies achieved or might achieve separately.. Our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect.. We integrate companies that we acquire including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. We cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. To effectively. 37. Table of Contents. manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management, and financial and operational controls. If we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected.. Our quarterly and annual operating and financial results and our gross margins are likely to fluctuate significantly in future periods.. Our quarterly and annual operating and financial results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our revenue and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors that are outside of our control including, but not limited to, general economic conditions, the timing of orders from our OEM partners, our OEM partners ability to manufacture and ship their digital mammography systems, our timely receipt by the FDA for the clearance to market our products, our ability to timely engage other OEM partners for the sale of our products, the timing of product enhancements and new product introductions by us or our competitors, the pricing of our products, changes in customers' budgets, competitive conditions and the possible deferral of revenue under our revenue recognition policies.. The markets for many of our products are subject to changing technology.. The markets for many products we sell are subject to changing technology, new product introductions and product enhancements, and evolving industry standards. The introduction or enhancement of products embodying new technology or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete or result in short product life cycles or our inability to sell our products without offering a significant discount. Accordingly, our ability to compete is in part dependent on our ability to continually offer enhanced and improved products.. If we are unable to successfully introduce new technology solutions or services or fail to keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.. Our business depends on our ability to adapt to evolving technologies and industry standards and introduce new technology solutions and services accordingly. If we cannot adapt to changing technologies, our technology solutions and services may become obsolete, and our business would suffer. Because the healthcare information technology market is constantly evolving, our existing technology may become obsolete and fail to meet the requirements of current and potential customers. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing technology solutions and services, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our customers, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. The development of our proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may not be successful in developing, using, marketing, selling, or maintaining new technologies effectively or adapting our proprietary technology to evolving customer requirements or emerging industry standards, and, as a result, our business and reputation could suffer. We may not be able to introduce new technology solutions on schedule, or at all, or such solutions may not achieve market acceptance. Moreover, competitors may develop competitive products that could adversely affect our results of operations. A failure by us to introduce new products or to introduce these products on schedule could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 38. Table of Contents. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers for our products, and certain components in our products may be available from a sole or limited number of suppliers.. Our products are generally either manufactured and assembled for us by a sole manufacturer, by a limited number of manufacturers or assembled by us from supplies we obtain from a limited number of suppliers. Critical components required to manufacture our products, whether by outside manufacturers or directly by us, may be available from a sole or limited number of component suppliers. We generally do not have long-term arrangements with any of our manufacturers or suppliers. The loss of a sole or key manufacturer or supplier could materially impair our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner and would adversely affect our sales and operating results. Our business would be harmed if any of our manufacturers or suppliers could not meet our quality and performance specifications and quantity and delivery requirements.. We distribute our products in highly competitive markets and our sales may suffer as a result.. We operate in highly competitive and rapidly changing markets that contain competitive products available from nationally and internationally recognized companies. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than us and are well established. In addition, some companies have developed or may develop technologies or products that could compete with the products we manufacture and distribute or that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may achieve patent protection, regulatory approval, or product commercialization that would limit our ability to compete with them. These and other competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Disruptions in service or damage to our third-party providers' data centers could adversely affect our business.. We rely on third-parties who provide access to data centers. Our information technologies and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from various causes, including (i) acts of God and other natural disasters, war and acts of terrorism and (ii) power losses, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator error, losses of and corruption of data and similar events. We conduct business continuity planning and work with our third-party providers to protect against fires, floods, other natural disasters and general business interruptions to mitigate the adverse effects of a disruption, relocation or change in operating environment at the data centers we utilize. In addition, the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in service to our customers. Any of these events could impair or prohibit our ability to provide our services, reduce the attractiveness of our services to current or potential customers and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. 39. Table of Contents. In addition, despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure, data centers, or systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, computer viruses, programming errors, denial-of-service attacks or other attacks by third-parties seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information or similar physical or electronic breaches of security. Any of these can cause system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, which can result in service disruptions. As a result, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and hackers or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches.. If our products fail to perform properly due to errors or similar problems, our business could suffer.. Complex software, may contain defects or errors, some of which may remain undetected for a period of time. It is possible that such errors may be found after the introduction of new software or enhancements to existing software. We continually introduce new solutions and enhancements to our solutions, and, despite testing by us, it is possible that errors may occur in our software. If we detect any errors before we introduce a solution, we might have to delay deployment for an extended period of time while we address the problem. If we do not discover software errors that affect our new or current solutions or enhancements until after they are deployed, we would need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. Errors in our software could result in:. <U+0095>   harm to our reputation;. <U+0095>   lost sales;. <U+0095>   delays in commercial releases;. <U+0095>   product liability claims;. <U+0095>   delays in or loss of market acceptance of our solutions;. <U+0095>   license terminations or renegotiations;. <U+0095>   unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors; and. <U+0095>   privacy and security vulnerabilities.. Furthermore, our customers might use our software together with products from other companies or those that they have developed internally. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our solution development efforts; impact our reputation and cause significant customer relations problems.. 40. Table of Contents. We cannot be certain of the future effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting or the impact of the same on our operations or the market price for our common stock.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Section 404\"), we are required to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We have dedicated a significant amount of time and resources to ensure compliance with this legislation for the year ended December 31, 2017 and will continue to do so for future fiscal periods. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we cannot be certain that future material changes to our internal controls over financial reporting will be effective. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock.. An inability to meet the requirements of Section 404 could adversely affect investor confidence and, as a result, our stock price.. We are required to comply with the requirements of Section 404. Although we have implemented procedures to comply with the requirements of Section 404, there is no assurance that we will continue to meet the requirements. Failure to meet the ongoing requirements of Section 404, our inability to comply with Section 404's requirements, and the costs of ongoing compliance could have a material adverse effect on investor confidence and our stock price.. Our future prospects depend on our ability to retain current key employees and attract additional qualified personnel.. Our success depends in large part on the continued service of our executive officers and other key employees. We may not be able to retain the services of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of executive officers or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us.. In addition, in order to support our continued growth, we will be required to effectively recruit, develop and retain additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain additional necessary personnel, it could delay or hinder our plans for growth. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. The failure to retain and attract necessary personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our international operations expose us to various risks, any number of which could harm our business.. Our revenue from sales outside of the United States represented approximately 14% of our revenue for 2017. We are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business across national boundaries, any one of which could adversely impact our business. In addition to currency fluctuations, these risks include, among other things: economic downturns; changes in or interpretations of local law, governmental policy or regulation; restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of the country; varying tax systems; and government protectionism. One or more of the foregoing factors could impair our current or future operations and, as a result, harm our overall business.. 41. Table of Contents. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be volatile, which could reduce the market price of our common stock.. The publicly traded shares of our common stock have experienced, and may experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility could reduce the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could change significantly in response to actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, announcements by us or our competitors, factors affecting the medical imaging industry generally, changes in national or regional economic conditions, changes in securities analysts' estimates for us or our competitors' or industry's future performance or general market conditions, making it more difficult for shares of our common stock to be sold at a favorable price or at all. The market price of our common stock could also be reduced by general market price declines or market volatility in the future or future declines or volatility in the prices of stocks for companies in our industry.. A substantial number of shares of our common stock are eligible for future sale, and the sale of shares of common stock into the market, or the perception that such sales may occur, may depress our stock price.. Sales of substantial additional shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, may significantly lower the market price of our common stock. We are unable to estimate the amount, timing or nature of future sales of shares of our common stock. We have previously issued a substantial number of shares of common stock, which are eligible for resale under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and may become freely tradable. We have also registered shares that are issuable upon the exercise of options and warrants. If holders of options or warrants choose to exercise their securities and sell shares of common stock issued upon the exercise in the public market, or if holders of currently restricted common stock choose to sell such shares of common stock in the public market under Rule 144 or otherwise, or attempt to publicly sell such shares all at once or in a short time period, the prevailing market price for our common stock may decline.. Future issuances of shares of our common stock may cause significant dilution of equity interests of existing holders of common stock and decrease the market price of shares of our common stock.. We have previously issued options that are exercisable into a significant number of shares of our common stock. Should existing holders of options exercise their securities into shares of our common stock, it may cause significant dilution of equity interests of existing holders of our common stock and reduce the market price of shares of our common stock.. 42. Table of Contents. Provisions in our corporate charter and in Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover and adversely affect existing stockholders.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the Board of Directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our Board of Directors, without further action by stockholders, and may include, among other things, voting rights (including the right to vote as a series on particular matters), preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights, and sinking fund provisions. Although there are currently no shares of preferred stock outstanding, future holders of preferred stock may have rights superior to our common stock and such rights could also be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to a third party.. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could prevent us from engaging in a \"business combination\" with a 15% or greater stockholder\" for a period of three years from the date such person acquired that status unless appropriate board or stockholder approvals are obtained.. These provisions could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests.. Changes in credit markets or to our credit rating could impact our ability to obtain financing for business operations or result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.. Our credit ratings reflect each credit rating agency's then opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. We utilize the short- and long-term debt markets to obtain capital from time to time. Adverse changes in our credit ratings may result in increased borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term borrowing facilities and may limit financing options, including access to the unsecured borrowing market. We may also be subject to additional restrictive covenants that would reduce flexibility. Macroeconomic conditions, such as continued or increased volatility or disruption in the credit markets, may adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or to fund new acquisitions.. Our existing and future debt obligations could impair our liquidity and financial condition, and in the event we are unable to meet our debt obligations the lenders could foreclose on our assets.. In connection with our Loan and Security Agreement entered into on August 7, 2017, as amended by that certain First Loan Modification Agreement entered into on March 22, 2018 (the \"Loan Agreement\"), Silicon Valley Bank agreed to provide $13 million in financing to the Company, with Silicon Valley Bank making revolving loans to the Company in the principal amount of up to $4 million and providing a term loan facility up to $9 million to be drawn in two tranches. Our debt obligations:. <U+0095>   Could impair our liquidity;. <U+0095>   Could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our other obligations;. <U+0095>   Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our debt obligations, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate requirements;. 43. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   Impose restrictions on our ability to incur indebtedness, other than permitted indebtedness, and could impede us from obtaining additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, mergers, acquisitions and general corporate purposes;. <U+0095>   Impose restrictions on us with respect to the use of our available cash, including in connection with future acquisitions;. <U+0095>   Require us to maintain net revenues ranging from $10.25 million to $14.0 million for each calendar quarter ended until December 31, 2017 and maintain minimum Detection revenues ranging from $8.622 million to $9.517 million for each calendar quarter ended until December 31, 2018;. <U+0095>   Require us to maintain adjusted EBITDA ranging from negative $4.5 million to $1.00 as of the last day of each calendar quarter until December 31, 2018;. <U+0095>   Require us to agree with Silicon Valley Bank and provide all necessary financial information in connection with minimum detection revenue levels for the periods following December 31, 2018 by a defined date or the indebtedness under the Loan Agreement shall be accelerated to April 30 of the applicable following year;. <U+0095>   Make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business prospects and could limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our licensing markets;. <U+0095>   Could result in a prepayment premium if we elected to prepay the indebtedness under the Loan Agreement prior to the maturity date; and. <U+0095>   Could place us at a competitive disadvantage when compared to our competitors who have less debt.. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to secure our obligations under the Loan Agreement, excluding any intellectual property. In the event that we were to fail in the future to make any required payment under the Loan Agreement or fail to comply with the financial and operating covenants contained in the Loan Agreement, in some cases subject to applicable cure periods, we would be in default regarding the indebtedness. A debt default would enable the lenders to foreclose on the assets securing such debt and could significantly diminish the market value and marketability of our common stock and could result in the acceleration of the payment obligations under our indebtedness."
