[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. IDACORP and Idaho Power operate in a highly regulated industry and business environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond the companies' control. The circumstances and factors set forth below may have a material impact on the business, financial condition, or results of operations of IDACORP and Idaho Power and could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements. These risk factors, as well as other information in this report, including without limitation, in Part II - Item 7 - \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Matters Impacting Future Results\" in this report, and information in other reports the companies file with the SEC, should be considered carefully when making any investment decisions relating to IDACORP or Idaho Power.. State or federal regulators may not approve customer rates that provide timely or sufficient recovery of Idaho Power's costs or allow Idaho Power to earn a reasonable rate of return, which could cause IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected.. The prices that the IPUC and OPUC authorize Idaho Power to charge customers for its retail services, and the tariff rate that the FERC permits Idaho Power to charge for its transmission services, are generally the most significant factors influencing. 19. Table of Contents. IDACORP's and Idaho Power's business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. Idaho Power's ability to recover its costs and earn a reasonable rate of return can be affected by many regulatory factors, including the timing difference between when costs are incurred and when those costs are recovered in customers' rates (often called \"regulatory lag\" in the utility industry), and differences between the costs embedded in rates and the amount of actual costs incurred. Idaho Power is often required to incur costs before the IPUC, OPUC, or FERC approves the recovery of those costs, such as construction costs for new facilities or power lines, the costs of compliance with legislative and regulatory requirements and the costs of damage from natural disasters. The IPUC, OPUC, and FERC may not allow Idaho Power to recover some or all of those costs on the basis that Idaho Power did not reasonably or prudently incur those costs or for other reasons. While rate regulation is premised on the assumption that rates established are fair, just, and reasonable, regulators have considerable discretion in applying this standard. Decisions are subject to judicial appeal, which could lead to further uncertainty in regulatory proceedings. In response to economic, political, legislative, public policy, and regulatory pressures, Idaho Power may be subject to rate increase moratoriums, rate reductions or refunds, limits on rate increases, and lower allowed rates of return on investments. The ratemaking process typically involves multiple intervening parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups, and customers, generally with the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The IPUC and OPUC may adopt different methods of calculating the allocation of the total utility costs in their respective jurisdictions, resulting in certain costs excluded in both states. In a number of proceedings in recent years, Idaho Power has been denied recovery, or required to defer recovery pending the next general rate case, including denials or deferrals related to capital expenditures for long-term projects expenses. Adverse outcomes in regulatory proceedings or significant regulatory lag may cause Idaho Power to record an impairment of its assets or otherwise adversely affect cash flows and earnings and result in lower credit ratings, reduced access to capital and higher financing costs, and reductions or delays in planned capital expenditures.. For additional information relating to Idaho Power's state and federal regulatory framework and regulatory matters, see Part I - Item 1 - \"Business - Utility Operations,\" Note 3 - \"Regulatory Matters\" to the consolidated financial statements included in this report, and Part II - Item 7 - \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Matters\" in this report.. Idaho Power's cost recovery mechanisms may not function as intended and are subject to change, which may adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. Idaho Power has power cost adjustment mechanisms in its Idaho and Oregon jurisdictions and a fixed cost adjustment mechanism in Idaho. The power cost adjustment mechanisms track Idaho Power's actual net power supply costs (primarily fuel and purchased power less off-system sales) and compare these amounts to net power supply costs being recovered in retail rates. A majority of the difference between these two amounts is deferred for future recovery from, or refund to, customers through rates. Volatility in power supply costs continues to be significant, in large part due to fluctuations in hydroelectric generation conditions and high costs for the purchase of renewable energy under mandatory long-term contracts. While the power cost adjustment mechanisms function to mitigate the potentially adverse impact on net income of power supply cost volatility, the mechanisms do not eliminate the cash flow impact of that volatility. When power costs rise above the level recovered in current retail rates, Idaho Power incurs the costs but recovery of those costs is deferred to a subsequent collection period, which can adversely affect Idaho Power's operating cash flow and liquidity until those costs are recovered from customers. The fixed cost adjustment mechanism is a decoupling mechanism designed to remove Idaho Power's disincentive to invest in energy efficiency activities by allowing Idaho Power to charge residential and small commercial customers when it recovers less than the base level of fixed costs per customer that the IPUC authorized for recovery in the most recent general rate case. The power cost and fixed cost adjustment mechanisms are generally subject to change at the discretion of applicable state regulators, who could decide to modify or eliminate either mechanism in a manner that adversely impacts IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations.. IDACORP's and Idaho Power's business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected by changes in customer growth or customer usage. Growth in the number of customers and customers' use of electricity are affected by a number of factors, such as population growth or decline in Idaho Power's service area, expansion or loss of service area, changes in customer needs and expectations, adoption rates of energy efficiency measures, customer-generated power such as from rooftop solar panels, demand-side management requirements, regulation or deregulation, and adverse economic conditions. An economic downturn or recession could also negatively impact customer use and reduce revenues and cash flows, thus adversely affecting results of operations. Many electric utilities, including Idaho Power, have experienced a decline in usage per customer, in part attributable to energy efficiency activities. State or federal regulations may be enacted to encourage or require mandatory energy conservation or technological advances that increase energy efficiency, which could further reduce usage per customer. Also, changing customer needs and expectations could lead to lower customer satisfaction, reduced loyalty, difficulty in obtaining rate increases, and customers seeking alternative sources of energy and the unbundling of regulated electric service. If customers choose to generate their own energy, discontinue a portion or all service from Idaho Power, or replace electric power for heating with natural gas, demand for Idaho Power's energy may decline and adversely impact the. 20. Table of Contents. affordability of its services for remaining customers. While Idaho Power has recently experienced a net growth in usage due to an increase in the number of customers, when adjusted for the impacts of weather, the average monthly usage on a per customer basis for Idaho residential customers has declined from 1,051 kWh in 2009 to 952 kWh in 2017. Rate mechanisms, such as the Idaho fixed cost adjustment, are designed to address the financial disincentive associated with promoting energy efficiency activities, but there is no assurance that the mechanism will result in full or timely collection of Idaho Power's fixed costs, which are currently collected in large part through the company's volume-based energy rates that are based on historical sales volume. Any undercollection of fixed costs would adversely impact revenues, earnings, and cash flows. The formation of municipal utilities or similar entities for distribution systems within Idaho Power's service area could also result in a load decrease. The loss of loads resulting from some of these events may result in IDACORP and Idaho Power modifying or eliminating large generation or transmission projects. This could in turn result in reduced revenues as well as write-downs or write-offs if regulators determine that the costs of the projects were incurred imprudently, which could have a material adverse impact on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Conversely, if Idaho Power were to experience an unanticipated increase in the demand for energy through, for example, the rapid addition of new industrial and commercial customers or population growth in the service area, Idaho Power may be required to rely on higher-cost purchased power to meet peak system demand and may need to accelerate investment in additional generation or transmission resources. If the incremental costs associated with the unanticipated changes in loads exceed the incremental revenue received from the sales to the new customers, and Idaho Power is unable to secure timely and full rate relief to recover those increased costs, the resulting imbalance could have an adverse effect on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. IDACORP's and Idaho Power's operating results fluctuate seasonally and can be adversely affected by changes in weather conditions and severe weather. Idaho Power's electric power sales are seasonal, with demand in Idaho Power's service area peaking during the hot summer months, with a secondary peak during the cold winter months. Electric power demands by irrigation customers in Idaho Power's service area, which are impacted by temperatures and the timing and amount of precipitation, can also create significant seasonal changes in usage. Seasonality of revenues may be further impacted by Idaho Power's tiered rate structure, under which rates charged to customers are often higher during higher-load periods, such as hot summers and cold winters. Market prices for power also often increase significantly during these peak periods, at times when Idaho Power is required to purchase power in the wholesale markets to meet customer demand. By contrast, when temperatures are relatively mild or where precipitation supplants irrigation systems, loads are often lower as customers are not using electricity for heating and air conditioning or irrigation purposes. Thus, weather conditions and the timing and extent of precipitation can cause IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition to fluctuate seasonally, quarterly, and from year to year.. Changes in climate in Idaho Power's service area could also have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, heat waves, fires, floods, snow loading, and other extreme weather events. These extreme weather events and their associated impacts can damage transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, causing service interruptions and extended outages, increasing supply chain costs and other operating and maintenance expenses, and limiting Idaho Power's ability to meet customer energy demand. Sustained drought conditions or decreased snow pack due to higher temperatures are likely to decrease power generation from hydroelectric plants. Variations in hydroelectric generation that increase Idaho Power's reliance on market purchases may lead to more costly power supply sources for its customers and reduce benefits from selling surplus hydroelectric power in the wholesale market. The price of power in the wholesale energy markets tends to be higher during periods of high regional demand that tends to occur with weather extremes, which may cause Idaho Power to purchase power in the wholesale market during peak price periods, increasing power supply costs. The costs of repair and replacing infrastructure or liability for personal injury or property damage from utility equipment that fails from significant weather and weather-related events may not be covered in full by insurance. Costs incurred as a result of such events might also not be recovered through customer rates if the costs incurred are greater than those allowed for recovery by regulators.. New advances in power generation, energy efficiency, or other technologies that impact the power utility industry could decrease revenues. The increasing cost of energy in the electric utility industry has encouraged the development of new technologies for power generation, power storage, and energy efficiency. In particular, in recent years the cost of solar generation has decreased significantly, and there are federal and state regulations, laws and other incentives in place to help further reduce the cost of solar generation. There is potential that customer-owned power generation systems, particularly if coupled with power storage devices, could become sufficiently cost-effective and efficient that an increasing number of Idaho Power's customers choose to install such systems on their homes or businesses, which in turn could require changes in the way Idaho Power manages its distribution systems. Additionally, considerable emphasis has been placed on energy efficiency, such as LED lighting and high-efficiency appliances. Energy efficiency programs, including programs sponsored by Idaho Power. 21. Table of Contents. under a directive from state regulatory commissions, are designed to reduce energy demand. If Idaho Power is unable to adjust its rate design or maintain adequate regulatory mechanisms allowing for timely cost recovery, declining usage from customer-owned generation sources and energy efficiency would result in under-recovery of Idaho Power's costs and investment in infrastructure, and reduce revenues, which would impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations.. Capital expenditures for infrastructure, risks associated with permitting and construction of that infrastructure, and the timing and availability of cost recovery for the expenditures, can significantly affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. Idaho Power's business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation, transmission, and distribution infrastructure. A significant portion of Idaho Power's facilities were constructed many years ago, and thus require periodic upgrades and frequent maintenance. Also, long-term anticipated increases in both the number of customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of that infrastructure. For instance, Idaho Power is in the permitting process for two 500-kV transmission line projects, which are intended to help meet future customer energy demands. Construction projects are subject to usual permitting and construction risks that can adversely affect project costs and the completion time. These risks include, as examples:. • the ability to timely obtain labor or materials at reasonable costs;. • defaults by contractors;. • equipment, engineering, and design failures;. • unexpected environmental and geological problems;. • the effects of adverse weather conditions;. • availability of financing;. • load forecasts;. • the ability to obtain and comply with permits and land use rights, and environmental constraints; and. • delays and costs associated with disputes and litigation with third parties.. The occurrence of any of these risks could cause Idaho Power to operate at reduced capacity levels, which in turn could reduce revenues, increase expenses, or cause Idaho Power to incur penalties. If Idaho Power is unable or unwilling to complete the permitting or construction of a project, or incurs costs that regulators do not deem prudent, it may be unable to recover its costs in full through rates or on a timely basis. Further, if Idaho Power is unable to secure permits or joint funding commitments to develop transmission infrastructure necessary to serve loads or if other resources become more economical, it may terminate those projects and, as alternatives, seek to develop additional generation facilities within areas where Idaho Power has available transmission capacity or pursue other more costly options to serve loads. To limit the timing-related risks of these projects, Idaho Power may enter into purchase orders and construction contracts and incur engineering and design service costs in advance of receiving necessary regulatory approvals or permits. If any of the projects are canceled for any reason, including Idaho Power's failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals or permits or because the project is no longer economical, Idaho Power could incur significant cancellation penalties under purchase orders or construction contracts. Additionally, termination of a project carries with it the potential for impairment of the associated asset if regulators deny full recovery of project costs. Thus, termination of a project could negatively affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in legislation, regulation, and government policy may have a material adverse effect on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's business in the future. Changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, federal, state, and local legislation, regulation, and government policy could significantly impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's businesses and the electric utility industry. Specific legislative and regulatory proposals and recently enacted legislation that could have a material impact on IDACORP and Idaho Power include, but are not limited to, tax reform, infrastructure renewal programs, and modifications to public company reporting requirements and environmental regulation. Further, the proposals and new legislation could have an impact on the rate of growth of Idaho Power's customers and their willingness to expand operations and increase electric service requirements. IDACORP and Idaho Power are monitoring the implementation by federal, state, and local governmental authorities of various executive orders and are unable to predict whether and to what extent such actions will meaningfully change existing legislative and regulatory environments relevant to the companies, or if any such changes would have a net positive or negative impact on the companies. To the extent that such changes have a negative impact on the companies or Idaho Power's customers, including as a result of related uncertainty, these changes may materially and adversely impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Changes in income tax laws and regulations, or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable laws by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or other taxing jurisdictions, could have a material adverse impact on IDACORP's or Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. IDACORP and Idaho Power must make judgments and interpretations. 22. Table of Contents. about the application of the law when determining the provision for income taxes. Amounts of income tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions, and tax credits, which are subject to challenge by taxing authorities. In recent years, state regulatory mechanisms with income tax-related provisions (such as Idaho Power's October 2014 regulatory settlement stipulation with the IPUC), has significantly impacted IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations. The outcome of ongoing and future income tax proceedings, or the state public utility commissions' treatment of those outcomes, could differ materially from the amounts IDACORP and Idaho Power record prior to conclusion of those proceedings, and the difference could negatively affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's earnings and cash flows. Further, in some instances the treatment from a ratemaking perspective of any net income tax expense or benefit could be different than IDACORP or Idaho Power anticipate or request from applicable state regulatory commissions, which could have a negative effect on their financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Idaho Power uses the regulatory flow-through income tax accounting method as described in Note 1 - \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies\" to the consolidated financial statements included in this report, and potential changes in income tax laws or interpretations may impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's income taxes and reporting obligations differently than most other companies.. Due to the enactment of the tax reform act generally referred to as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\", which lowered the corporate federal income tax rate, IDACORP and Idaho Power expect the changes in income tax law to reduce annual income tax expense for both companies beginning in 2018. However, due to Idaho Power's use of flow-through income tax accounting which has historically reduced income tax expense and contributed to lower electricity rates for customers, the changes in federal income tax law may not reduce IDACORP's and Idaho Power's income tax expense as significantly as the income tax expense of some peers in the utility industry who use fully normalized income tax accounting or non-utility companies. The IPUC has ordered Idaho Power to record a regulatory liability for the estimated Idaho-jurisdictional share of financial benefits after January 1, 2018, from the changes in federal income tax law, and to file a report with the IPUC identifying and quantifying the income tax changes along with proposed tariff schedule changes. Idaho Power also filed an application with the OPUC requesting authority to defer for later ratemaking treatment the Oregon jurisdictional earnings in excess of the currently authorized Oregon jurisdictional rate of return on equity that may result from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act as measured from the Company's annual Oregon Results of Operations. The OPUC Staff filed an application with the OPUC requesting authority to defer for later ratemaking treatment the difference between Idaho Power's current retail rates and its current retail rates inclusive of the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Idaho Power is working with the IPUC and OPUC to determine how potential income tax expense reductions from the changes in federal income tax law may benefit Idaho Power customers and affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations.. IDACORP's and Idaho Power's businesses are subject to an extensive set of environmental laws, rules, and regulations, which could impact their operations and costs of operations, potentially rendering some generating units uneconomical to maintain or operate, and could increase the costs and alter the timing of major projects. IDACORP's and Idaho Power's operations are subject to a number of federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules, and regulations relating to air and water quality, natural resources, renewable energy, and health and safety. Many of these laws and regulations are described in Part II - Item 7 - \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters\" in this report. These laws and regulations generally require IDACORP and Idaho Power to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals, including through substantial investment in pollution controls, and may be enforced by both public officials and private individuals. Some of these regulations are pending, changing, or subject to interpretation, and failure to comply may result in penalties, mandatory operational changes, and other adverse consequences, including costs associated with defending against claims by governmental authorities or private parties and complying with new operating requirements. Idaho Power devotes significant resources to environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, and mitigation projects to comply with existing and anticipated environmental regulations. However, it is possible that federal, state and local authorities could attempt to enforce more stringent standards, stricter regulation, and more expansive application of environmental regulations.. Environmental regulations have created the need for Idaho Power to install new pollution control equipment at, and may cause Idaho Power to perform environmental remediation on, its owned and co-owned power generation facilities, often at a substantial cost. Compliance with environmental regulations can significantly increase capital spending, operating costs and plant outages, and can negatively affect the affordability of Idaho Power's services for customers. Idaho Power cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures necessary to comply with, or as a result of liabilities under, these environmental laws and regulations, although Idaho Power expects the expenditures will be substantial. In some cases, the costs to obtain permits and ensure facilities are in compliance may be prohibitively expensive. If the costs of compliance with new regulations renders the generating facilities uneconomical to maintain or operate, Idaho Power would need to identify alternative resources for power, potentially in the form of new generation and transmission facilities, market power purchases, demand-side management programs, or a combination of these and other methods. Furthermore, Idaho Power may not be able. 23. Table of Contents. to obtain or maintain all environmental regulatory approvals necessary for operation of its existing infrastructure or construction of new infrastructure.. The current presidential administration has issued a number of executive orders related to environmental matters designed to ease environmental regulation that the federal agencies are still implementing. However, the outcome of the Environmental Protection Agency's and other federal agencies' review of regulations covered by the executive orders is difficult to predict. Moreover, the executive orders and any resulting federal regulations could be affected by Congressional action and challenged in court. Further, state and local governmental authorities could choose to replace the federal regulations or bolster environmental compliance and enforcement efforts at the local level. Accordingly, Idaho Power may not realize any benefit from changes to federal environmental regulations, if any, resulting from the executive orders and, as of the date of this report, cannot predict whether and to what extent the orders could affect its operations and environmental-related expenditures. Idaho Power is not guaranteed timely or full recovery through customer rates of costs associated with environmental regulations, environmental compliance, and clean-up of contamination, and regulators may not grant prior approval of cost recovery. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval or if Idaho Power fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, construction and/or operation of Idaho Power's generation or transmission facilities could be delayed, halted, or subjected to additional costs.. In addition, some environmental regulations are currently subject to litigation and not yet final. As a result of this uncertainty, strategies to comply with the regulations, including available control technologies or other allowed compliance measures, are unpredictable and Idaho Power cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts these regulations would have on Idaho Power's operations or financial condition.. Factors contributing to lower hydroelectric generation can increase costs and negatively impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. Idaho Power derives a significant portion of its power supply from its hydroelectric facilities. During 2017, 65 percent of Idaho Power's electric power generation was from hydroelectric facilities. Due to Idaho Power's heavy reliance on hydroelectric generation, factors such as precipitation and snowpack, the timing of run-off, and the availability of water in the Snake River basin can significantly affect its operations. The combination of a long-term trend of declining Snake River base flows, over-appropriation of water, and periods of drought have led to water rights disputes and proceedings among surface water and ground water irrigators and the State of Idaho. Recharging the Eastern Snake Plain aquifer by diverting surface water to porous locations and permitting it to sink into the aquifer is one approach to the over-appropriation dispute. Diversions from the Snake River for aquifer recharge or the loss of water rights reduce Snake River flows available for hydroelectric generation. When hydroelectric generation is reduced, Idaho Power must increase its use of more expensive thermal generating resources and market power purchases; therefore, costs increase and opportunities for off-system sales are reduced, reducing revenues and potentially earnings. Through its power cost adjustment mechanisms, Idaho Power expects to recover most (but not all) of the increase in net power supply costs caused by lower hydroelectric generation. The timing of recovery of the increased costs, however, may not occur until the subsequent power cost adjustment year, adversely affecting cash flows and liquidity.. Obligations imposed in connection with hydroelectric license renewals may require large capital expenditures, increase operating costs, reduce hydroelectric generation, and negatively affect IDACORP's or Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition. For the last several years, Idaho Power has been engaged in an effort to renew its federal license for its largest hydroelectric generation source, the Hells Canyon Complex. Relicensing includes an extensive public review process that involves numerous natural resource issues and environmental conditions. The existence of endangered and threatened species in the watershed may result in major operational changes to the region's hydroelectric projects, which may be reflected in hydroelectric licenses, including for the Hells Canyon Complex. In addition, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to hydroelectric facilities, which could further increase required expenditures for marine life recovery and endangered species protection and reduce the amount of hydroelectric generation available to meet Idaho Power's generation requirements. One significant issue identified in connection with the Hells Canyon Complex relicensing effort involves water temperature gradients in the Snake River below the Hells Canyon dam. Certain parties in the relicensing proceedings have advocated for the installation of a water temperature management apparatus which, if required to be installed, would involve substantial costs to construct, operate, and maintain. Idaho Power may be unable to recover in full or in a timely manner the costs of such an apparatus through rates, particularly given the magnitude of any potential impact on customer rates. Another significant issue related to the relicensing effort involves a dispute between the states of Idaho and Oregon regarding whether to reintroduce or establish spawning populations of fish species into Idaho waters. Idaho Power cannot predict whether and how Idaho and Oregon will negotiate a mutually agreeable approach or whether legal or regulatory action will ultimately be necessary for such resolution, nor can Idaho Power predict the outcome of any such proceedings. Idaho Power also cannot predict the requirements that might be imposed during the relicensing process, the financial impact of those requirements, whether a new multi-year license will ultimately be issued, and whether the IPUC or. 24. Table of Contents. OPUC will allow recovery through rates of the substantial costs incurred in connection with the licensing process and subsequent compliance. Imposition of onerous conditions in the relicensing process could result in Idaho Power incurring significant capital expenditures, increase operating costs (including power purchase costs), and reduce hydroelectric generation, which could negatively affect results of operations and financial condition.. Idaho Power's use of coal and natural gas to fuel power generation facilities exposes it to commodity availability and price risk, which can adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition. As part of its normal business operations, Idaho Power purchases coal and natural gas in the open market or under short-term or long-term contracts, often with variable pricing terms. Market prices for coal and natural gas are volatile and influenced by factors impacting supply and demand such as weather conditions, fuel transportation availability, economic conditions, and changes in technology. Natural gas transportation to Idaho Power's three natural gas plants is limited to one primary pipeline, presenting a heightened possibility of supply constraint and disruptions separate from the risk of counterparty default. Most of Idaho Power's coal supply arrangements are under long-term contracts for coal originating in Wyoming, and thus Idaho Power is exposed to risk of disruption of coal production in, or transportation from, that region. Idaho Power may from time to time enter into new, or renegotiate, these long-term contracts but can provide no assurance that such contracts will be negotiated or renegotiated on satisfactory terms, or at all. There also can be no assurance that counterparties to the natural gas or coal supply agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply natural gas or coal, and they may experience financial or technical problems or unforeseeable events that inhibit their ability to deliver natural gas or coal. Defaults by coal and natural gas suppliers may cause Idaho Power to seek alternative, and potentially more costly, sources of fuel or rely on other generation sources or wholesale market power purchases. Idaho Power may not be able to fully or timely recover these increased costs through rates, which may adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations.. If the assumptions underlying coal mine reclamation at Bridger Coal Company and related forecast trust fund growth are materially inaccurate, Idaho Power's costs could be greater than anticipated or be incurred sooner than anticipated. Bridger Coal Company, a subsidiary of Idaho Power, uses both surface and underground methods to mine coal to be used for power generation at the Jim Bridger power plant. The federal Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act and state laws and regulations establish operational, reclamation, bonding, and closure obligations and standards for mining of coal. Bridger Coal Company's estimate of reclamation liability and bonding obligations is reviewed periodically by Idaho Power's management committee and by government regulators. Idaho Power funds a trust to cover such projected mine reclamation costs. The trust funds are invested in debt and equity securities and poor performance of these investments would reduce the amount of funds available for their intended purpose, which could require Idaho Power to make additional cash contributions. If actual costs related to those obligations exceed estimates, government regulations relating to those obligations change significantly or unexpected cash funding obligations are required, IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Idaho Power's generation, transmission, and distribution facilities are subject to numerous operational risks unique to it and its industry. Operating risks associated with Idaho Power's generation, transmission, and distribution facilities include equipment failures, volatility in fuel and transportation pricing, interruptions in fuel supplies, increased regulatory compliance costs, labor disputes, accidents and workforce safety matters, release of hazardous or toxic substances into the air, water, or ground, wildfires, acts of terrorism or sabotage, the loss of cost-effective disposal options for solid waste such as coal ash, operator error, and the occurrence of catastrophic events at the facilities. Diminished availability or performance of those facilities could result in reduced customer satisfaction, reputational harm, liability to third parties, and regulatory inquiries and fines. Operation of Idaho Power's owned and co-owned generating stations below expected capacity levels, or unplanned outages at these stations, could cause reduced energy output and lower efficiency levels and result in lost revenues and increased expenses for alternative fuels or wholesale market power purchases. Further, the transmission system in Idaho Power's service area is constrained, limiting the ability to transmit electric energy within the service area and access electric energy from outside the service area during high-load periods. Idaho Power's transmission facilities are also interconnected with those of third parties, and thus operation of Idaho Power's and third parties' facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events. These transmission constraints and events could result in failure to provide reliable service to customers and the inability to deliver energy from generating facilities to the power grid, and the inability to access lower cost sources of electric energy.. Accidents, electrical contacts, fires, explosions, catastrophic failures, general system damage or dysfunction, uncontrolled release of water from hydroelectric dams, and other unplanned events related to Idaho Power's infrastructure would increase repair costs and may expose Idaho Power to liability for personal injury and property damage. Fires alleged to have been caused by Idaho Power's transmission, distribution, or generation infrastructure could also expose Idaho Power to claims for fire suppression costs and liability for personal injury or property damage, whether based on claims of negligence, trespass or otherwise. Idaho Power maintains insurance coverage for such operating and event risks, but insurance coverage is subject to. 25. Table of Contents. the terms and limitations of the available policies and may not be sufficient to cover Idaho Power's ultimate liability. If the amount of insurance is insufficient or otherwise unavailable, or if Idaho Power is unable to recover in rates the costs of any uninsured losses, IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially affected.. Volatility or disruptions in the financial markets, failure of IDACORP or Idaho Power to satisfy conditions necessary for obtaining loans or issuing debt securities, and denial of regulatory authority to issue debt or equity securities may negatively affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's ability to access capital and/or increase their cost of borrowing, and ability to execute on their strategic plans. IDACORP and Idaho Power use credit facilities, commercial paper markets, and long-term debt as significant sources of liquidity and funding for operating and capital requirements and debt maturities not satisfied by operating cash flow. The credit facilities represent commitments by the participating banks to make loans and issue letters of credit. However, the ability and obligation of the participating banks to make those loans and issue letters of credit is subject to specified conditions and volatility or disruptions in the financial markets could affect the companies' ability to obtain debt financing or draw upon or renew existing credit facilities. Idaho Power's ability to issue long-term debt is also subject to a number of conditions included in an indenture, and Idaho Power's ability to issue long-term debt and commercial paper is subject to the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the securities under reasonable terms or at all. Because of these limitations, IDACORP and Idaho Power may be unable to issue commercial paper or short-term or long-term debt at reasonable interest rates and terms or at all. Also, while the credit facilities represent a contractual obligation to make loans, one or more of the participating banks may default on their obligations to make loans under, or may withdraw from, the credit facilities.. Idaho Power is required to obtain regulatory approval in Idaho, Oregon, and Wyoming in order to borrow money or to issue securities and is therefore dependent on the public utility commissions of those states to issue favorable orders in a timely manner to permit them to finance their operations, capital expenditures, and debt maturities. IDACORP's and Idaho Power's credit facilities include financial covenants that limit the amount of debt that can be outstanding as a percentage of total capital, and Idaho Power's long-term debt has also been issued under an indenture that contains a number of financial covenants. The companies must also make specified representations in connection with request for loans and it is possible that they may be unable to do so at the time of such request, which would limit or eliminate the obligation of the banks to provide loans. Failure to maintain these representations and covenants could preclude IDACORP and Idaho Power from issuing commercial paper, borrowing under their credit facilities, or issuing long-term debt, and could trigger a default and repayment obligation under debt instruments, which could limit their ability to pursue certain projects and adversely impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. A downgrade in IDACORP's and Idaho Power's credit ratings could affect the companies' ability to access capital, increase their cost of borrowing, and require the companies to post collateral with transaction counterparties. Credit rating agencies periodically review the corporate credit ratings and long-term ratings of IDACORP and Idaho Power. These ratings are premised on financial ratios and performance, the regulatory environment and rate mechanisms, the effectiveness of management, resource risks and power supply costs, and other factors. IDACORP and Idaho Power also have borrowing arrangements that rely on the ability of the banks to fund loans or support commercial paper, a principal source of short-term financing. Downgrades of IDACORP's or Idaho Power's credit ratings, or those affecting relationship banks, could limit the companies' ability to access short- and long-term capital under reasonable terms or at all, reduce the pool of potential lenders, increase borrowing costs under existing credit facilities, limit access to the commercial paper market, require the companies to pay a higher interest rate on their debt, and require the companies to post additional performance assurance collateral with transaction counterparties. If access to capital were to become significantly constrained or costs of capital increased significantly due to lowered credit ratings, prevailing industry conditions, regulatory constraints, the volatility of the capital markets or other factors, IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Idaho Power's risk management policy and programs relating to economically hedging commodity exposures and credit risk may not always perform as intended, and as a result, IDACORP and Idaho Power may suffer economic losses. Idaho Power enters into transactions to hedge its positions in coal, natural gas, power, and other commodities, and enters into financial hedge transactions to mitigate in part exposure to variable commodity prices. IDACORP and Idaho Power could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. The derivative instruments used for hedging might not offset the underlying exposure being mitigated as intended, due to pricing inefficiencies or other terms of the derivative instruments, and any such failure to mitigate exposure could result in financial losses. Certain of Idaho Power's hedging and derivative agreements may result in the receipt of, or posting of, collateral with counterparties. Fluctuations in commodity prices that lead to the posting of collateral with counterparties negatively impact liquidity, and downgrades in Idaho Power's credit ratings may lead to additional collateral posting requirements. Further, forecasts of future fuel needs and loads and available resources to meet those loads are inherently uncertain and may cause Idaho Power to over-. 26. Table of Contents. or under-hedge actual resource needs, exposing the company to market risk on the over- or under-hedged position. To the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, Idaho Power may not be able to execute its risk management strategies, which could result in undesired over-exposure to unhedged positions. As a result, risk management actions, or the failure or inability to manage commodity price and counterparty risk, may adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations.. Idaho Power could be subject to penalties and operational changes if it violates mandatory reliability and security requirements, which could adversely impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition. As an owner and operator of a bulk power transmission system, Idaho Power is subject to mandatory reliability and security standards issued by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and enforced by the FERC. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and are guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with reliability standards subjects Idaho Power to higher operating costs and increased capital expenditures. Idaho Power has received in recent years notices of violations from, and regularly self-reports reliability standard compliance issues to, the FERC, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, and the Western Electricity Coordinating Council. Potential monetary and non-monetary penalties for a violation of FERC regulations may be substantial, and in some circumstances monetary penalties may be as high as $1 million per day per violation. The FERC may take action to limit volatility in the energy market by imposing price limits or other market restrictions to control market-based rate sales, which could adversely affect the companies' financial results. The imposition of penalties on Idaho Power for its actual or alleged failure to comply with reliability and security requirements could also have a negative effect on its and IDACORP's results of operations and financial condition.. Federally mandated purchases of power from renewable energy projects, and integration of power generated from those projects into Idaho Power's system, may increase costs and decrease system reliability, and adversely affect Idaho Power's and IDACORP's results of operations and financial condition. An abundance of intermittent, non-dispatchable generation from renewable energy projects interconnected with Idaho Power's system has had an impact on the operation of Idaho Power's generation plants, system reliability, power supply costs, and the wholesale power markets in the Pacific Northwest. Idaho Power is generally obligated under federal law to purchase power from certain renewable energy projects, regardless of the then-current load demand, availability of lower cost generation resources, or wholesale energy market prices. This increases the likelihood and frequency that Idaho Power will be required to reduce output from its lower-cost hydroelectric and fossil fuel-fired generation resources, which in turn increases power purchase costs and customer rates and impacts Idaho Power's ability to invest in additional generation. Increases in customer rates could make self-generation more financially attractive for customers, which could result in reduced net load and shifts in customer costs. Further, balancing load and generation from Idaho Power's power generation portfolio is challenging, and Idaho Power expects that its operational costs will continue to increase as a result of its efforts to integrate intermittent, non-dispatchable generation from a large number of renewable energy projects. If Idaho Power is unable to timely recover those costs through its power cost adjustment mechanisms or otherwise, those increased costs may negatively affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. The performance of pension and postretirement benefit plan investments and other factors impacting plan costs and funding obligations could adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations - primarily cash flows and liquidity. Idaho Power provides a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan covering most employees, as well as a defined benefit postretirement benefit plan (consisting of health care and death benefits) that covers eligible retirees. Costs of providing these benefits are based in part on the value of the plans' assets and, therefore, adverse investment performance for these assets or the failure to maintain sustained growth in pension investments over time could increase Idaho Power's plan costs and funding requirements related to the plans. As benefit costs continue to rise, there is no assurance that the state public utility commissions will continue to allow recovery. The key actuarial assumptions that affect funding obligations are the expected long-term return on plan assets and the discount rate used in determining future benefit obligations. Idaho Power evaluates the actuarial assumptions on an annual basis, taking into account changes in market conditions, trends, and future expectations. Estimates of future equity and debt market performance, changes in interest rates, and other factors Idaho Power and its actuary firms use to develop the actuarial assumptions are inherently uncertain, and actual results could vary significantly from the estimates. Changes in demographics, including timing of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase Idaho Power's plan costs and funding requirements. Future pension funding requirements and the timing of funding payments are also subject to the impacts of changes in legislation. Depending on the timing of contributions to the plans and Idaho Power's ability to recover costs through rates, cash contributions to the plans could reduce the cash available for the companies' businesses and payment of dividends. For additional information regarding Idaho Power's funding obligations under its benefit plans, see Note 11 - \"Benefit Plans\" to the consolidated financial statements included in this report.. 27. Table of Contents. As a holding company, IDACORP does not have its own operating income and must rely on the cash flows from its subsidiaries to pay dividends and make debt payments. IDACORP is a holding company with no significant operations of its own, and its primary assets are shares or other ownership interests of its subsidiaries, primarily Idaho Power. IDACORP's subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to IDACORP, whether through dividends, loans, or other means. The ability of IDACORP's subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to IDACORP depends on several factors, including each subsidiary's actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial condition, regulatory restrictions, tax obligations, covenants contained in credit facilities to which they are parties, and the prior rights of holders of their existing and future first mortgage bonds and other debt or equity securities. Further, the amount and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the board of directors, which may reduce or cease payment of dividends at any time. See Note 6 - \"Common Stock\" to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for a further description of restrictions on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's payment of dividends.. IDACORP's and Idaho Power's activities are concentrated in one industry and in one region, which exposes it to risks from lack of diversification, regional economic conditions, and regional legislation and regulation. IDACORP and Idaho Power do not have diversified operations or sources of revenue. Idaho Power comprises the bulk of IDACORP's operations, and Idaho Power's business is concentrated solely in the electricity industry. Furthermore, Idaho Power's provision of electric service to retail customers is conducted exclusively in its southern Idaho and eastern Oregon service area. As a result, IDACORP's and Idaho Power's future performance will be affected by economic conditions, regulatory and legislative activity, and other events in its service area and in the electric power industry.. The impacts of a retiring workforce with specialized utility-specific functions could increase costs and adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. Idaho Power's operations require a skilled workforce to perform specialized utility functions. Many of these positions, such as linemen, grid operators, engineering and design personnel, and generation plant operators, require extensive, specialized training. Idaho Power has experienced in recent years an above-average number of employee retirements and expects the increased level of retirement of its skilled workforce and persons in key positions will continue in 2018 and in the near-term. At December 31, 2017, approximately 23 percent of Idaho Power's employees were eligible for regular or early retirement under Idaho Power's defined benefit pension plan. This will require Idaho Power to attract, train, and retain new employees to help prevent a loss of institutional knowledge and avoid a skills gap. The loss of skills and institutional knowledge of experienced employees and the failure to hire and the costs associated with attracting, training, and retaining appropriately qualified employees to replace an aging and skilled workforce could have a negative effect on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations.. IDACORP and Idaho Power are subject to costs and other effects of legal and regulatory proceedings, disputes, and claims. From time to time in the normal course of business, IDACORP and Idaho Power are subject to various lawsuits, regulatory proceedings, disputes, and claims that could result in adverse judgments or settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other adverse consequences. These matters are subject to a number of uncertainties, and management is often unable to predict the outcome of such matters; resulting liabilities could exceed amounts currently reserved or insured against with respect to such matter. The legal costs and final resolution of matters in which IDACORP or Idaho Power are involved could have reputational impact and a short- or long-term negative effect on their financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, the terms of resolution could require the companies to change their operational practices and procedures, which could also have a negative effect on their financial positions and results of operations.. Acts or threats of terrorism, cyber attacks, data or physical security breaches, and other acts of individuals or groups seeking to disrupt Idaho Power's operations or the electric power grid could require significant expenditures, or result in claims against the companies, and negatively impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. Idaho Power operates in an industry that requires the continuous use and operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Idaho Power's generation and transmission facilities and its grid operations are potential targets for terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. Some of Idaho Power's facilities are deemed \"critical infrastructure,\" in that incapacity or destruction of the facilities could have a debilitating impact on security, reliability or operability of the bulk electric power system, national economic security, and public health and safety. The possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as generation facilities and electric transmission facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or cyber attack (whether originating internally or externally) may affect Idaho Power's operations by limiting the ability to generate, purchase, or transmit power. Cyber threats and attacks can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across networks, information systems and other technologies. Network, information systems and technology-related events, including those caused by us, such as process breakdowns, security architecture or design vulnerabilities, or by third parties, such as computer hackings, cyber attacks, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing, or power outages, natural disasters, infectious disease. 28. Table of Contents. outbreaks, terrorist attacks or other similar events, could result in a degradation or disruption of the products and services of the companies. These events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues and increase costs to protect, repair, and insure Idaho Power's assets and operate its business.. Federal regulators have stated that a number of organizations continue to seek opportunities to exploit potential vulnerabilities in the U.S. energy infrastructure and that those attacks have become increasingly sophisticated. Attacks on Idaho Power's infrastructure could result from acts of those organizations or other third parties as well as Idaho Power employees or contractors. At the same time, Idaho Power's energy infrastructure is becoming more reliant on network-based infrastructure. Idaho Power's operations require the continuous availability of information technology systems and network infrastructure, and in the normal course of business, Idaho Power collects sensitive and confidential customer and employee information and proprietary information of Idaho Power. Although Idaho Power actively monitors developments in cyber security, no security measures can completely shield Idaho Power's systems, infrastructure, and data from vulnerabilities to cyber attacks, intrusions, or other catastrophic events that could result in their failure or reduced functionality, and ultimately the potential loss of sensitive information or the loss of Idaho Power's ability to fulfill critical business functions and provide reliable electric power to customers. Any security breaches, such as misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in IDACORP's and Idaho Power's information technology systems, including customer data, could result in violations of privacy and other laws, financial loss to Idaho Power or to its customers, customer dissatisfaction, and significant litigation and penalty exposure, all of which could materially affect Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards or rules may impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial results and disclosures. The Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC may make changes to accounting standards that impact presentation and disclosures of financial condition and results of operations. Further, new accounting orders issued by the FERC could significantly impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's reported financial condition. Idaho Power meets conditions under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to reflect the impact of regulatory decisions in its financial statements and to defer certain costs as regulatory assets until those costs are collected in rates, and to defer some items as regulatory liabilities. If recovery of these amounts ceases to be probable, if Idaho Power determines that it no longer meets the criteria for applying regulatory accounting, or if accounting rules change to no longer provide for regulatory assets and liabilities, Idaho Power could be required to eliminate some or all of those regulatory assets or liabilities. Any of these circumstances could result in write-offs and have a material effect on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations."
