[1] "ITEM 1A:RISK FACTORS. We are subject to various risks that may materially harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. In evaluating an investment in shares of our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information included in this report.. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, or if additional risks and uncertainties later materialize, that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, then our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our shares. The risks discussed below include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.. Risks Related to the Company. We lack an established operating history on which to evaluate our business and determine if we will be able to execute our business plan. We have also incurred losses in prior periods, expect to incur losses in the future and we can give no assurance that our operations will result in profits.. We were formed in Texas on May 17, 2007 and converted to a Delaware corporation on July 15, 2013. We have a limited operating history that makes it difficult to evaluate our business. Historical sales of our products have been in low volume, and we cannot say with certainty when we will begin to achieve profitability, if ever.. Since inception, we have sustained approximately $56 million in net losses and we had a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2017 of approximately $10 million. We expect to have operating losses at least until such time as we have developed a substantial and stable revenue base. We cannot assure you that we can develop a substantial and stable revenue base or achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future.. As sales of our products have generated limited operating revenues, we have been funding operations primarily through the sale of common stock and, prior to our initial public offering, the issuance of convertible debt. If we are unable to execute our business plan, generate sustainable revenue and achieve profitable operations with our existing capital we would need to raise funds through equity or debt offerings and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so.. Our future success is difficult to predict because we operate in emerging and evolving markets, and the industries in which we compete are subject to volatile and unpredictable cycles.. The stand-alone energy storage, solar + storage, microgrid and related industries are emerging and evolving markets which may make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and which may lead to period to period variability in our operating results. Our products are based on unique technology which we believe offers significant advantages to our customers, but the markets we serve are in a relatively early stage of development and it is uncertain how rapidly they will develop. It is also uncertain whether our products will achieve high levels of demand and acceptance as these markets grow. If companies in the industries we serve do not perceive or value the benefits of our technologies and products, or if they are unwilling to adopt our products as alternatives to traditional power conversion solutions, the market for our products may not develop or may develop more slowly than we expect, which could significantly and adversely impact our operating results.. We may also be subject to business cycles. The timing, length, and volatility of these business cycles may be difficult to predict. These markets may be cyclical because of sudden changes in customers’ manufacturing capacity requirements and spending, which depend in part on capacity utilization, demand for customers’ products, the availability and amount of government incentive programs, inventory levels relative to demand, and access to affordable capital. These changes may affect the timing and amounts of customers’ purchases and investments in technology, and materially affect our orders, net sales, operating expenses, and net income. For example, during 2016, we experienced a significant decline in revenues compared to 2015 as a result of delays in awards under California’s Self-Generation Incentive Program, or SGIP, which provides economic incentives for energy storage projects. The California Public Utility Commission, or CPUC, delayed announcing the 2016 awards as it examined and ultimately revised the award solicitation process and other aspects of the SGIP. The revised SGIP was not finalized until July 1, 2016, which delayed the determination of project winners and the processing of the related awards. These delays not only caused a temporary disruption in the market, as awarded projects are typically not commissioned and installed until many months after the award is granted, but also contributed to an overall stagnation in the California market for stand-alone energy storage that continued throughout 2017. If delays occur in the future under the SGIP or other governmental incentives or these programs prove ineffective or burdensome, our revenues may be delayed or reduced.. 13. To meet rapidly changing demand in each of the markets we serve, we must effectively manage our resources and production capacity. During periods of decreasing demand for our products, we must be able to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, effectively manage our supply chain, and motivate and retain key employees. During periods of increasing demand, we must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to fulfill customer orders, effectively manage our supply chain, and attract, retain, and motivate a sufficient number of qualified individuals. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes in our business environment or to accurately assess where we are positioned within a business cycle, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Obsolete inventory as a result of changes in demand for our products, changes in life cycle of our products or regulatory changes could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. The life cycles of our products depend upon the rapidly evolving industries for which our products are designed. Products with short life cycles require us to closely manage our production and inventory levels. Inventory may also become obsolete because of adverse changes in market demand. We may in the future be adversely affected by obsolete or excess inventories, which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products or shorter than anticipated product life cycles due to changes in product designs necessitated by market factors or changes to regulatory standards and/or requirements. In addition, certain customers in early markets may change their strategy, exit our target markets and/or go out of business; therefore, some of our product inventory may become obsolete and, thus, adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. As an example, we recorded charges of $334,889 and $673,102 in 2016 and 2017, respectively, for excess and obsolete inventory in connection with the end-of-life, or EOL, of our IBC-30 battery converter and first generation 125kW product. In addition, although we did not record a charge for excess and obsolete inventory in connection with the EOL of our second generation 30kW product, we did discontinue this product in 2017. Challenges in managing EOL situations or lower than expected sales prior to the EOL of our products could result in material charges related to excess and obsolete inventory and our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. To date we have had a limited number of customers. We cannot assure you that our customer base will increase.. We had revenue from one customer that accounted for 15% of net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. The Company had an accounts receivable balance from three customers that accounted for 60% of net trade receivables at December 31, 2017. As we sell our products to a limited number of customers, we cannot assure you that our customer base will expand or that any decline in net revenue attributable to customer losses will be replaced in a timely manner.. Product development is an inherently uncertain process, and we may encounter unanticipated development challenges and may not be able to meet our product development and commercialization milestones.. Product development and testing may be subject to unanticipated and significant delays, expenses and technical or other problems. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully achieve our milestones within our planned timeframe or ever. We commonly develop prototypes of planned products prior to the full commercialization of these products. We cannot predict whether prototypes of future products will achieve results consistent with our expectations. A prototype could cost significantly more than expected or the prototype design and construction process could uncover problems that are not consistent with our expectations. Prototypes of emerging products are a material part of our business plan, and if they are not proven to be successful, our business and prospects could be harmed.. 14. More generally, the commercialization of our products may also be adversely affected by many factors not within our control, including:. •the willingness of market participants to try new products and the perceptions of these market participants of the safety, reliability, functionality and cost effectiveness of our products;. •policy changes and the availability of governmental incentives at both the state and federal level for our target markets;. •the emergence of newer, possibly more effective technologies;. •the future cost and availability of the raw materials and components needed to manufacture and use our products; and. •the adoption of new regulatory or industry standards that may adversely affect the use or cost of our products.. Accordingly, we cannot predict that our products will be accepted on a scale sufficient to support development of mass markets for them.. We must achieve design wins to retain our existing customers and to obtain new customers, although design wins achieved do not necessarily result in substantial sales.. Our products are typically integrated into systems by our customers. We must work with these manufacturers early in their design cycles to modify our equipment or design new equipment to meet the requirements of their systems. Manufacturers typically choose one or two vendors to provide the components for use in their systems. Selection as one of these vendors is called a design win. It is critical that we achieve these design wins in order to retain existing customers and to obtain new customers.. We believe that equipment manufacturers often select their suppliers based on factors including long-term relationships and end user demand. Accordingly, we may have difficulty achieving design wins from equipment manufacturers who are not currently our customers. In addition, we must compete for design wins for new systems and products of our existing customers, including those with whom we have had long-term relationships. Our efforts to achieve design wins are time consuming and expensive and may not be successful. If we are not successful in achieving design wins, or if we do achieve design wins but our customers’ systems that utilize our products are not successful, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted.. Once a manufacturer chooses a component for use in a particular system, it is likely to retain that component for the life of that system. Our sales and growth could experience material and prolonged adverse effects if we fail to achieve design wins. However, design wins do not always result in substantial sales, as sales of our products are dependent upon our customers’ sales of their products.. We will be subject to applicable third-party certification to ensure compliance with applicable codes and standards of the countries in which we sell products, which are costly and may prevent or delay us from marketing our products in those countries.. In addition to third-party certification to ensure compliance with applicable codes and standards in the United States, we are subject to the third-party certification of our products to ensure compliance with applicable codes and standards for each foreign country to which we export our products. For example, in the EU, third-party certification requires compliance with Conformité Européene, or CE, standards and is evidenced by a CE mark. The CE mark is the manufacturer’s declaration that the product complies with the essential requirements of the relevant European health, safety and environmental protection legislation. Additionally, to sell a product in any specific country in the EU, the product must meet the International Electrotechnical Commission, or IEC, codes specified for products in the specific country. The applicable codes vary from country to country. It generally takes several months to obtain the relevant CE and IEC certifications. Any changes in codes and standards and related third-party compliance testing and listing may cause us to incur additional costs. We may not be able to obtain US or foreign third-party certification on a timely basis, if at all, and any failure to do so may cause us to incur additional costs or prevent us from marketing or selling our products in US or foreign countries, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. We have received grant funds from the United States for the development of a bi-directional switch. In certain instances, the United States may obtain title to inventions related to this effort. If we were to lose title to those inventions, we may have to pay to license them from the United States in order to manufacture the inventions. If we were unable to license those inventions from the United States, it could slow down our product development.. In conjunction with the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, or ARPA-E, grant we received from the Department of Energy, we granted to the United States a non-exclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced for or on behalf of the United States inventions related to the bi-directional switch and made within the scope of the grant. If we fail to disclose to the Department of Energy an invention made with grant funds that we disclose to patent counsel or for publication, or if we elect not to retain title to the invention, the United States may request that title to the subject invention be transferred to it.. We also granted “march-in-rights” to the United States in connection with any bi-directional switch inventions in which we choose not to retain title, if those inventions are made under the ARPA-E grant. Pursuant to the march-in-rights, the United States has the right to require us, any person to whom we have assigned our rights, or any exclusive licensee to grant a non-exclusive, partially exclusive, or exclusive license in any field of use to a responsible applicant upon terms that are reasonable. If the license is not granted as requested, the United States has the right to grant the license if it determines that we have not achieved practical application of the invention in the field of use, the action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, the action is necessary to meet requirements for public use specified by Federal regulations and such requirements have not been satisfied, or the action is necessary because an agreement to manufacture the invention in the United States has not been obtained or waived or because any such agreement has been breached.. If we lost title to the United States as a result of any of these events, we would have to pay to license the inventions, if needed, from the United States to manufacture the bi-directional switch. If we were unable to license those inventions from the United States, it could slow down our product development.. As we continue to grow and to develop our intellectual property, we could attract threats from patent monetization firms or competitors alleging infringement. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights.. As we continue to grow and to develop our intellectual property, we could attract threats from patent monetization firms or competitors alleging infringement of intellectual property rights.. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. If we do not prevail in this type of litigation, we may be required to: pay monetary damages; stop commercial activities relating to our product; obtain one or more licenses in order to secure the rights to continue manufacturing or marketing certain products; or attempt to compete in the market with substantially similar products. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue some of our operations.. We expect to license our technology in the future; however the terms of these agreements may not prove to be advantageous to us. If the license agreements we enter into do not prove to be advantageous to us, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected.. During 2016, we entered into our first licensing agreement and we expect to license the manufacture of our product designs for certain markets as well as license our technology for certain potential applications which we choose not to pursue directly through the sale of products in the future. However, we may not be able to secure license agreements with customers on terms that are advantageous to us. Furthermore, the timing and volume of revenue earned from license agreements is and will be outside of our control. If the license agreements we have, or enter into in the future, do not prove to be advantageous to us, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected.. 16. Until recently, we have not devoted significant resources towards the marketing and sale of our products and we continue to rely on the marketing and sales efforts of third parties whom we do not control.. We expect that the marketing and sale of our products to end user customers will continue to be conducted primarily by a combination of system integrators, third-party strategic partners, distributors, and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs. Consequently, commercial success of our products will depend, to a great extent, on the efforts of others. We may not be able to identify, maintain or establish additional and/or appropriate relationships in the future. We can give no assurance that these third parties will focus adequate resources on selling our products or will be successful in selling them. In addition, these third-parties have or may require us to provide volume price discounts and other allowances, customize our products or provide other concessions that could reduce the potential profitability of these relationships. Failure to develop sufficient customer, distribution and marketing relationships in our target markets will adversely affect our commercialization schedule and to the extent we have entered or enter into such relationships, the failure of our distributors and other third parties to assist us with the marketing and distribution of our products, or to meet their monetary obligations to us, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. A material part of our success depends on our ability to manage our suppliers and contract manufacturers. Our failure to manage our suppliers and contract manufacturers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and relations with our customers.. We rely upon suppliers to provide the components necessary to build our products and on contract manufacturers to procure components and assemble our products. There can be no assurance that key suppliers and contract manufacturers will provide components or products in a timely and cost-efficient manner, provide quality components or manufacturing and assembly services or otherwise meet our needs and expectations. Our ability to manage such relationships and timely replace suppliers and contract manufacturers, if necessary, is critical to our success. Our failure to timely replace our contract manufacturers and suppliers, should that become necessary, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and relations with our customers.. We are currently in arbitration with our former contract manufacturer due, in part, to workmanship quality issues we have identified in the assembly of our legacy products by this contract manufacturer. The failure of our contract manufacturers to provide quality manufacturing and assembly services, as well as the resources that may be required to address any such issues on products shipped to customers with any such quality issues, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, results of operations and relations with our customers.. We may need additional financing to execute our business plan and fund operations, which additional financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or not at all.. We believe that our current cash and working capital resources will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations to fund our future working capital needs, we will be required to obtain additional financing to continue our operations and execute our business plan. We may not be able to obtain such financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain such financing when needed, our business could fail.. The macro-economic environment in the United States and abroad has adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our ability to raise capital, which may potentially impact our ability to continue our operations.. As a company with limited revenues to date, we have relied on raising funds from investors to support our research and development activities and our operations. Macro-economic conditions in the United States and abroad may result in a tightening of the credit markets and/or less capital available for small public companies, which may make it more difficult to raise capital. If we are unable to raise funds as and when we need them, we may be forced to curtail our operations or even cease operating altogether.. 17. We are subject to credit risks.. Some of our customers may experience financial difficulties and/or may fail to meet their financial obligations to us. As a result, we may incur charges for bad debt provisions related to some trade receivables. In addition, in connection with the growth of the renewable energy market and other markets for our products, we are gaining new customers, some of which have relatively short histories of operations, are located outside the United States or are newly formed companies. As a result, it is difficult to ascertain financial information in order to appropriately extend credit to these customers. Further, the volatility in the renewable energy market may put additional pressure on our customers’ financial positions, as they may be required to respond to large swings in revenue. The renewable energy industry has also, from time to time, seen an increasing amount of bankruptcies and reorganizations as the availability of financing has diminished. Although none of our customers filed for bankruptcy in 2017, one customer filed for bankruptcy in 2016 and another customer filed for bankruptcy in 2015. In addition, we are currently pursuing legal action against KACO new energy, Inc. for its failure to pay us for product shipped in December 2016. On March 23, 2018, we received a judgment of garnishment to recover funds from KACO new energy, Inc. held by Chase Bank in the amount of $203,121.. If customers fail to meet their financial obligations to us, or if the assumptions underlying our recorded bad debt provisions with respect to receivables obligations do not accurately reflect our customers’ financial condition and payment levels, we could incur write-offs of receivables in excess of our provisions, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and operating results.. If our products have component malfunctions or design defects, we may be exposed to lawsuits and/or other claims and we may not be able to control our warranty exposure, which could increase our expenses, harm our reputation and prevent us from growing our business.. We currently offer, and expect to continue to offer, a warranty with respect to our products and a design warranty with respect to licensing agreements. Due to our limited long-term history of operating data, our warranty reserve is estimated based on engineering judgment and third-party assessments of our product reliability. If our products have component malfunctions or design defects, the accumulated cost of warranty claims could be significant. If the cost of warranty claims exceeds any reserves we may establish for such claims, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In 2017, we recorded incremental charges of $283,457 to increase our reserves for warranty claims and may have other potentially material incremental charges in the future.. In addition, potential customers may rely on our products for critical needs and a malfunction of our products could result in warranty claims or other product liability. A well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products. This could result in a decline in demand for our products, which would reduce revenue and harm our business. Further, since our products are used in systems that are made by other manufacturers, we may be subject to product liability claims or negative market perception of our products even if our products do not malfunction.. We are highly dependent on the services of key members of our management team. Our inability to retain these individuals could impede our business plan and growth strategies, which could have a negative impact on our business and the value of your investment.. Our ability to implement our business plan depends, to a critical extent, on the continued efforts and services of key members of our management team. If we lose the services of any of these persons during this important time in our development, the loss may result in a delay in the implementation of our business plan and plan of operations. We can give no assurance that we could find satisfactory replacements for these individuals on terms that would not be unduly expensive or burdensome to us. We do not currently carry a key-man life insurance policy that would assist us in recouping our costs in the event of the death or disability of any of these persons.. 18. Any failure by management to properly manage our expected rapid growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. If our business develops as expected, we anticipate that we may grow rapidly in the near future. Our failure to properly manage any such rapid growth could have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain key personnel. Our expansion could also place significant demands on our management, supply chain, operations, systems, accounting, internal controls and financial resources. If we experience difficulties in any of these areas, we may not be able to expand our business successfully or effectively manage our growth. Any failure by management to manage growth and to respond to changes in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Backlog may not result in revenue.. We define backlog as consisting of accepted orders from customers for which an expected product delivery schedule has been specified. The purchase orders comprising backlog are not cancelable in most cases and such orders generally do not provide price protection. Nevertheless, deliveries against received purchase orders may be rescheduled within negotiated parameters or canceled in certain limited instances and our backlog may, therefore, not be indicative of revenues in any given period. From time to time, our backlog is highly concentrated with a limited number of customers. If any of these customers change their strategy, exit our target markets and/or go out of business, our backlog would be materially adversely impacted.. In particular, there is significant uncertainty around the pace and timing of growth in both the solar + storage market and the stand-alone energy storage market. For the solar + storage market, a new market, companies are beginning to install their first systems or developing their product offerings. For the stand-alone energy storage market, the customer representing a majority of our backlog in 2015 and 2016 exited the system integration business for commercial and industrial stand-alone energy storage. This customer exit had a material adverse impact on our backlog and we are currently evaluating whether to pursue legal action against this customer for unfulfilled orders.. Risks Relating to the Industry. The electric power conversion industry is competitive, has a number of well-financed incumbents and may see a significant number of new market entrants. We cannot guarantee that we can compete successfully.. We may compete against providers of PCS that are well established and have substantially greater assets, including manufacturing, marketing, and financial assets. These incumbents also have strong market share and name brand recognition in the industry. Potential competitors include ABB, Ltd., Eaton Corporation plc, Huawei , SMA , and Schneider Electric SE. Pricing and servicing, as well as the general quality, efficiency and reliability of products, are significant competitive criteria in this industry. New market entrants may offer competitive new technologies and products, and will contribute to significant price competition.. Our ability to successfully compete on each of these criteria is material to the acceptance of our products and their future profitability. In addition, the industry may resist new technology and products from suppliers that are not well capitalized with long track records of performance. Our competitors use their balance sheet and brand recognition to their competitive advantage. Should our products become commercially successful, competitors may seek to drive their own innovation and adopt or copy ideas, designs and features to regain their competitive positions. Incumbent or new competitors may develop or offer technologies and products that may be more effective or popular than our products and these competitors may be more successful in marketing their products than we are in marketing our products.. 19. Our ability to achieve our cost reduction goals now and in the future and maintain pricing at or near the level of our competitors is critical to our long-term success and the viability of our business as, over the long-term, price is a key competitive criteria in the power electronics industry. Additionally, price competition may result in lower than expected margins for our products which would adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and operating results.. We expect to compete on the basis of our products’ technological innovation, flexibility, features and smaller footprint at a market competitive price. Unrelated technological advances in alternative energy products or other power conversion technologies may negatively impact the development of our products or make our products uncompetitive or obsolete at any time. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully in the electric power conversion industry.. Our business is and we expect will continue to be substantially dependent on utility rate structures and government incentive programs that encourage the use of alternative energy sources. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for energy-related technologies would harm our business.. The current market for, and we believe that near-term growth of, energy-related technologies, including power conversion technology, relies and will continue to rely on the availability and size of government and economic incentives and grants (including, but not limited to, the U.S. ITC and various state and local incentive programs). These incentive programs could be challenged by utility companies, or for other reasons found to be unconstitutional, and/or could be reduced or discontinued for other reasons. The reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives would harm our business.. A combination of utility rate structures and government subsidies that encourage the use of alternative energy sources is a primary driver of demand for our products. For example, public utilities are often allowed to collect demand charges on commercial and industrial customers in addition to traditional usage charges. In addition, the federal government and many states encourage the use of alternative energy sources through a combination of direct subsidies and tariff incentives such as net metering for users that use alternative energy sources such as solar power. California also encourages alternative energy technology through its SGIP which offers rebates for businesses and consumers who adopt certain new technologies. As a result of these incentives, we believe that a substantial portion of the products we have sold have been for use by end customers in California. Other states have similar incentives and mandates which encourage the adoption of alternative energy sources. Notwithstanding the adoption of other incentive programs, we expect that California will be the most significant market for the sale of our products in the near term for stand-alone energy storage applications. Should California or another state in which we derive a substantial portion of our product revenues in the future change its utility rate structure or delay, eliminate or significantly reduce its incentive programs, demand for our products could be substantially affected, which would adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and operating results.. For example, in 2016, we experienced a material decline in revenues compared to 2015 as a result of delays in awards under California’s SGIP, which provides economic incentives for energy storage projects. Awards under the SGIP were delayed as the California Public Utility Commission, or CPUC, examined and ultimately revised the award solicitation process and other aspects of the SGIP. The revised SGIP was not finalized until July 2016, which delayed the determination of project winners and the processing of the related awards. These delays not only caused a temporary disruption in the market, as awarded projects are typically not commissioned and installed until many months after the award is granted, but also contributed to an overall stagnation in the California market for stand-alone storage that continued throughout 2017. Political changes, disruptions or gridlock, or reviews or revisions of previously announced incentive programs or procedures for making awards or administering such programs could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and future prospects.. Changes to the National Electrical Codes could adversely affect our technology and products.. Our products are installed by system integrators that must meet the National Electrical Codes, or NEC, standards, including using equipment that meets industry standards such as UL1741 SA. The NEC standards address the safety of these systems. The NEC standards, along with the UL1741 SA and IEEE1547 requirements, continue to evolve and are subject to change. If we respond to these changing standards and requirements more slowly than our competitors, or if we are unable to meet new standards and requirements, our products will be less competitive.. 20. Some of the components of energy storage products pose potential safety risks which could create negative public perception regarding the energy storage markets.. Many energy storage products make use of lithium-ion batteries, which have been observed in certain applications, such as automotive applications, to catch fire or vent smoke and flame. Such events have raised concerns, and future events may lead to additional concerns, about the safety of lithium-ion batteries. Negative public perceptions regarding the suitability of lithium-ion batteries for energy storage applications or any future incident involving lithium-ion batteries, even if such incident does not involve our power conversion systems or relates to an application other than energy storage, could negatively impact the continued adoption of energy storage products and have a material adverse impact on our sales and our business.. Growth in our target markets largely depends on the continued decline in battery prices.. Our initial target markets of solar + storage and stand-alone energy storage and are early stage markets. Growth in these markets is highly dependent on a continued decline in battery prices as batteries represent the largest component of system cost. Any disruption in the supply of batteries resulting in higher than expected battery pricing or stagnation in the level of price declines for batteries could result in slower than expected growth in our target markets and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our business.. New technologies in the alternative energy industry may supplant our current products and technology in this market, which would harm our business and operations.. The alternative energy industry is subject to rapid technological change. Our future success will depend on the cutting-edge relevance of our technology, and thereafter on our ability to appropriately respond to changing technologies and changes in function of products and quality. If new technologies supplant our power conversion technology, our business would be adversely affected and we will have to revise our plan of operation.. Businesses, consumers, and utilities might not adopt alternative energy solutions as a means for providing or obtaining their electricity and power needs.. On-site distributed power generation solutions that utilize our products provide an alternative means for obtaining electricity and are relatively new methods of obtaining electrical power. There is a risk that businesses, consumers, and utilities may not adopt these new methods at levels sufficient to grow our business. Traditional electricity distribution is based on the regulated industry model whereby businesses and consumers obtain their electricity from a government regulated utility. For alternative methods of distributed power to succeed, businesses, consumers and utilities must adopt new purchasing practices and must be willing to rely upon less traditional means of providing and purchasing electricity. As larger solar projects come online, utilities are becoming increasingly concerned with grid stability, power management and the predictable loading of such power onto the grid.. We cannot be certain that businesses, consumers, and utilities will choose to utilize on-site distributed power at levels sufficient to sustain our business. The development of a mass market for our products may be impacted by many factors which are out of our control, including:. •market acceptance of systems that incorporate our products;. •the cost competitiveness of these systems;. •regulatory requirements and government incentives; and. •the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products.. 21. If a mass market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to recover the costs we will have incurred to develop these products.. Our sales cycle is lengthy and variable, which makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and which may affect our quarterly results.. The sales cycle for our products is typically lengthy and unpredictable, which makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast revenues in a given period, and may cause revenue and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. We currently sell our products primarily to system integrators that integrate our products into larger “turn-key” solutions for their customers. Before system integrators agree to specify our products in their systems, the integrators engage in a lengthy and time-consuming process of testing and evaluating our equipment. This process can take from a few months to as long as a year. Even if our products are approved for use by a system integrator, the system integrator may not place an order for our equipment until the system integrator has entered into a contract with the end user for the design and installation of the system. In many cases, the system integrator is required to respond to a detailed request for proposal or to submit a proposal before a contract for the system is executed. As a result, there may be a significant period of time between the time our products are approved for use by a particular system integrator and the time we record revenue from the sale of our products. As a result of potentially lengthy sales cycles, we may have difficulty in accurately predicting our operating results for any given period, and may experience significant unanticipated fluctuations in our revenues from period to period. Any failure to achieve anticipated revenues for a period could adversely affect our operating results and the market price of our common stock.. Our revenue and operating results for any quarterly reporting period may fluctuate significantly depending on the timing of the delivery of our products.. Our revenue from product sales has resulted from the sale of a relatively low volume of units to a limited number of customers. As a result, a change in the expected delivery date for a particular customer order could have a significant impact on our quarterly revenues and operating results. Although we maintain a small finished goods inventory, in most cases products are produced for us by our contract manufacturer in response to a particular customer order. Because of our varying sales cycles, our manufacturing lead times and the limited to moderate flexibility in rescheduling delivery dates we provide to our customers, we may not be able to accurately predict the timing of the delivery of a particular order. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in our revenues from period to period could adversely affect our operating results and the market price for our common stock.. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock. The public market for our common stock may be volatile. This may affect the ability of our investors to sell their shares as well as the price at which they sell their shares.. The market price for the shares may be significantly affected by factors such as variations in the volume of trading activity, quarterly and yearly operating results, general trends in the alternative energy industry or other markets we serve, and changes in state or federal regulations affecting us and our industry. Furthermore, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. Such broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We have the right to issue, and have in the past issued, shares of preferred stock. If we were to issue additional preferred stock, it may have rights, preferences and privileges that may adversely affect the common stock.. We are authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock, with such rights, preferences and privileges as may be determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in one or more series, and to fix for any series the dividend rights, dissolution or liquidation preferences, redemption prices, conversion rights, voting rights, and other rights, preferences and privileges for the preferred stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, depending on the rights, preferences and privileges attributable to the preferred stock, could reduce the voting rights and powers of the common stock and the portion of our assets allocated for distribution to common stockholders in a liquidation event, and could also result in dilution in the book value per share of the common stock we are offering. The preferred stock could also be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method for raising additional capital or discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, to the detriment of the investors in the common stock offered hereby. We cannot assure you that we will not, under certain circumstances, issue shares of our preferred stock. At December 31, 2017, we had 1,518,430 shares of non-voting preferred stock outstanding inclusive of 708,430 non-voting shares of preferred stock sold to certain investors pursuant to a private placement of common stock, preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock completed in March 2017.. 22. We have not paid dividends in the past and have no immediate plans to pay dividends.. We plan to reinvest all of our earnings, to the extent we have earnings, in order to market our products and to cover operating costs and to otherwise become and remain competitive. We do not plan to pay any cash dividends with respect to our securities in the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that we would, at any time, generate sufficient surplus cash that would be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock as a dividend. Therefore, you should not expect to receive cash dividends on our common stock.. We incur significant costs as a result of being a public company that reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our management is required to devote substantial time to meet compliance obligations.. As a public company reporting to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We are subject to reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC that impose significant requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel are required to devote a substantial amount of time to these and other new compliance initiatives. In addition, we believe these rules and regulations may make it more costly for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage in the future. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified people to serve on our board of directors, on our board committees or as executive officers.. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market for our common stock.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.. At December 31, 2017, we had 13,996,121 shares of common stock outstanding and 1,518,430 shares of preferred stock outstanding. Shares beneficially owned by our affiliates and employees are subject to volume and other restrictions under Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act, various vesting agreements, our insider trading policy and/or any applicable 10b5-1 trading plan. Shares that are not beneficially owned by our affiliates and employees generally can be freely sold in the public market, subject in some cases to restrictions under Rule 144.. At December 31, 2017, we had 8,837,315 potentially dilutive shares outstanding and we may grant additional options, stock-based awards and/or warrants in the future. If our stock price rises, the holders of vested options, stock-based awards or warrants may exercise their options, stock-based awards and/or warrants and sell a large number of shares. Any sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. 23. Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders consider favorable.. Our Certificate of Incorporation, or Certificate, and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control or change in our management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares, or transactions that our stockholders might otherwise deem to be in their best interests. The provisions in our Certificate and bylaws:. •authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us;. •limit who may call stockholder meetings;. •do not permit stockholders to act by written consent;. •do not provide for cumulative voting rights; and. •provide that all vacancies may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum.. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may limit our ability to engage in any business combination with a person who beneficially owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock unless certain conditions are satisfied. This restriction lasts for a period of three years following the share acquisition. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. See “Anti-Takeover Effects of Certain Provisions of Delaware Law and Our Charter Documents” for additional information.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. Currently, a number of securities analysts publish reports on us on a regular basis. If any of the analysts who cover us now or in the future issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline."
