[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. RISKS RELATING TO COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR PRODUCTS. We depend heavily on our lead product, JAKAFI (ruxolitinib), which is marketed as JAKAVI outside the United States. If we are unable to successfully commercialize JAKAFI in its approved indications or to successfully obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib for the treatment of additional indications, or if we are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed.. JAKAFI is our first and, currently, only product approved for sale in the United States. It was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in November 2011 for the treatment of patients with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis and in December 2014 for the treatment of patients with polycythemia vera who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea, which we refer to as uncontrolled polycythemia vera. Although we have received regulatory approval for these indications, such approval does not guarantee future revenues. While in June 2016 we acquired exclusive rights to develop and commercialize ICLUSIG in the European Union, or EU, and other countries,. 28. Table of Contents. we anticipate that JAKAFI product sales will continue to contribute a significant percentage of our total revenues over the next several years.. The commercial success of JAKAFI and our ability to generate and maintain revenues from the sale of JAKAFI will depend on a number of factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe number of patients with intermediate or high - risk myelofibrosis or uncontrolled polycythemia vera who are diagnosed with the disease and the number of such patients that may be treated with JAKAFI;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe acceptance of JAKAFI by patients and the healthcare community;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twhether physicians, patients and healthcare payors view JAKAFI as therapeutically effective and safe relative to cost and any alternative therapies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by third - party payors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability of our third - party manufacturers to manufacture JAKAFI in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability of our company and our third - party providers to provide marketing and distribution support for JAKAFI;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe label and promotional claims allowed by the FDA;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe maintenance of regulatory approval for the approved indications in the United States; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib in the United States for additional indications.. If we are not successful in commercializing JAKAFI in the United States, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed and we may need to delay other drug discovery and development initiatives or even significantly curtail operations.. In addition, our receipt of royalties under our collaboration agreement with Novartis for sales of JAKAVI outside the United States will depend on factors similar to those listed above for jurisdictions outside the United States.. If we are unable to obtain, or maintain at anticipated levels, reimbursement for our products from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, our pricing may be affected or our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed.. We may not be able to sell our products on a profitable basis or our profitability may be reduced if we are required to sell our products at lower than anticipated prices or reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. JAKAFI and ICLUSIG are expensive and almost all patients will require some form of third-party coverage to afford their cost. Our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if we cannot depend on government and other third-party payors to defray the cost of our products to the patient. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and by region, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. Reimbursement in the EU must be negotiated on a country-by-country basis and in many countries the product cannot be commercially launched until reimbursement is approved. The timing to complete the negotiation process in each country is highly uncertain, and in some countries, we expect that it may exceed 12 months.  Risks related to pricing and reimbursement are described below under \" - Other Risks Relating to our Business -  Health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our products and drug candidates. Our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third-party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by current and potential healthcare reform legislation.\" If government and other third-party payors refuse to provide. 29. Table of Contents. coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products, determine to provide a lower level of coverage and reimbursement than anticipated, or reduce previously approved levels of coverage and reimbursement, then our pricing or reimbursement for our products may be affected and our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed.. We depend upon a limited number of specialty pharmacies and wholesalers for a significant portion of any revenues from JAKAFI, and the loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, any one of these specialty pharmacies or wholesalers could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. We sell JAKAFI primarily to specialty pharmacies and wholesalers. Specialty pharmacies dispense JAKAFI to patients in fulfillment of prescriptions and wholesalers sell JAKAFI to hospitals and physician offices. We do not promote JAKAFI to specialty pharmacies or wholesalers, and they do not set or determine demand for JAKAFI. Our ability to successfully commercialize JAKAFI will depend, in part, on the extent to which we are able to provide adequate distribution of JAKAFI to patients. Although we have contracted with a number of specialty pharmacies and wholesalers, they are expected generally to carry a very limited inventory and may be reluctant to be part of our distribution network in the future if demand for the product does not increase. Further, it is possible that these specialty pharmacies and wholesalers could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, at some time in the future. This could result in their refusal to carry smaller volume products such as JAKAFI, or lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing our product. Although we believe we can find alternative channels to distribute JAKAFI on relatively short notice, our revenue during that period of time may suffer and we may incur additional costs to replace any such specialty pharmacy or wholesaler. The loss of any large specialty pharmacy or wholesaler as part of our distribution network, a significant reduction in sales we make to specialty pharmacies or wholesalers, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our products.. Prior to our commercialization of JAKAFI, we had no experience selling and marketing drug products and with pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drug products. Under our collaboration and license agreement with Novartis, we have retained commercialization rights to JAKAFI in the United States. We have established commercial capabilities in the United States, but cannot guarantee that we will be able to enter into and maintain any marketing, distribution or third-party logistics agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. In connection with our June 2016 acquisition from ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. we licensed rights to develop and commercialize ICLUSIG in certain countries and we acquired the European sales, marketing and distribution operations of ARIAD.  We may not be able to maintain those operations or retain their personnel or distribution arrangements. We may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities necessary to successfully market and sell our products. Establishing and maintaining sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are expensive and time consuming. Competition for personnel with experience in sales and marketing can be high. Our expenses associated with building and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities may be disproportional compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of our products.. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could lose our approval to market our products or be subject to other governmental enforcement activity.. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain regulatory approval to market our products in the jurisdictions in which they are currently marketed. If we do not maintain our regulatory approval to market our products, in particular JAKAFI, our results of operations will be materially harmed. We and our collaborators, third-party manufacturers and suppliers are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the FDA and other federal and state agencies as well as foreign governmental agencies. These regulations continue to apply after product marketing approval, and cover, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, risk mitigation, and adverse event reporting requirements.. The commercialization of our products is subject to post-regulatory approval product surveillance, and our products may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. Regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing for our products, and our products may be recalled. 30. Table of Contents. or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity.  For example, from late 2013 through 2014, ICLUSIG was subject to review by the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, of the benefits and risks of ICLUSIG to better understand the nature, frequency and severity of events obstructing the arteries or veins, the potential mechanism that leads to these side effects and whether there needed to be a revision in the dosing recommendation, patient monitoring and a risk management plan for ICLUSIG. This review was completed in January 2015, with additional warnings in the product information but without any change in the approved indications.  The EMA could take additional actions in the future that reduce the commercial potential of ICLUSIG.. Failure to comply with the laws and regulations administered by the FDA or other agencies could result in:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadministrative and judicial sanctions, including warning letters;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfines and other civil penalties;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval to market our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinterruption of production;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\toperating restrictions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproduct recall or seizure;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinjunctions; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcriminal prosecution.. The occurrence of any such event may have a material adverse effect on our business.. If the use of our products harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to our products, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims.. The testing of JAKAFI and ICLUSIG, the manufacturing, marketing and sale of JAKAFI and the marketing and sale of ICLUSIG expose us to product liability and other risks. Side effects and other problems experienced by patients from the use of our products could:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlessen the frequency with which physicians decide to prescribe our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tencourage physicians to stop prescribing our products to their patients who previously had been prescribed our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcause serious harm to patients that may give rise to product liability claims against us; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tresult in our need to withdraw or recall our products from the marketplace.. If our products are used by a wide patient population, new risks and side effects may be discovered, the rate of known risks or side effects may increase, and risks previously viewed as less significant could be determined to be significant.. Previously unknown risks and adverse effects of our products may also be discovered in connection with unapproved, or off-label, uses of our products. We are prohibited by law from promoting or in any way supporting or encouraging the promotion of our products for off-label uses, but physicians are permitted to use products for off-label purposes. In addition, we are studying and expect to continue to study JAKAFI in diseases for potential additional indications in controlled clinical settings, and independent investigators are doing so as well. In the event of any new risks. 31. Table of Contents. or adverse effects discovered as new patients are treated for intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis or uncontrolled polycythemia vera and as JAKAFI is studied in or used by patients for off-label indications, regulatory authorities may delay or revoke their approvals, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of JAKAFI, reformulate JAKAFI or make changes and obtain new approvals. We may also experience a significant drop in the sales of JAKAFI, experience harm to our reputation and the reputation of JAKAFI in the marketplace or become subject to lawsuits, including class actions. Any of these results could decrease or prevent sales of JAKAFI or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing JAKAFI. Similar results could occur with respect to our commercialization of ICLUSIG.. Patients who have been enrolled in our clinical trials or who may use our products in the future often have severe and advanced stages of disease and known as well as unknown significant pre-existing and potentially life-threatening health risks. During the course of treatment, patients may suffer adverse events, including death, for reasons that may or may not be related to our products. Such events could subject us to costly litigation, require us to pay substantial amounts of money to injured patients, delay, negatively impact or end our opportunity to receive or maintain regulatory approval to market our products, or require us to suspend or abandon our commercialization efforts. Even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products, the investigation into the circumstance may be time consuming or inconclusive. These investigations may interrupt our sales efforts, impact and limit the type of regulatory approvals our products receive or maintain, or delay the regulatory approval process in other countries.. Factors similar to those listed above also apply to our collaboration partner Novartis and to ICLUSIG for jurisdictions outside the United States.. If we market our products in a manner that violates various laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties.. In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care \"fraud and abuse\" laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the anti - kickback provisions of the federal Social Security Act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. Federal and state anti - kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally -  or state - financed health care programs. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities.. Although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the FDA, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off - label uses. We market JAKAFI for intermediate or high - risk myelofibrosis and uncontrolled polycythemia vera and provide promotional materials to physicians regarding the use of JAKAFI for these indications. Although we believe that our promotional materials for physicians do not constitute off - label promotion of JAKAFI, the FDA or other agencies may disagree. If the FDA or another agency determines that our promotional materials or other activities constitute off - label promotion of JAKAFI, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. Even if it is later determined we are not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our position and have to divert significant management resources from other matters.. The European Union and member countries impose similar strict restrictions on the promotion and marketing of drug products.  The off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the EU and in other territories. The promotion of medicinal products that are not subject to a marketing authorization is also prohibited in the EU. Violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the EU and in other territories could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment.. 32. Table of Contents. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti - kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. In recent years, several states and localities, including California, Connecticut, the District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Vermont, and West Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Additionally, as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the federal government has enacted the Physician Payment Sunshine provisions. The Sunshine provisions require manufacturers to publicly report certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. Nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. See also \" - Other Risks Relating to our Business - If we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business\" below.. Competition for our products could harm our business and result in a decrease in our revenue.. Present and potential competitors for JAKAFI could include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical firms.  For example, in January 2018, Celgene Corporation announced an agreement to acquire Impact Biomedicines, which is developing a drug candidate for the treatment of myelofibrosis and polycythemia vera. See \" - Other Risks Relating to our Business -  We face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated\" for a description of risks relating to this type of competition.  In addition, JAKAFI could face competition from generic products.  As a result of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, in the United States, generic manufacturers may seek approval of a generic version of an innovative pharmaceutical by filing with the FDA an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA. The Hatch-Waxman Act provides significant incentives to generic manufacturers to challenge U.S. patents on successful innovative pharmaceutical products.  In February 2016, we received a notice letter regarding an ANDA that requested approval to market a generic version of JAKAFI and purported to challenge patents covering ruxolitinib phosphate and its use that expire in 2028. The notice letter does not challenge the ruxolitinib composition of matter patent, which expires in December 2027.  To date, to our knowledge, the FDA has taken no action with respect to this ANDA. Separately, in January 2018 the Patent Trial and Appeal Board of United States Patent and Trademark Office denied a petition challenging our patent covering deuterated ruxolitinib analogs, although the challenging party retains the right to challenge the validity of the patent in federal court. There can be no assurance that our patents will be upheld or that any litigation in which we might engage with any such generic manufacturer would be successful in protecting JAKAFI's exclusivity.  The entry of a generic version of JAKAFI could result in a decrease in JAKAFI sales and materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. ICLUSIG currently competes with existing therapies that are approved for the treatment of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, or CML, who are resistant or intolerant to prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor, or TKI, therapies, on the basis of, among other things, efficacy, cost, breadth of approved use and the safety and side-effect profile. In addition, a generic version of imatinib was launched in the United States in February 2016, and generic versions are expected to be launched in other markets. Although we currently believe that generic versions of imatinib will not materially impact our commercialization of ICLUSIG, given ICLUSIG's various indication statements globally that are currently focused on resistant or intolerant CML, we cannot be certain how physicians, payors, patients, regulatory authorities and other market participants will respond to the availability of generic versions of imatinib.. OTHER RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to discover and develop drug candidates and commercialize drug products.. None of our drug candidates, other than JAKAFI/JAKAVI, has received regulatory approval. Our ability to discover and develop drug candidates and to commercialize additional drug products will depend on our ability to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thire and retain key employees;. 33. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tidentify high quality therapeutic targets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tidentify potential drug candidates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelop products internally or license drug candidates from others;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tidentify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the United States or abroad, for our clinical trials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomplete laboratory testing;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcommence, conduct and complete safe and effective clinical trials on humans;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the United States and abroad;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdeploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions in compliance with all applicable laws;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third - party payors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products.. We have limited experience with many of the activities listed above and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing additional drug products. Discovery and development of drug candidates are expensive, uncertain and time - consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. Of the compounds or biologics that we identify as potential drug products or that we may in - license from other companies, including potential products for which we are conducting clinical trials, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs and commercialized drug products.. We depend heavily on the success of our most advanced drug candidates. We might not be able to commercialize any of our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so.. We have invested significant resources in the development of our most advanced drug candidates. Ruxolitinib is in Phase II and Phase III clinical trials for the treatment of patients with steroid-refractory acute graft-versus-host disease and is in other clinical trials. Epacadostat is in a number of Phase III clinical trials.  Further, we have a number of drug candidates in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials. Our ability to generate product revenues will depend on the successful development and eventual commercialization of our most advanced drug candidates. We, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons.  For example, in early 2016, we decided to discontinue the studies of ruxolitinib in pancreatic cancer and solid tumors and itacitinib in pancreatic cancer.  If a product is developed but not approved or marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition as well as our business plans.. If we or our collaborators are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, we or our collaborators will not be permitted to commercialize products resulting from our research.. In order to commercialize drug products in the United States, drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory. 34. Table of Contents. approval from the FDA. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. To obtain regulatory approval, we or our collaborators, as the case may be, must first show that our drug candidates are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). Preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the FDA will allow us or our collaborators to undertake clinical trials of any drug candidates in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. If regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective.. Completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. The length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the drug candidate. Interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. For example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. Our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed, and existing clinical trials with our drug candidates may be stopped, due to many potential factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe high degree of risk and uncertainty associated with drug development;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvariability in the number and types of patients available for each study;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunforeseen safety issues or side effects;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpoor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgovernment or regulatory delays.. Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Many companies in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. In addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. For example, the FDA has in the past required, and could in the future require, that we or our collaborators conduct additional trials of any of our drug candidates, which would result in delays. In April 2017, we and our collaborator Lilly announced that the FDA had issued a complete response letter for the New Drug Application (NDA) of OLUMIANT (baricitinib) as a once-daily oral medication for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis. The letter indicated that the FDA was unable to approve the application in its current form. Specifically, the FDA indicated that additional clinical data are needed to determine the most appropriate doses. The FDA also stated that additional data are necessary to further characterize safety concerns across treatment arms.. Compounds or biologics developed by us or with or by our collaborators and licensees may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. For example, in January 2016, a Phase II trial that was evaluating ruxolitinib in combination with regorafenib in patients with relapsed or refractory metastatic colorectal cancer and high C-reactive protein was stopped early after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the likelihood of the trial meeting its efficacy endpoint was insufficient.  In addition, in February 2016, we made a decision to discontinue our JANUS 1 study, our JANUS 2 study, our other studies of ruxolitinib in colorectal, breast and lung cancer, and our study of INCB39110 in pancreatic cancer after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data of JANUS 1 demonstrated that ruxolitinib plus capecitabine did not show a sufficient level of efficacy to warrant continuation. If clinical trials of any of our compounds or biologics are stopped for safety, efficacy or other reasons or fail to meet their respective endpoints, our overall development plans, business, prospects, expected operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed and the value of our company could be negatively affected.. 35. Table of Contents. Outside the United States, our and our collaborators' ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. This foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above and may also include additional risks. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require us to perform additional testing and expend additional resources. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA.. Health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our products and drug candidates. Our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third - party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by current and potential healthcare reform legislation.. Our ability to commercialize our current and any future approved products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which adequate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained from third - party payors, such as private insurers, government insurance programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and other health care related organizations.. In recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the Medicare and other federal health care programs. Comprehensive reforms to the U.S. healthcare system were enacted, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, Medicare reimbursement. While there is currently significant uncertainty regarding the implementation of some of these reforms or the scope of amended or additional reforms, the implementation of reforms could significantly reduce payments from Medicare and Medicaid. Reforms or other changes to these payment systems, may change the availability, methods and rates of reimbursements from Medicare, private insurers and other third-party payors for our current and any future approved products. Some of these changes and proposed changes could result in reduced reimbursement rates or in eliminating dual sources of payment, which could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products in the future, and which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. Further federal and state proposals to regulate prices of pharmaceutical products and other health care reforms are possible, which could limit the prices that can be charged for any of our products and may further limit the commercial viability of our products and drug candidates. In certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. If reimbursement for our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. There may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our current or any future approved products, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations.. Third - party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States, the organizations for which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative and regulatory proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. Adoption of our products by the medical community may be limited without adequate reimbursement for those products. Cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for our products and, in turn, the price that we will be able to charge for any product. Our products may not be considered cost - effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. We are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payors to our current and any future approved products.. The continuing efforts of legislatures, health agencies and third - party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care, any denial of private or government payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our drug candidates could materially and adversely affect our business strategy, operations, future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers, collaborators and licensees and the availability of capital.  The same risks apply to our compounds developed and marketed by our collaborators, and our future potential milestone and royalty revenues could be affected in a similar manner.. 36. Table of Contents. We depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. Conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business.. We have licensed to Novartis rights to ruxolitinib outside of the United States and worldwide rights to our MET inhibitor compounds and licensed to Lilly worldwide rights to baricitinib. We have also licensed to Pfizer our portfolio of CCR2 antagonist compounds. Under the terms of our agreements with these collaborators, we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of these drug candidates and any revenues we may receive if these drug candidates receive regulatory approval and are commercialized will depend primarily on the development and commercialization efforts of others. While OLUMIANT (baricitinib) was approved by the European Commission in February 2017 for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients and by Japan's Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare in July 2017 for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in patients with inadequate response to standard-of-care therapies, if the New Drug Application for baricitinib for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis does not receive FDA approval, we will not receive future milestone payments or royalties related to that indication in the United States under our agreement with Lilly.  In addition, even if baricitinib is approved by the FDA in this indication, delays in any such approval, or any label modifications or restrictions in connection with any approval by the FDA, European or other regulatory authorities, or the existence of other risks relating to approved drug products, including those described under \"Risks Relating to Commercialization of Our Products,\" could delay the receipt of and reduce resulting potential royalty and milestone revenue from baricitinib.. Conflicts may arise with our collaborators and licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. Competing products and product opportunities may lead our collaborators and licensees to withdraw their support for our drug candidates. Any failure of our collaborators and licensees to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or otherwise to support our drug candidates could negatively impact the development of our drug candidates, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. Additionally, conflicts may arise if, among other things, there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of a collaborative relationship.. Our existing collaborative and license agreements can be terminated by our collaborators and licensees for convenience, among other circumstances. If any of our collaborators or licensees terminates its agreement with us, or terminates its rights with respect to certain indications or drug candidates, we may not be able to find a new collaborator for them, and our business could be adversely affected. Should an agreement be terminated before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed, we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving, and our business could be adversely affected.. The success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. If we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, our research, development and commercialization efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. An important element of our business strategy is to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization or under which we study our drug candidates in combination with other parties' compounds or biologics. For example, in addition to our Novartis, Lilly and Pfizer collaborations, we have entered into clinical study relationships with respect to epacadostat and are evaluating strategic relationships with respect to several of our other programs. However, because collaboration and license arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. Also, we may not have drug candidates that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug candidate to a particular party because such party interested in it is a competitor or for other reasons. The terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. Alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. If we are not able to establish collaboration or license arrangements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which could adversely affect our business and our revenues.. 37. Table of Contents. We will likely not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or drug candidates. If our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected, do not devote adequate resources to the program, are unable to obtain regulatory approval of our drug candidates, pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, or do not agree with our approach to development or manufacturing of the drug candidate, the relationship could be unsuccessful. Our collaborations with respect to epacadostat involve the study of our collaborators' drugs used in combination with epacadostat on a number of indications or tumor types, many of which are the same across multiple collaborations. We cannot assure you that potential conflicts will not arise or be alleged among these collaborations. If a business combination involving a collaborator or licensee and a third-party were to occur, the effect could be to terminate or cause delays in development of a drug candidate.. If we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected.. In addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization or under which we study our drug candidates in combination with such parties' compounds or biologics, we may explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug candidates or therapeutics targets that fit within our focus on oncology, such as our collaborations with Agenus Inc., Calithera Biosciences, Inc., MacroGenics, Inc., Merus N.V., and Syros Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or explore additional opportunities to further develop and commercialize existing drug candidates in specific jurisdictions, such as our June 2016 acquisition of the development and commercialization rights to ICLUSIG in certain countries. We may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because suitable drug candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same drug candidates. Drug candidates that we would like to develop or commercialize may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug candidate to us. In addition, we may enter into license agreements that are unsuccessful and our business and operations might be adversely affected if we are unable to realize the expected economic benefits of a collaboration or other licensing arrangement, by the termination of a drug candidate and termination and winding down of the related license agreement, or due to other business or regulatory issues that may adversely affect a licensor's ability to continue to perform its obligations under an in-license agreement. As discussed above under \"We depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. Conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business,\" conflicts or other issues may arise with our licensors. Those conflicts could result in delays in our plans to develop drug candidates or result in the expenditure of additional funds to resolve those conflicts that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidates. If we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected.. Even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest.. Even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, it could be subject to post - regulatory surveillance, and may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. Regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing, and the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. As a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. Further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive or because third parties, such as insurance companies or Medicare, have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. In addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if competitors develop and commercialize similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products.. 38. Table of Contents. Any approved drug product that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community.. Even if we are successful in gaining regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates in addition to JAKAFI or acquire rights to approved drug products in addition to ICLUSIG, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable if these drug products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance. Physicians may not recommend our drug products until longer - term clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug products as compared to other alternative treatments. Even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our drug products is established, physicians may elect not to prescribe these drug products for a variety of reasons, including the reimbursement policies of government and other third - party payors and the effectiveness of our competitors in marketing their products.. Market acceptance of our drug products, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to use our drug products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability to manufacture our drug products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and to offer our drug products for sale at competitive prices;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third - party payors, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of our drug products compared to those of competing products or therapies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe label and promotional claims allowed by the FDA;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe pricing and reimbursement of our drug products relative to existing treatments; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarketing and distribution support for our drug products.. We have limited capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts.. We have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. As part of our development strategy, we often hire clinical research organizations, or CROs, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. If the CROs that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our CROs, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may cost more, may be delayed or may be terminated. If we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant additional expenditures. Events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results.. We face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated.. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. As a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs, developing their products more efficiently or pricing their products more competitively. Our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. Any drug products resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators. 39. Table of Contents. or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors' existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere. The development of products or processes by our competitors with significant advantages over those that we are developing could harm our future revenues and profitability.. Our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug products and drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority's approval.. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of JAKAFI and our other drug candidates or for ICLUSIG. We currently hire third parties to manufacture the raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and finished drug product of JAKAFI, ICLUSIG and our other drug candidates for clinical trials.  In addition, we expect to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of commercial supplies of raw materials, API and finished drug product for any drugs that we successfully develop. We also hire third parties to package and label the finished product. The FDA requires that the raw materials, API and finished product for JAKAFI and our other drug candidates be manufactured according to its current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations and regulatory authorities in other countries have similar requirements. There are only a limited number of manufacturers that comply with these requirements. Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices and the applicable regulatory requirements of other countries in the manufacture of our drug candidates and products could result in the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority halting our clinical trials, withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product, enforcing product recalls or other enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our drug candidates or any drug products we may develop if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture them according to our schedule and specifications. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel.  In addition, we may not be able to arrange for our drug candidates or any drug products that we may develop to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all.  We generally have a single source or a limited number of suppliers that are qualified to supply each of the API and finished product of JAKAFI, ICLUSIG and our other drug candidates and, in the case of JAKAFI, we only have a single source for its raw materials. If any of these suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to supply us with raw materials, API or finished product that complies with applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant delays in our clinical trials or interruption of commercial supply that could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we have promised delivery of a drug candidate or drug product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs could be delayed, we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity, and our business and operating results could be harmed.. We may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. Foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks.. A number of our collaborations involve the manufacture of antibodies. Either we or our collaborators have primary responsibility for manufacturing activities, and we are currently using third-party contract manufacturing organizations. Manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is a more complex process than manufacturing small molecule drugs and subject to additional risks. The process of manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is highly susceptible to product loss due to contamination, equipment failure or improper installation or operation of equipment, vendor or operator error, inconsistency in yields, variability in product characteristics, and difficulties in scaling the production process. Even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. If microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our product candidates or in the manufacturing facilities in which our product candidates are made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination.. 40. Table of Contents. If we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business.. Our activities, and the activities of our collaborators, partners and third - party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. The FDA and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and product risk management. States increasingly have been placing greater restrictions on the marketing practices of healthcare companies. In addition, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulations, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off - label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state healthcare business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations, violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti - bribery or anti - corruption laws, or violations related to environmental matters. There is also enhanced scrutiny of company-sponsored patient assistance programs, including insurance premium and co-pay assistance programs and donations to third-party charities that provide such assistance. Violations of governmental regulation by us, our vendors or donation recipients may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. In addition to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the government. Actions taken by federal or local governments, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies with respect to these legal and regulatory compliance matters could also result in reduced demand for our products, reduced coverage of our products by health care payors, or both. We cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, collaborators, partners or third - party providers that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and attention and adversely affect our business. Risks relating to compliance with laws and regulations may be heightened as we continue to expand our global operations and enter new therapeutic areas with different patient populations, which due to different product distribution methods, marketing programs or patient assistance programs may result in additional regulatory burdens and obligations.. As our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in Wilmington, Delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business.. Our facility in Wilmington, Delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery, research, development and marketing activities. In addition, natural disasters or actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facility. The loss of access to or use of our Wilmington, Delaware facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect our overall business.. We depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives.. We are highly dependent on the members of our executive management team and principal members of our commercial, development, medical, operations and scientific staff. We experience intense competition for qualified personnel. Our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team and key personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, and for our medical affairs and commercialization activities. If we lose the services of any of these people or if we are unable to recruit sufficient qualified personnel, our research and product development goals, and our commercialization efforts could be delayed or curtailed. We do not maintain \"key person\" insurance on any of our employees.. 41. Table of Contents. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our ability to develop and commercialize products could suffer.. We expect that if our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, and we continue to build our development, medical and commercial organizations, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management and resources. Our ability to achieve our research, development and commercialization objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization, systems, controls and facilities to accommodate additional anticipated growth. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed and our ability to execute our business strategy could suffer.. We may acquire businesses or assets, form joint ventures or make investments in other companies that may be unsuccessful, divert our management's attention and harm our operating results and prospects.. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue additional acquisitions of what we believe to be complementary businesses or assets or seek to enter into joint ventures. We also may pursue strategic alliances in an effort to leverage our existing infrastructure and industry experience to expand our product offerings or distribution, or make investments in other companies. For example, in June 2016, we completed the acquisition of the European operations of ARIAD and obtained the exclusive license to develop and commercialize ICLUSIG in Europe and other countries. The success of our acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances and investments will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and, in the case of acquisitions, integrate those transactions and, if necessary, obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those transactions.  We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, joint venture, strategic alliance or investment. We may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, maintain the key business relationships of businesses we acquire, or retain key personnel of an acquired business, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities or incur unanticipated expenses. Integration of acquired companies or businesses also may require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business.  Any acquisitions or investments made by us also could result in significant write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. For example, in the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded unrealized losses related to our investments in Agenus Inc. and Merus N.V., and we may in the future experience additional losses related to our investments.  In addition, if we choose to issue shares of our stock as consideration for any acquisition, dilution to our stockholders could result.. Risks associated with the expansion of our operations outside of the United States could adversely affect our business.. Our acquisition of ARIAD's European operations significantly expanded our operations in Europe, and we plan to continue to expand our operations and conduct certain development activities outside of the United States. We have limited experience with conducting activities outside of the United States. International operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmultiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as tax laws, privacy regulations, tariffs, export and import restrictions, employment, immigration and labor laws, regulatory requirements, and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and difficulties in connection with assimilating and integrating any operations and personnel we might acquire  into our company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trisks associated with obtaining and maintaining, or the failure to obtain or maintain, regulatory approvals for the sale or use of our products in various countries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomplexities associated with managing government payor systems, multiple payor - reimbursement regimes or patient self - pay systems;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfinancial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty obtaining financing in foreign markets, difficulty enforcing contracts and intellectual property rights, difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;. 42. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral political and economic conditions in the countries in operate, including terrorism and political unrest, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions, and uncertainties associated with the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over activities that may fall within the purview of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, its books and records provisions or its anti - bribery provisions, or similar anti - bribery or anti - corruption laws and regulations.. Although we conducted due diligence of ARIAD's European operations prior to the acquisition, we may discover or identify deficiencies or non-compliance with such laws and regulations as we complete the integration of the ARIAD business and conduct our European operations. Any of the risks described above, if encountered, could significantly increase our costs of operating internationally, prevent us from operating in certain jurisdictions, or otherwise significantly harm our future international expansion and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed.. In addition to the risks described above under \" - Risks Relating to Commercialization of Our Products - If the use of our products harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to our products, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims,\" the conduct of clinical trials of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. If any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury during clinical trials or commercialization, we may be held liable. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit further development and commercialization of our products. Additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, participants and investigators to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations.. Our product liability insurance policy may not fully cover our potential liabilities. In addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Since December 30, 2017, we elected to self-insure a portion of our exposure to product liability risks through our wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary, in tandem with third-party insurance policies. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the development or commercialization of our drug candidates and products, and if our liabilities from any such claims exceed our third-party insurance limits and self-insurance reserves, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely impacted.. Because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly.. We are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. If any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. Further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. Compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. Future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts.. 43. Table of Contents. RISKS RELATING TO OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We may incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future.. Due to historical net losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $2.0 billion as of December 31, 2017. We intend to continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. As a result, we may incur losses in future periods as well.. We anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts and related expenditures will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product.. The development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. To date, we do not have any drug products that have generated significant revenues other than from sales of JAKAFI and we cannot assure you that we will generate significant revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop, including ICLUSIG, for several years, if ever.. We cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. Even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing drug products in addition to JAKAFI and ICLUSIG, we may incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. If we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability.. We may need additional capital in the future. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations, the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates.. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts going - forward and to repay our indebtedness.. Additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe amount of revenues generated from our business activities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany changes in the breadth of our research and development programs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our current or future collaborators or licensees, if any;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour exercise of any co - development options with collaborators that may require us to fund future development;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe acquisition of businesses, technologies, or drug candidates, or the licensing of technologies or drug candidates, if any;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcosts for future facility requirements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompeting technological and market developments;. 44. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing of regulatory approvals, if any.. If we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborator or licensee that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. If we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our drug candidates. The sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders and may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our holders of common stock, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness.. Our marketable securities and long term investments are subject to risks that could adversely affect our overall financial position.. We invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments, corporate bonds and money market funds which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. In recent periods, similar types of investments and money market funds have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues that differ from their historical pattern.. Should a portion of our cash or marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. Such financing, if available, may not be available on commercially attractive terms.. As discussed under \"Other Risks Relating to Our Business -  We may acquire businesses or assets, form joint ventures or make investments in other companies that may be unsuccessful, divert our management's attention and harm our operating results and prospects,\" any investments that we may make in companies with which we have strategic alliances, such as Agenus and Merus, could result in our recognition of losses on those investments. In addition, to the extent we may seek to sell or otherwise monetize those investments, we may not be able to do so at our desired price or valuation levels, or at all, due to the limited liquidity of some or all of those investments.. Any loss in value of our long term investments could adversely affect our financial position on the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations.. Our current revenues are derived from JAKAFI and ICLUSIG product sales, JAKAVI and OLUMIANT product royalties, collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. If we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues.. We derived substantially all of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 from JAKAFI and ICLUSIG product revenues, JAKAVI and OLUMIANT product royalties and our collaborations and licensing our intellectual property to others. Future revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. If we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the future revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements.  For example, delays in or other limitations with respect to the approval of baricitinib in the United States for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, or the failure to obtain such approval, as discussed under \" - We depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. Conflicts may arise between our collaborators and. 45. Table of Contents. licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business.\" would affect potential future royalty and milestone revenue.. RISKS RELATING TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LEGAL MATTERS. If we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts.. The technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. The success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming intellectual property relating to some of our drug discovery targets and drug candidates. While the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us or if we choose to license any of these patents, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed or the potential return to us from any product that may be successfully commercialized could be diminished.. From time to time we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. Receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. Parties sending these notices may have brought and in the future may bring litigation against us or seek arbitration relating to contract claims.. We may be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. In addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tassert claims of infringement;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenforce our patents or trademarks;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprotect our trade secrets or know - how; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdetermine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others.. We may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings. Regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings can be very costly and can divert management's efforts. An adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties' patents or proprietary rights. We or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug or other product that we or they develop. Further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to develop non - infringing technology or license technology on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, our business could be harmed.. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete in developing and commercializing products.. Our business and competitive position depends in significant part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. Despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. For example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. In addition, while we have filed numerous patent applications with respect to ruxolitinib and our drug candidates in the United States and in foreign countries, our patent applications may fail to result in issued patents. In addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue as patents, there may be pending patent applications of others that may later issue as patents that cover some aspect of ruxolitinib and our drug candidates. Our existing patents and any future patents we may obtain may not be broad enough. 46. Table of Contents. to protect our products or all of the potential uses of our products, or otherwise prevent others from developing competing products or technologies. In addition, our patents may be challenged and invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages if, for example, others were first to invent or first to file a patent application for the technologies and products covered by our patents.  As noted above under \" - Risks Relating to Commercialization of Our Products - Competition for our products could potentially harm our business and result in a decrease in our revenue,\" a potential generic drug company competitor has challenged certain patents relating to JAKAFI.. Additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug candidate in - licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third-party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. If we do not control the intellectual property rights in - licensed to us with respect to a drug candidate and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in - licensed drug candidate.. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tindependently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\totherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdesign around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property.. We pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. However, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. If we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased.. If the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the United States patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased.. The value of our patents depends, in part, on their duration. A shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. The United States patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. Because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20 - year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection.. Additionally, United States patent laws were amended in 2011 with the enactment of the America Invents Act and third parties are now able to challenge the validity of issued U.S. patents through various review proceedings; thus rendering the validity of U.S. patents more uncertain. We may be obligated to participate in review proceedings to determine the validity of our U.S. patents. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, the conduct of which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and resources. If we are unsuccessful in these proceedings some or all of our claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for our products and drug candidates in the United States could be substantially shortened. Further, if all of the patents covering one of our products are invalidated, the FDA could approve requests to manufacture a generic version of that product prior to the expiration date of those patents.. Other changes in the United States patent laws or changes in the interpretation of patent laws could diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. For example, the Supreme Court of the United States recently ruled that isolated DNA sequences cannot be patented. Although we no longer receive significant revenues generated from our former information products business, the majority of our gene patent portfolio from that business consists of patents on isolated DNA sequences, and this ruling limits our ability to derive additional revenues from our gene patent portfolio. Additionally, the Supreme Court recently resolved a split among the circuit courts of appeals regarding antitrust challenges to settlements of patent infringement lawsuits under the Hatch - Waxman Act between brand - name drug companies and generic drug companies. The Court rejected the \"scope of the patent\" test and ruled that. 47. Table of Contents. settlements involving \"reverse payments\" from brand - name drug companies to generic drug companies should be analyzed under the rule of reason. This ruling may create uncertainty and make it more difficult to settle patent litigation if a company seeking to manufacture a generic version of one of our products challenges the patents covering that product prior to the expiration date of those patents.. International patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and our involvement in opposition proceedings in foreign countries may result in the expenditure of substantial sums and management resources.. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the United States is even more uncertain and costly than in the United States and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. Further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States laws. For example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. We have participated, and may in the future participate, in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors' foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. For example, there is a patent opposition proceeding in India against our Indian patent that covers the composition of matter and use of certain Janus Kinase inhibitors, including ruxolitinib phosphate, for the treatment of myeloid proliferative disorders, cancer, immune - related diseases, skin disorders, and other diseases. Successful challenges to our patent or other intellectual property rights through these proceedings could result in a loss of rights in the relevant jurisdiction and allow third parties to use our proprietary technologies without a license from us or our collaborators, which may also result in loss of future royalty payments. In addition, successful challenges may jeopardize or delay our ability to enter into new collaborations or commercialize potential products, which could harm our business and results of operations.. RISKS RELATING TO INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND DATA PRIVACY. Significant disruptions of information technology systems, breaches of data security, or unauthorized disclosures of sensitive data or personally identifiable information or individually identifiable health information could adversely affect our business, and could subject us to liability or reputational damage.. Our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology (IT) systems, including Internet-based systems, some of which are managed or hosted by third parties, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. The size and complexity of our IT systems make us potentially vulnerable to IT system breakdowns, malicious intrusion, and computer viruses, which may result in the impairment of our ability to operate our business effectively.. We are currently in the process of enhancing our IT systems to address our planned growth as well as to support our planned manufacturing operations. There are inherent costs and risks associated with implementing the enhancements to our IT systems, including potential delays in access to, or errors in, critical business and financial information, substantial capital expenditures, additional administrative time and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the enhanced systems, demands on management time, and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to the enhanced systems, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, the implementation of enhancements to our IT systems may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all.. In addition, our systems and the systems of our third-party providers and collaborators are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons or to the public. Such data security breaches could lead to the loss of confidential information, trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of personal information (including personally identifiable information or individually identifiable health information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, business partners, and others.  Data security breaches could also result in loss of clinical trial data or damage to the integrity of that data.  In addition, the increased use of social media by our employees and contractors could result in inadvertent disclosure of sensitive data or personal information, including but not limited to, confidential information, trade secrets and other intellectual property.. Any such disruption or security breach, as well as any action by us or our employees or contractors that might be inconsistent with the rapidly evolving data privacy and security laws and regulations applicable within the United States and elsewhere where we conduct business, could result in enforcement actions by U.S. states, the U.S. Federal government. 48. Table of Contents. or foreign governments, liability or sanctions under data privacy laws that protect personally identifiable information, regulatory penalties, other legal proceedings such as but not limited to private litigation, the incurrence of significant remediation costs, disruptions to our operations and collaborations, and damage to our reputation, which could harm our business and operations. Because of the rapidly moving nature of technology and the increasing sophistication of cybersecurity threats, our measures to prevent, respond to and minimize such risks may be unsuccessful.. Increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputational damage.. We and our employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of communication both internally and externally. Despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the use of social media by us or our employees to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable requirements. In addition, our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or other legal or contractual requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or result in public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. Furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image, and goodwill."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
