[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in the Company's common stock involves risks. The following is a description of the material risks and uncertainties that the Company believes affect its business and an investment in the common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company is unaware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, also may become important factors that affect the Company and its business. If any of the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K were to occur, the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the common stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to the Company's Business. The Company's success depends significantly on the Company's management team, and the loss of the Company's senior executive officers or other key employees and the Company's inability to recruit or retain suitable replacements could adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and growth prospects.. The Company's success depends significantly on the continued service and skills of the Company's existing executive management team. The implementation of the Company's business and growth strategies also depends significantly on the Company's ability to retain officers and employees with experience and business relationships within their respective market areas. The Company's ability to attract and retain key employees is dependent upon its compensation and benefits programs, continued growth and profitability, and reputation for rewarding and promoting qualified employees. The cost of employee compensation constitutes a significant portion of the Company's non-interest expense and can materially impact results of operations. The Company could have difficulty replacing departed officers and employees with persons who are experienced in the specialized aspects of the Company's business or who have ties to the communities within the Company's market areas. The unexpected loss of any of the Company's key personnel could therefore have an adverse impact on the Company's business and growth. The Company's continued success is dependent upon the ability of its executive management and the development of an appropriate succession plan for key officers.. Volatile market conditions and economic trends could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is operating in a dynamic and challenging economic environment, including uncertain global, national and local market conditions. In particular, Texas and Colorado based financial institutions are affected by volatility in the energy markets and the potential impact of that volatility on real estate and other markets. The Company is also subject to uncertain interest rate conditions. These volatile economic conditions could adversely affect borrowers and their businesses as well as the value of collateral (particularly real estate collateral) securing loans, which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operation.. The Company's business concentration in Texas and Colorado imposes risks and may magnify the adverse effects and consequences to the Company resulting from any regional or local economic downturn affecting Texas and Colorado.. The Company conducts its operations almost exclusively in Texas and Colorado. This geographic concentration imposes risks from lack of geographic diversification. The economic conditions in Texas affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects, where adverse economic developments, among other things, could affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of nonperforming assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses on loans and reduce the value of the Company's loans and loan servicing portfolio. Moreover, if the population or income growth in the Company's market areas is slower than projected, income levels, deposits and housing starts could be adversely affected and could result in a reduction of the Company's expansion, growth and profitability. While the Texas economy is more diversified than in the past, the energy sector has had, and is expected to continue to have, a significant impact on the overall Texas economy.  Any regional or local economic downturn that affects Texas or Colorado, or existing or prospective borrowers or property values in such areas, may affect the Company and the Company's profitability more significantly and more adversely than the Company's competitors whose operations are less geographically concentrated.. 14. If the Company does not effectively manage the Company's asset quality and credit risk, the Company would experience loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operation.. Making any loan involves risk, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and cash flows available to service debt, and risks resulting from changes in economic and market conditions. The Company's credit risk approval and monitoring procedures may fail to identify or reduce these credit risks, and they cannot completely eliminate all credit risks related to the Company's loan portfolio. The Company faces a variety of risk related to its types of loans. Adverse developments affecting commercial real estate values in the Company's market areas could increase the credit risk associated with commercial real estate loans, impair the value of the property pledged as collateral for these loans, and affect the Company's ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure without a loss. Further, due to the larger average size of commercial real estate loans, the Company faces risk that losses incurred on a small number of commercial real estate loans could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company's commercial real estate loans also have the risk that repayment is subject to the ongoing business operations of the borrower. The Company's commercial loans also have the risk that repayment is subject to the ongoing business operations of the borrower. Commercial loans are often secured by personal property, such as inventory, and intangible property, such as accounts receivable, which if the business is unsuccessful, typically have values insufficient to satisfy the loan without a loss. If the overall economic climate in the United States, generally, or the Company's market areas in Texas, specifically, experiences material disruption, the Company's borrowers may experience difficulties in repaying their loans, the collateral the Company holds may decrease in value or become illiquid, and the level of nonperforming loans, charge-offs and delinquencies could rise and require additional provisions for loan losses, which would cause the Company's net income and return on equity to decrease.. Negative changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity, and business operating conditions generally, could impair the repayment ability of borrowers and the value of collateral securing the Company's loans which would result in loan and other losses.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 82% of the Company's loan portfolio was comprised of loans with real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral, excluding agricultural loans secured by real estate. As a result, adverse developments affecting real estate values in the Company's market areas could increase the credit risk associated with the Company's real estate loan portfolio. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the area in which the real estate is located. Adverse changes affecting real estate values and the liquidity of real estate in one or more of the Company's markets could increase the credit risk associated with the Company's loan portfolio, and could result in losses that would adversely affect credit quality, financial condition, and results of operation. Negative changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity in the Company's market areas could significantly impair the value of property pledged as collateral on loans and affect the Company's ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure without a loss or additional losses. Collateral may have to be sold for less than the outstanding balance of the loan, which could result in losses on such loans. Such declines and losses would have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, results of operations and growth prospects. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that the Company would be required to increase the Company's allowance for loan losses, which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Adverse developments in the energy industry could have a negative effect on the Company's asset quality.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 1.7% of the Company's loan portfolio was composed of loans made to companies engaged in oil production and oilfield services. The significant decline in oil prices during 2015 adversely effected some of these borrowers' ability to repay these loans and impaired the value of collateral securing some of these loans. The Company experienced an increase in non-performing assets and loan loss provisions in 2015 and early 2016 primarily due to energy loans. Further, because energy is a material segment of the overall Texas economy, the decline and volatility in oil prices could have an impact on other segments of the Texas economy, including real estate. The Houston market economy in particular could be adversely affected. The Company's asset quality and results of operations could be adversely impacted by the direct and indirect effects of current and future conditions in the Texas energy industry.. The Company's small to medium-sized business customers may have fewer financial resources than larger entities to weather a downturn in the economy, which may impair a borrower's ability to repay a loan, and such impairment could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company focuses its business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources. 15. in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact the Dallas/North Texas, Austin/Central Texas, Houston and Colorado market areas in which the Company operates or the Texas or Colorado market generally and small to medium-sized businesses are adversely affected, the Company's results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected.. The Company's allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in the Company's loan portfolio, which may adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company establishes its allowance for loan losses and maintains it at a level considered adequate by management to absorb probable loan losses based on the Company's analysis of its portfolio and market environment. The allowance for loan losses represents the Company's estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is based upon relevant information available to the Company. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and credit undertakings that are not specifically identified. Additions to the allowance for loan losses, which are charged to earnings through the provision for loan losses, are determined based on a variety of factors, including an analysis of the loan portfolio, historical loss experience and an evaluation of current economic conditions in the Company's market areas. The actual amount of loan losses is affected by changes in economic, operating and other conditions within the Company's markets, as well as changes in the financial condition, cash flows, and operations of the Company's borrowers, all of which are beyond the Company's control, and such losses may exceed current estimates.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company's allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 0.62% and as a percentage of total nonperforming loans was 255.62%. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has previously experienced. The Company may be required to take additional provisions for loan losses in the future to further supplement the allowance for loan losses, either due to management's decision to do so or requirements by the Company's banking regulators. In addition, bank regulatory agencies will periodically review the Company's allowance for loan losses and the value attributed to nonaccrual loans or to real estate acquired through foreclosure. Such regulatory agencies may require the Company to recognize future charge-offs. These adjustments may adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the Company is not able to continue its historical levels of growth, it may not be able to maintain its historical earnings trends.. To achieve its past levels of growth, the Company has focused on both internal growth and acquisitions. The Company may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth or may not be able to grow at all. More specifically, the Company may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund additional growth and may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates. Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, may impede or prohibit the opening of new banking centers and the completion of acquisitions. Further, the Company may be unable to attract and retain experienced bankers, which could adversely affect its internal growth. If the Company is not able to continue its historical levels of growth, it may not be able to maintain its historical earnings trends.. The Company's strategy of pursuing acquisitions exposes the Company to financial, execution and operational risks that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The Company has been pursuing a growth strategy that includes the acquisition of other financial institutions in target markets. The Company has completed ten acquisitions since 2010, most recently completing the Carlile Bancshares, Inc. acquisition on April 1, 2017.  In addition, the Company announced the acquisition of Integrity Bancshares, Inc. (\"Integrity\") on November 28, 2017 and, absent delays, expects to close the Integrity acquisition during the second quarter of 2018. The Company intends to continue its acquisition strategy. Such an acquisition strategy, involves significant risks, including the following:. • finding suitable markets for expansion;. • finding suitable candidates for acquisition;. • attracting funding to support additional growth;. • maintaining asset quality;. • attracting and retaining qualified management; and. • maintaining adequate regulatory capital.. Accordingly, the Company may be unable to find suitable acquisition candidates in the future that fit its acquisition and growth strategy.. 16. Acquisitions of financial institutions also involve operational risks and uncertainties, and acquired companies may have unknown or contingent liabilities with no available manner of recourse, exposure to unexpected asset quality problems, key employee and customer retention problems and other problems that could negatively affect the Company's organization. The Company may not be able to complete future acquisitions or, if completed, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, management, products and services of the entities that the Company acquires and eliminate redundancies. The integration process may also require significant time and attention from the Company's management that they would otherwise direct toward servicing existing business and developing new business. Further, the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, disruption of the combined entity's ongoing business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the Company's ability to maintain relationships with customers or employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction. Failure to successfully integrate the entities the Company acquires into the Company's existing operations may increase the Company's operating costs significantly and adversely affect the Company's business and earnings.  Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values and, therefore, some dilution of the Company's tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction.. If the Company does not manage the Company's growth effectively, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be negatively affected, and the Company may not be able to continue to implement the Company's business strategy and successfully conduct the Company's operations.. The Company's proposed acquisition of Integrity may not be completed.. Completion of the acquisition of Integrity is subject to a number of conditions precedent, including shareholder and regulatory approval, as well as satisfaction of certain financial requirements applicable to Integrity. If the conditions precedent are not satisfied, or waived, the transaction would not be consummated.. Integrating Integrity Bank into Independent Bank's operations may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than the Company expects.. Independent Bank and Integrity Bank have operated and, until the merger is completed, will continue to operate, independently. Accordingly, the process of integrating Integrity Bank's operations into Independent Bank's operations could result in the disruption of operations, the loss of Integrity Bank customers and employees and make it more difficult to achieve the intended benefits of the merger. Inconsistencies between the standards, controls, procedures and policies of Independent Bank and those of Integrity Bank could adversely affect Independent Bank's ability to maintain relationships with current customers and employees of Integrity Bank if and when the merger is completed.. As with any merger of banking institutions, business disruptions may occur that may cause Independent Bank to lose customers or may cause Integrity Bank's customers to withdraw their deposits from Integrity Bank prior to the merger's consummation and from Independent Bank thereafter. The realization of the anticipated benefits of the merger may depend in large part on Independent's ability to integrate Integrity Bank's operations into Independent Bank's operations, and to address differences in business models and cultures. If the Company is unable to integrate the operations of Integrity and Integrity Bank into the Company's and Independent Bank's operations successfully and on a timely basis, some or all of the expected benefits of the merger may not be realized. Difficulties encountered with respect to such matters could result in an adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, capital, liquidity or cash flows of Independent Bank and the Company.. The Company may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated from the merger.. Although the Company anticipates that it would realize certain cost savings as to the operations of Integrity and Integrity Bank and otherwise from the merger if and when the operations of Integrity and Integrity Bank are fully integrated in the Company's and Independent Bank's operations, it is possible that the Company may not realize all of the cost savings that the Company has estimated it can realize from the merger. For example, for a variety of reasons, the Company may be required to continue to operate or maintain some facilities or support functions that are currently expected to be combined or reduced as a result of the merger. The Company's realization of the estimated cost savings also will depend on the Company's ability to combine the operations of the Company and Independent Bank with the operations of Integrity and Integrity Bank in a manner that permits those costs savings to be realized. If the Company is not able to integrate the operations of Integrity and Integrity Bank into the Company's and Independent Bank's operations successfully and to reduce the combined costs of conducting the integration operations of the two banks, the anticipated cost savings may not be fully realized, if at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. The Company's failure to realize those cost savings could materially adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations, capital, liquidity or cash flows.. 17. The completion of the Company's merger with Integrity would result in the immediate dilution of the Company's existing shareholders' ownership percentages in the Company's common stock and their voting power, which could adversely affect the market for the Company's common stock.. The merger of Integrity with and into the Company would result in the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of the Company's common stock. That issuance would result in the immediate dilution of the percentage ownership and voting power of the existing holders of the Company's common stock. Although the Company believes that the merger will be accretive to all of the Company's shareholders, factors associated with the consummation of the merger of Integrity with and into the Company, such as those discussed above, could adversely affect the market for the Company's common stock.. If the goodwill that the Company recorded in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could require charges to earnings, which would have a negative impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Goodwill represents the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeded the fair value of net assets that the Company acquired in connection with the purchase of another financial institution. The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset might be impaired.. The Company determines impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in the Company's results of operations in the periods in which they become known.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company's goodwill totaled $621.5 million. While the Company has not recorded any such impairment charges since the Company initially recorded the goodwill, there can be no assurance that the Company's future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in interest rates may reduce net interest income and otherwise negatively impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The majority of the Company's banking assets are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, the Company's earnings are significantly dependent on the Company's net interest income, the principal component of the Company's earnings, which is the difference between interest earned by the Company from the Company's interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest paid by the Company on the Company's interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The Company expects that it will periodically experience \"gaps\" in the interest rate sensitivities of the Company's assets and liabilities, meaning that either its interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than the Company's interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to the Company's position, this \"gap\" will negatively impact the Company's earnings. The impact on earnings is more adverse when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term interest rates or when long-term interest rates decrease more than short-term interest rates. Many factors impact interest rates, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply, and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets.. Interest rate increases often result in larger payment requirements for the Company's borrowers, which increase the potential for default. At the same time, the marketability of the property securing a loan may be adversely affected by any reduced demand resulting from higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on loans as borrowers refinance their loans at lower rates.. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans, securities and other assets. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and cash flows. Further, when the Company places a loan on nonaccrual status, the Company reverses any accrued but unpaid interest receivable, which decreases interest income. At the same time, the Company continues to have a cost to fund the loan, which is reflected as interest expense, without any interest income to offset the associated funding expense. Thus, an increase in the amount of nonperforming assets would have an adverse impact on net interest income.. 18. If short-term interest rates remain at their historically low levels for a prolonged period, and assuming longer term interest rates fall further, the Company could experience net interest margin compression as the Company's interest earning assets would continue to reprice downward while the Company's interest-bearing liability rates could fail to decline in tandem. Such an occurrence would have a material adverse effect on the Company's net interest income and the Company's results of operations.. The current interest rate environment has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect upon the Company's net interest income.. Interest rates, which remain largely at historically low levels, are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control such as general economic conditions and policies of the federal government, in particular the Federal Open Market Committee. In an attempt to help the overall economy, the FRB has kept interest rates low through its targeted Fed Funds rate. In December 2017, the FRB increased the Fed Funds rate by 75 basis points and indicates further increases during 2018, subject to economic conditions. As the FRB increases the Fed Funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the U.S. economic recovery. Further, changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence (i) the amount of interest the Company receives on loans and securities, (ii) the amount of interest the Company pays on deposits and borrowings, (iii) the Company's ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (iv) the fair value of the Company's assets and liabilities, and (v) the reinvestment risk associated with a reduced duration of the Company's mortgage-backed securities portfolio as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. When interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in net interest income.. Although management believes it has implemented an effective asset and liability management strategy to manage the potential effects of changes in interest rates, including the use of adjustable rate and/or short-term assets, and FHLB advances, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of the Company's operation and/or the Company's strategies may not always be successful in managing the risk associated with changes in interest rates.. The Company's accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting models.. The processes the Company uses to estimate its probable credit losses and to measure the fair value of financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on the Company's financial condition and results of operations, depend upon the use of analytical and forecasting models. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Even if these assumptions are accurate, the models may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation.. If the models the Company uses for interest rate risk and asset-liability management are inadequate, the Company may incur increased or unexpected losses upon changes in market interest rates or other market measures. If the models the Company uses for determining its probable credit losses are inadequate, the allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to support future charge-offs. If the models the Company uses to measure the fair value of financial instruments is inadequate, the fair value of such financial instruments may fluctuate unexpectedly or may not accurately reflect what the Company could realize upon sale or settlement of such financial instruments. Any such failure in the Company's analytical or forecasting models could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company could recognize losses on securities held in the Company's securities portfolio, particularly if interest rates increase or economic and market conditions deteriorate.. While the Company attempts to invest a significant percentage of its assets in loans (the Company's loan to deposit ratio was 97.6% as of December 31, 2017), the Company invests a percentage of its total assets (approximately 8.8% as of December 31, 2017) in investment securities as part of its overall liquidity strategy.  As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of the Company's securities portfolio was approximately $763.0 million.. 19. Factors beyond the Company's control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in its portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. For example, fixed-rate securities are generally subject to decreases in market value when market interest rates rise. Additional factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or individual borrowers with respect to the underlying securities, and continued instability in the credit markets. Any of the foregoing factors could cause an other-than-temporary impairment in future periods and result in realized losses. The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting market interest rates, the financial condition of issuers of the securities and the performance of the underlying collateral, the Company may recognize realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. A lack of liquidity could adversely affect the Company's operations and jeopardize the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity is essential to the Company's business. The Company relies on its ability to generate deposits and effectively manage the repayment and maturity schedules of the Company's loans and investment securities, respectively, to ensure that the Company has adequate liquidity to fund the Company's operations. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of the Company's investment securities, Federal Home Loan Bank advances, the sale of loans, and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on the Company's liquidity. The Company's most important source of funds consists of deposits. Deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, the Company would lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing the Company's funding costs and reducing the Company's net interest income and net income.. Other primary sources of funds consist of cash flows from operations, investment maturities and sales of investment securities, and proceeds from the issuance and sale of the Company's equity and debt securities to investors. Additional liquidity is provided by the ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank and the Federal Home Loan Bank. The Company also may borrow funds from third-party lenders, such as other financial institutions. The Company's access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize the Company's activities, or on terms that are acceptable to the Company, could be impaired by factors that affect the Company directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry.. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact the Company's ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet the Company's expenses, pay dividends to the Company's shareholders, or to fulfill obligations such as repaying the Company's borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future, and if the Company fails to maintain sufficient capital, whether due to losses, an inability to raise additional capital, growth or otherwise, the Company's financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as the Company's ability to maintain regulatory compliance, would be adversely affected.. The Company faces significant capital and other regulatory requirements as a financial institution. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide the Company with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet the Company's commitments and business needs, which could include the possibility of financing acquisitions. In addition, the Company, on a consolidated basis, and Independent Bank, on a stand-alone basis, must meet certain regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. The Company faces significant capital and other regulatory requirements as a financial institution. The Company's ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry, market conditions and governmental activities, and on the Company's financial condition and performance. In the future, the Company may not be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to the Company. If the Company fails to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, the Company's financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. The Company faces strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services, which could harm the Company's business.. The Company conducts its operations almost exclusively in Texas and Colorado. Many of the Company's competitors offer the same, or a wider variety of, banking services within the Company's market areas. These competitors include banks with. 20. nationwide operations, regional banks and other community banks. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In addition, a number of out-of-state financial intermediaries have opened production offices, or otherwise solicit deposits, in the Company's market areas. Increased competition in the Company's markets may result in reduced loans and deposits, as well as reduced net interest margin and profitability. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If the Company is unable to attract and retain banking customers, the Company may be unable to continue to grow its loan and deposit portfolios, and the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. The Company has a continuing need for technological change, and the Company may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology, or the Company may experience operational challenges when implementing new technology.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company's future success will depend in part upon the Company's ability to address the needs of the Company's customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company's operations as it continues to grow and expand the Company's market area. The Company may experience operational challenges as it implements these new technology enhancements or products, which could result in the Company not fully realizing the anticipated benefits from such new technology or require the Company to incur significant costs to remedy any such challenges in a timely manner.. Many of the Company's larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. In addition, the rise of \"FinTech\" entities presents an additional group of competitors which provide financial services through new electronic delivery systems. As a result, these competitors may be able to offer additional or superior products to those that the Company will be able to provide, which would put the Company at a competitive disadvantage. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to its customers.. System failure or cybersecurity breaches of the Company's network security could subject the Company to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities.. The computer systems and network infrastructure the Company uses could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. The Company's operations are dependent upon its ability to protect its computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from cybersecurity breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes breakdowns or disruptions in the Company's customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems could damage the Company's reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Computer break-ins, phishing and other cybersecurity disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the Company's computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to the Company and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with the Company. In addition, advances in computer capabilities could result in a compromise or breach of the systems the Company and the Company's third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may be materially and adversely affected by the creditworthiness and liquidity of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional customers. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or customer. In addition, the Company's credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. 21. The Company's operations could be interrupted if the Company's third-party service providers experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking regulations.. The Company depends on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Specifically, the Company receives core systems processing, essential web hosting and other Internet systems, deposit processing and other processing services from third-party service providers. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties, or terminate their services, and the Company is unable to replace them with other service providers, particularly on a timely basis, the Company's operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. Even if the Company is able to replace third party service providers, it may be at a higher cost to the Company, which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors.. Employee errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject the Company to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm the Company's reputation. Misconduct by the Company's employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from the Company, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of the Company's customers or improper use of confidential information. Customers are also subject to financial crimes, including fraud, wire fraud, and cyber-crimes, which could adversely impact their ability to pay loans or result in a fraudulent removal of funds from their deposit accounts. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, or fraudulent schemes impacting customers, and the precautions the Company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject the Company to financial claims for negligence.. The Company maintains a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. If the Company's internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the Company relies heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in credit applications, property appraisals, title information, equipment pricing and valuation and employment and income documentation, in deciding which loans the Company will originate, as well as the terms of those loans. If any of the information upon which the Company relies is misrepresented, either fraudulently or inadvertently, and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to asset funding, the value of the asset may be significantly lower than expected, or the Company may fund a loan that the Company would not have funded or on terms the Company would not have extended. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the applicant or another third party, the Company generally bears the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsellable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. The sources of the misrepresentations are often difficult to locate, and it is often difficult to recover any of the monetary losses that the Company may suffer.. Natural disasters, severe weather events, worldwide hostilities, including terrorist attacks, and other external events may adversely affect the general economy, the financial services industry, the industries of customers, and the Company.. Natural disasters, severe weather events, including those prominent in Texas and Colorado and those prominent in the geographic areas of vendors and business partners, together with worldwide hostilities, including terrorist attacks, and other external events could have a significant impact on the Company's ability to conduct business. These events could also affect the stability of the Company's deposit base, borrowers' ability to repay loans, impair collateral, result in a loss of revenue or an increase in expenses. Although the Company has established disaster recovery and business continuity procedures and plans, the occurrence of any such event may adversely affect the Company's business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, earthquakes and other natural disasters and severe weather events have caused, and in the future may cause, widespread property damage and significantly and negatively affect the local economies in which the Company operates. For example, in late August 2017, Hurricane Harvey, a Category 4 hurricane, caused catastrophic flooding and unprecedented damage to residences and businesses across Southeast Texas, including Houston. The Company currently operates 10 banking centers in the greater Houston area. The effect of Hurricane Harvey, and other catastrophic weather events if they were to occur, could have a materially adverse impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and business, as well as potentially increase the Company's exposure to credit losses and liquidity risks.. 22. New lines of business or new products and services may subject the Company to additional risks.. From time to time, the Company may implement or may acquire new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company's system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Legal and regulatory proceedings could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operation.. The Company, like all financial institutions, has been and may in the future become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings. The Company considers most of these proceedings to be in the normal course of business or typical for the industry. However, it is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of these matters. Any material legal or regulatory proceeding could impose substantial cost and cause management to divert its attention from the Company's business and operations. Any adverse determination in a legal or regulatory proceeding could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is subject to claims and litigation pertaining to intellectual property from time to time.. Banking and other financial services companies, such as the Company, rely on technology companies to provide information technology products and services necessary to support the Company's day-to-day operations. Technology companies frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. Competitors of the Company's vendors, or other individuals or companies, have from time to time claimed to hold intellectual property sold to the Company by its vendors. Such claims may increase in the future as the financial services sector becomes more reliant on information technology vendors. The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages.. Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or other intellectual property rights, or the merits of any claims by potential or actual litigants, the Company may have to engage in protracted litigation. Such litigation is often expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to the Company's operations and distracting to management. If the Company is found to infringe one or more patents or other intellectual property rights, it may be required to pay substantial damages or royalties to a third-party. In certain cases, the Company may consider entering into licensing agreements for disputed intellectual property, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These licenses may also significantly increase the Company's operating expenses. If legal matters related to intellectual property claims were resolved against the Company or settled, the Company could be required to make payments in amounts that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company could experience claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility.. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company's performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Company's performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability, adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services and/or impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. 23. The Company could be subject to environmental risks and associated costs on the Company's foreclosed real estate assets, which could materially and adversely affect the Company.. A significant portion of the Company's loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit the Company's ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company's exposure to environmental liability. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Company's largest shareholder, and certain other officers and directors of the Company, are business partners in business ventures in addition to the Company, which creates potential conflicts of interest and corporate governance issues.. Messrs. David Brooks, Viola, Cifu, and Daniel Brooks are partners in Himalayan Ventures, LP, a real estate investment partnership. A dispute between these individuals in connection with this business venture outside of the Company could impact their relationship at the Company and, because of their prominence within the Company, the Company itself.. Risks Related to an Investment in the Company's Common Stock. The Company's stock can be volatile.. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive.  The Company's stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:. • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations;. • recommendations by securities analysts;. • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company;. • new reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry;. • perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors;. • new technology used, or services offered, by competitors;. • significant acquisitions or business combinations involving the Company or its competitors;. • the public float and trading volumes for the Company's common stock;. • changes in government regulations, including tax laws; and. • volatility in economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, disruption in energy markets and changes in the global economy.. In addition, although the Company's common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the trading volume of the Company's common stock is less than that of other, larger financial institutions. Given the lower trading volume, significant sales of Company common stock, or the expectation of such sales, could cause the stock price to fall.. The Company is dependent upon Independent Bank for cash flow, and Independent Bank's ability to make cash distributions is restricted.. The Company's primary tangible asset is Independent Bank. As such, the Company depends upon Independent Bank for cash distributions (through dividends on Independent Bank's stock) that the Company uses to pay the Company's operating expenses, satisfy the Company's obligations (including the Company's senior indebtedness, subordinated debentures, and junior subordinated indebtedness issued in connection with trust preferred securities), and to pay dividends on the Company's common stock and preferred stock. There are numerous laws and banking regulations that limit Independent Bank's ability to pay dividends to the Company. If Independent Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company will not be able to satisfy the Company's obligations or pay dividends on the Company's common stock and preferred stock. Federal and state statutes and regulations restrict Independent Bank's ability to make cash distributions to the Company. These statutes and regulations require, among other things, that Independent Bank maintain certain levels of capital in order to pay a dividend. Further, state and federal banking authorities have the ability to restrict the payment of dividends by supervisory action.. 24. The Company's dividend policy may change without notice, and the Company's future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions.. The Company may change its dividend policy at any time without notice to the Company's shareholders. Holders of the Company's common stock are entitled to receive only such dividends as the Company's board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Any declaration and payment of dividends on preferred stock and common stock will depend upon the Company's earnings and financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements, the general economic and regulatory climate, the Company's ability to service any equity or debt obligations senior to the preferred stock and, ultimately, the common stock and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors. Furthermore, consistent with the Company's strategic plans, growth initiatives, capital availability, projected liquidity needs, and other factors, the Company has made, and will continue to make, capital management decisions and policies that could adversely impact the amount of dividends, if any, paid to the Company's common shareholders.. The Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy in relation to the organization's overall asset quality, level of current and prospective earnings and level, composition and quality of capital. The guidance provides that the Company inform and consult with the Federal Reserve prior to declaring and paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid or that could result in an adverse change to the Company's capital structure, including interest on senior debt, subordinated debt and the subordinated debentures underlying the Company's trust preferred securities. If required payments on the Company's outstanding senior debt, subordinated debt and junior subordinated debentures, held by its unconsolidated subsidiary trusts, are not made or are suspended, the Company would be prohibited from paying dividends on its common stock.. The Company's largest shareholder and board of directors have historically controlled, and in the future may continue to be able to control, the Company.. Collectively, as of February 26, 2018, Messrs. Vincent Viola and David Brooks owned 18.8% of the Company's outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. Vincent Viola, the largest shareholder of the Company, currently owns 15.6% of the Company's outstanding common stock, and David Brooks, the Company's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, currently owns 3.2% of the Company's common stock, each calculated on a fully diluted basis. Further, as of the date hereof, the Company's other directors and executive officers currently own collectively approximately 15% of the Company's outstanding common stock. As a result, these individuals exert controlling influence in the Company's management and policies. Further, given the large ownership position of these individuals, it will be difficult for any other shareholder to elect members to the Company's board of directors or otherwise influence the Company's management or direction.. In addition, two of the Company's directors have close professional and personal ties to Vincent Viola, the Company's largest shareholder. Doug Cifu is the Chief Executive Officer of Virtu Financial, LLC, Mr. Viola's primary operating entity; and Michael Viola is the son of Vincent Viola. Further, David Brooks, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has a 30 year history of ownership and operation of Independent Bank with Vincent Viola; and he has joint investments with Mr. Viola outside of the Company. Given these close relationships, even though he does not serve on the Company's board, Mr. Viola has and will continue to have a large influence over the direction and operation of the Company.. The Company's corporate organizational documents and the provisions of Texas law to which the Company is subject contain certain provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, make more difficult or prevent an attempted acquisition of the Company that you may favor.. The Company's certificate of formation and bylaws contain various provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of the Company. These provisions include the following:. • staggered terms for directors;. • a provision that directors cannot be removed except for cause;. • a provision that any special meeting of the Company's shareholders may be called only by a majority of the Company's board of directors, the Chairman or a holder or group of holders of at least 20% of the Company's shares entitled to vote at such special meeting;. • a provision that requires the vote of two-thirds of the shares outstanding for major corporate actions, such as an amendment to the Company's certificate of formation or bylaws or the approval of a merger; and. • a provision establishing certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered only at an annual or special meeting of shareholders.. 25. The Company's certificate of formation provides for noncumulative voting for directors and authorizes the board of directors to issue shares of its preferred stock without shareholder approval and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The issuance of the Company's preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, financings and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a controlling interest in the Company. In addition, certain provisions of Texas law, including a provision which restricts certain business combinations between a Texas corporation and certain affiliated shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of the Company. Also, the Company's certificate of formation prohibits shareholder action by written consent.. The holders of the Company's debt obligations and any shares of the Company's preferred stock that may be outstanding in the future will have priority over the Company's common stock with respect to payment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up and with respect to the payment of interest and preferred dividends.. In the event of any winding up and termination of the Company, the Company common stock would rank below all claims of the holders of the Company's debt and any preferred stock then outstanding.  The Company has a senior, revolving credit facility under which the Company may borrow up to $50 million.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company currently had not drawn upon this credit facility. Further, as of December 31, 2017, the Company had outstanding. • $140.0 million of aggregate principal amount of subordinated indebtedness; and. • $31.6 million of subordinated debentures issued in connection with trust preferred securities. Upon the winding up and termination of the Company, holders of the Company's common stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets until after all of the Company's obligations to the Company's debt holders have been satisfied and holders of the Company's senior debt, subordinated debt, and junior subordinated debentures issued in connection with trust preferred securities have received any payments and other distributions due to them. In addition, the Company is required to pay interest on the Company's senior debt, subordinated debt and subordinated debentures and junior subordinated debentures issued in connection with the Company's trust preferred securities before the Company pays any dividends on the Company's common stock. Furthermore, the Company's board of directors may also, in its sole discretion, designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock from the Company's authorized and unissued preferred stock, which may have preferences with respect to common stock in dissolution, dividends, liquidation or otherwise.. An investment in the Company's common stock is not an insured deposit and is not guaranteed by the FDIC, so you could lose some or all of your investment.. An investment in the Company's common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss or guaranteed by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. An investment in the Company's common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this report and shareholders who acquire the Company's common stock could lose some or all of their investment.. Risks Related to the Business Environment and the Company's Industry. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, is subject to extensive regulation and supervision.. The Company and Independent Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not the Company's shareholders. These regulations affect the Company's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on the Company, Independent Bank and their respective operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Additional legislation and regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could significantly affect the Company's powers, authority and operations, or the powers, authority and operations of Independent Bank in substantial and unpredictable ways. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power could have a negative impact on the. 26. Company. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or the CFPB, with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority, including the authority to prohibit unfair, deceptive, and abusive acts and practices. Compliance with the CFPB rules required changes to the Company's underwriting practices with respect to mortgage loans, and has resulted in increased regulatory compliance costs. These rules may subject the Company to increased potential liabilities related to residential mortgage lending activities.. With the Company approaching $10 billion in consolidated assets following the Carlile acquisition, management is beginning to prepare for satisfying the stress testing requirements contained in the Dodd-Frank Act (\"DFAST\"). DFAST stress testing is designed to evaluate the Company's capital and liquidity planning. The Company expects to incur significant expense in analyzing its current capital planning systems, implementing new data gathering systems and expanding its regulatory compliance and financial staff to satisfy the DFAST stress testing requirements. These costs and expenses will adversely impact the Company's earnings. Further, uncertainties regarding how the financial models created pursuant to this requirement will respond to the regulatory scenarios issued annually, and how the regulators will evaluate the Company's report of the results obtained through the stress testing process, subject the Company to risk when and if the Company becomes subject to DFAST and as the standards for DFAST evolve. Any change to the Company's DFAST stress testing practices or any additional capital required by regulators in connection with the DFAST requirements may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, the Company's earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits.. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The Company cannot predict the effects of such policies upon the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Federal Reserve may require the Company to commit capital resources to support Independent Bank.. The Federal Reserve, which examines the Company and Independent Bank, requires a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the \"source of strength\" doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the federal bank regulators to require that all companies that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution serve as a source of strength for the institution. Under these requirements, in the future, the Company could be required to provide financial assistance to Independent Bank if it experiences financial distress.. A capital injection may be required at times when the Company does not have the resources to provide it, and therefore the Company may be required to borrow the funds. In the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the holding company's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and will adversely impact the holding company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 27. Federal banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of the Company's business, including compliance with laws and regulations, and the Company's failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which the Company becomes subject as a result of such examinations could materially and adversely affect the Company.. Texas and federal banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of the Company's business, including compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a Texas or federal banking agency were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of the Company's operations had become unsatisfactory, or that the Company or its management was in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in the Company's capital, to restrict the Company's growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against Independent Bank, the Company's officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate the Company's deposit insurance. If the Company becomes subject to such regulatory actions, the Company could be materially and adversely affected.. The Company may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit insurance assessments in the future, which could materially and adversely affect the Company.. Previous economic conditions and the Dodd-Frank Act caused the FDIC to increase deposit insurance assessments and may result in increased assessments in the future. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule that amended the Deposit Insurance Fund restoration plan and implemented certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Effective April 1, 2011, the assessment base is determined using average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity rather than the previous assessment base of adjusted domestic deposits.  The final rule also provides the FDIC's board with the flexibility to adopt actual rates that are higher or lower than the total base assessment rates adopted on February 7, 2011 without notice and comment, if certain conditions are met. An increase in the assessment rates could materially and adversely affect the Company.. The Company faces a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, or Patriot Act, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain effective anti-money laundering programs and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the Treasury to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. If the Company's policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that the Company has already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, the Company would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on the Company's ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of the Company's business plan (including the Company's acquisition plans), which would negatively impact the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for the Company.. There are substantial regulatory limitations on changes of control of bank holding companies.. With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or a group of persons deemed to be \"acting in concert\" from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 10% (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of the Company's voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of the Company's directors or otherwise direct the management or policies of the Company without prior notice or application to and the approval of the Federal Reserve. Accordingly, prospective investors need to be aware of and comply with these requirements, if applicable, in connection with any such purchase of shares of the Company's common stock. These provisions effectively inhibit certain mergers or other business combinations, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock. 28"
