[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. We have a substantial amount of debt outstanding, which may limit our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, limit our flexibility in responding to business opportunities and competitive developments and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions and changes in our debt rating.. On December 1, 2016, the Company entered into an amended and restated senior secured credit facility comprised of a $110.0 million term loan facility and a $30.0 million revolving credit facility, amending and restating the senior secured credit facility entered into on May 3, 2015 (\"Amended and Restated Credit Agreement\").  Each of the term loan facility and revolving credit facility has a maturity date of December 1, 2021 (\"Maturity Date\").  The Term Loan is repayable in four consecutive quarterly installments of $1,375,000 each, commencing March 31, 2017, followed by eight consecutive quarterly installments in the amount of $2,062,500 each, commencing March 31, 2018, followed by seven consecutive quarterly installments of $2,750,000 each, commencing March 31, 2020 and a final payment of the outstanding principal amount of the Term Loan on the Maturity Date.  As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with the debt obligations, we expect that:. <U+F0B7>a decrease in revenues will result in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings;. <U+F0B7>we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed costs if our revenues decline or costs increase;. <U+F0B7>we may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed costs instead of funding general corporate requirements, including capital expenditures;. <U+F0B7>we may not have sufficient liquidity to respond to business opportunities, competitive developments and adverse economic conditions; and. 13. Table of Contents. <U+F0B7>our results of operations will be adversely affected if interest rates increase because, based on our current outstanding borrowings in the amount of $109.5 million, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a pre - tax impact on earnings of approximately $1.1 million per year.. These debt obligations may also impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business. Our indebtedness under the senior secured revolving credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, leaving us with limited collateral for additional financing. Moreover, the terms of our indebtedness under the senior secured revolving credit facility restrict our ability to take certain actions, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness, mergers and acquisitions, investments and asset sales. Our ability to pay the fixed costs associated with our debt obligations will depend on our operating performance and cash flow, which in turn depend on general economic conditions and the advisory services market. A failure to pay interest or indebtedness when due could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness.  In such a situation, it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our obligations under or repay the accelerated indebtedness or otherwise cover our fixed costs. As of December 31, 2017, the total principal outstanding under the term loan facility and revolving credit facility was $104.5 million and $5.0 million, respectively.. Our failure to comply with the covenants in our credit agreement could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity.. Our credit agreement contains financial covenants requiring that we maintain, among other things, certain levels of debt coverage and fixed charges. Poor financial performance could cause us to be in default of these covenants.  While we were in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2017, there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance in the future.  If we fail to comply with the covenants in our credit agreement, this could result in our having to seek an amendment or waiver from our lenders to avoid the termination of their commitments and/or the acceleration of the maturity of outstanding amounts under the credit facility.  The cost of our obtaining an amendment or waiver could be significant, and further, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain an amendment or waiver. If our lenders were unwilling to enter into an amendment or provide a waiver, all amounts outstanding under our credit facility would become immediately due and payable.. We have risks associated with acquisitions or investments.. Since our inception, we have expanded through acquisitions. In the future, we plan to pursue additional acquisitions and investments as opportunities arise.  We may not be able to successfully integrate businesses that we have acquired, or may acquire in the future without substantial expense, delays or other operational or financial problems. We may not be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses.  If we pursue acquisition or investment opportunities, these potential risks could disrupt our ongoing business, result in the loss of key customers or personnel, increase expenses and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Difficulties in integrating businesses we have acquired, or may acquire in the future may demand time and attention from our senior management.. Integrating businesses we have acquired, or may acquire in the future may involve unanticipated delays, costs and/or other operational and financial problems. In integrating acquired businesses, we may not achieve expected economies of scale or profitability, or realize sufficient revenue to justify our investment.  If we encounter unexpected problems as we try to integrate an acquired firm into our business, our management may. 14. Table of Contents. be required to expend time and attention to address the problems, which would divert their time and attention from other aspects of our business.. Our operating results have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by worldwide economic conditions and credit tightening.. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. A decline in the level of business activity of our clients could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profit margin.  Future economic conditions could cause some clients to reduce or defer their expenditures for consulting services. We have implemented and will continue to implement cost - savings initiatives to manage our expenses as a percentage of revenue. However, current and future cost - management initiatives may not be sufficient to maintain our margins if the economic environment should weaken for a prolonged period.. The rate of growth in the broadly defined business information services & advisory sector and/or the use of technology in business may fall significantly below the levels that we currently anticipate.. Our business is dependent upon continued growth in sourcing activity, the use of technology in business by our clients and prospective clients and the continued trend towards sourcing of complex information technology and business process tasks by large and small organizations. If sourcing diminishes as a management and operational tool, the growth in the use of technology slows down or the cost of sourcing alternatives rises, our business could suffer. Companies that have already invested substantial resources in developing in - house information technology and business process functions may be particularly reluctant or slow to move to a sourcing solution that may make some of their existing personnel and infrastructure obsolete.. Our engagements may be terminated, delayed or reduced in scope by clients at any time.. Our clients may decide at any time to abandon, postpone and/or to reduce our involvement in an engagement.  Our engagements can be terminated, or the scope of our responsibilities may be diminished, with limited advance notice. If an engagement is terminated, delayed or reduced unexpectedly, the professionals working on the engagement could be underutilized until we assign them to other projects. Accordingly, the termination or significant reduction in the scope of a single large engagement, or multiple smaller engagements, could harm our business results.. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period as a result of factors outside of our control.. We expect our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from accounting period to accounting period due to factors including:. <U+F0B7>fluctuations in revenues earned on contracts;. <U+F0B7>commencement, completion or termination of engagements during any particular period;. <U+F0B7>additions and departures of key advisors;. <U+F0B7>transitioning of advisors from completed projects to new engagements;. <U+F0B7>seasonal trends;. 15. Table of Contents. <U+F0B7>introduction of new services by us or our competitors;. <U+F0B7>changes in fees, pricing policies or compensation arrangements by us or our competitors;. <U+F0B7>strategic decisions by us, our clients or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin - offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy;. <U+F0B7>global economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and. <U+F0B7>conditions in the travel industry that could prevent our advisors from traveling to client sites.. We depend on project - based advisory engagements, and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues.. Advisory engagements typically are project - based. Our ability to attract advisory engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following:. <U+F0B7>delivering consistent, high - quality advisory services to our clients;. <U+F0B7>tailoring our advisory services to the changing needs of our clients;. <U+F0B7>matching the skills and competencies of our advisory staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential advisory engagements; and. <U+F0B7>maintaining a global business operation.. Any material decline in our ability to secure new advisory arrangements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and financial condition.. If we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization for our consultants, our operating results could be adversely impacted.. Our profitability depends to a large extent on the utilization of our consultants. Utilization of our consultants is affected by a number of factors, including:. <U+F0B7>additional hiring of consultants because there is generally a transition period for new consultants;. <U+F0B7>the number and size of client engagements;. <U+F0B7>the unpredictability of the completion and termination of engagements;. <U+F0B7>our ability to transition our consultants efficiently from completed engagements to new engagements;. <U+F0B7>unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; and. <U+F0B7>our ability to maintain an appropriate level of consultants by forecasting the demand for our services.. We could lose money on our fixed - fee contracts.. As part of our strategy, from time to time, we enter into fixed fee contracts, in addition to contracts based on payment for time and materials. Because of the complexity of many of our client engagements,. 16. Table of Contents. accurately estimating the cost, scope and duration of a particular engagement can be a difficult task. If we fail to make accurate estimates, we could be forced to devote additional resources to these engagements for which we will not receive additional compensation. To the extent that an expenditure of additional resources is required on an engagement, this could reduce the profitability of, or result in a loss on, the engagement.. Our contracts with contingent-based revenue may cause unusual variations in our operating results.. As part of our strategy, from time to time, we earn incremental revenues, in addition to hourly or fixed fee billings, which are contingent on the attainment of certain contractual milestones or objectives.  Because it is uncertain when the milestones or objectives will be achieved, if ever, any such incremental revenues may cause unusual variations in quarterly revenues and operating results.  Also, whether any contractual milestones or objectives are achieved may become subject to dispute.. We may not be able to maintain our existing services and products.. We operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality advice and analysis to our clients. Any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information and advice that is useful to our clients could have a significant adverse effect on future business and operating results. Further, if our advice proves to be materially incorrect and the quality of service is diminished, our reputation may suffer and demand for our services and products may decline. In addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost - effective manner.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely.. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to:. <U+F0B7>future announcements concerning us or our competitors;. <U+F0B7>quarterly fluctuations in operating results;. <U+F0B7>announcements of acquisitions or technological innovations;. <U+F0B7>changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by analysts; or. <U+F0B7>current market volatility.. In addition, the stock prices of many business and technology services companies fluctuate widely for reasons which may be unrelated to operating results. Fluctuation in the market price of our common stock may impact our ability to finance our operations and retain personnel.. 17. Table of Contents. Expanding our service offerings may not be profitable.. We may choose to develop new service offerings because of market opportunities or client demands. Developing new service offerings involves inherent risks, including:. <U+F0B7>a lack of market understanding;. <U+F0B7>competition from more established market participants;. <U+F0B7>our inability to estimate demand for the new service offerings; and. <U+F0B7>unanticipated expenses to hire qualified consultants and to market our new service offerings.. If we cannot manage the risks associated with new service offerings effectively, we are unlikely to be successful in these efforts, which could harm our ability to sustain profitability.. We may not have the ability to develop and offer the new services and products that we need to remain competitive.. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to offer new services and products. To maintain our competitive position, we must continue to enhance and improve our services and products, develop or acquire new services and products in a timely manner, and appropriately position and price new services and products relative to the marketplace and our costs of producing them. These new services and products must successfully gain market acceptance by addressing specific industry and business sectors and by anticipating and identifying changes in client requirements.  The process of researching, developing, launching and gaining client acceptance of a new service or product, or assimilating and marketing an acquired service or product is risky and costly. We may not be able to introduce new, or assimilate acquired, services and products successfully.  Any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new services and products could have an adverse effect on our business results.. We may fail to anticipate and respond to market trends.. Our success depends in part upon our ability to anticipate rapidly changing technologies and market trends and to adapt our advice, services and products to meet the changing sourcing advisory needs of our clients. Our clients regularly undergo frequent and often dramatic changes.  That environment of rapid and continuous change presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our clients with current and timely analysis, strategies and advice on issues of importance to them. Meeting these challenges requires the commitment of substantial resources.  Any failure to continue to respond to developments, technologies, and trends in a manner that meets market needs could have an adverse effect on our business results.. We may be unable to protect important intellectual property rights.. We rely on copyright and trademark laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality arrangements, to protect our proprietary rights in our methods of performing our services, our data and our tools for analyzing financial and other information.  There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our rights or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take timely and effective steps to enforce our rights.  If substantial and material unauthorized uses of our proprietary methodologies, data and analytical tools were to occur, we may be required to engage in costly and time - consuming litigation to enforce our rights.  There can be no assurance that we would. 18. Table of Contents. prevail in such litigation. If others were able to use our intellectual property or were to independently develop our methodologies or analytical tools, our ability to compete effectively and to charge appropriate fees for our services may be adversely affected.. We face competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The business information services and advisory sector is highly competitive, fragmented and subject to rapid change. We face competition from many other providers ranging from large organizations to small firms and independent contractors that provide specialized services. Our competitors include any firm that provides sourcing or benchmarking advisory services, IT strategy or business process consulting, which may include a variety of consulting firms, service providers, niche advisors and, potentially, advisors currently or formerly employed by us. Some of our competitors have significantly more financial and marketing resources, larger professional staffs, closer client relationships, broader geographic presence or more widespread recognition than us.. In addition, limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. As a result, additional new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. Furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of advice and analysis, timely delivery of information, client service or the ability to offer services and products to meet changing market needs for information, analysis or price.. The loss of key executives could adversely affect our business.. The success of our business is dependent upon the continued service of a relatively small group of key executives, including Mr. Connors, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mr. Berger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer; and Mr. Kucinski, Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, among others.. Although we currently intend to retain our existing management, we cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future.  The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these executives could adversely affect our business.. We rely heavily on key members of our management team.. We are dependent on our management team. We grant restricted stock units (\"RSUs\") from time to time to key employees and, in connection with such grants, require recipients to execute a restrictive covenant agreement. Vested and unvested RSUs will be forfeited upon any violation of the restrictive covenant agreement. We may not be able to retain these managers and may not be able to enforce the restrictive covenants. If we were to lose a number of key members of our management team and were unable to replace these people quickly, we could have difficulty maintaining our growth and certain key relationships with large clients and face competition from these former managers if the restrictive covenants are unenforceable.. 19. Table of Contents. We depend upon our ability to attract, retain and train skilled advisors and other professionals.. Our business involves the delivery of advisory and consulting services. Therefore, our continued success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate, retain and train skilled advisors and other professionals who have advanced information technology and business processing domain expertise, financial analysis skills, project management experience and other similar abilities.  These advisors could resign and join one of our competitors or provide sourcing advisory services to our clients through their own ventures.. We must also recruit staff globally to support our services and products. We face competition for the limited pool of these qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. Some of the personnel that we attempt to hire may be subject to non - compete agreements that could impede our short - term recruitment efforts.  Any failure to retain key personnel or hire and train additional qualified personnel as required supporting the evolving needs of clients or growth in our business could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, and our future business and operating results.. We may have agreements with certain clients that limit the ability of particular advisors to work on some engagements for a period of time.. We provide services primarily in connection with significant or complex sourcing transactions and other matters that provide potential competitive advantage and/or involve sensitive client information. Our engagement by a client occasionally precludes us from staffing certain advisors on new engagements with other clients because the advisors have received confidential information from a client who is a competitor of the new client.  Furthermore, it is possible that our engagement by a client could preclude us from accepting engagements with such client's competitors because of confidentiality concerns.. In many industries in which we provide advisory services, there has been a trend toward business consolidations and strategic alliances that could limit the pool of potential clients.. Consolidations and alliances reduce the number of potential clients for our services and products and may increase the chances that we will be unable to continue some of our ongoing engagements or secure new engagements. When companies consolidate, overlapping services previously purchased separately are usually purchased only once by the combined entity, leading to loss of revenue.  Other services that were previously purchased by one of the merged or consolidated entities may be deemed unnecessary or cancelled. If our clients consolidate with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. There can be no assurance as to the degree to which we may be able to address the revenue impact of such consolidation. Any of these developments could harm our operating results and financial condition.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our largest clients and could be materially and adversely affected if we lose one or more of our large clients.. Our 25 largest clients accounted for approximately 39% of revenue in 2017 and 38% in 2016. If one or more of our large clients terminate or significantly reduce their engagements or fail to remain a viable business, then our revenues could be materially and adversely affected.  In addition, sizable receivable balances could be jeopardized if large clients fail to remain a going concern.. 20. Table of Contents. Our international operations expose us to a variety of risks that could negatively impact our future revenue and growth.. Approximately 40% and 46% of our revenues for 2017 and 2016 were derived from sales outside of the Americas, respectively.  Our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including:. <U+F0B7>tariffs and trade barriers;. <U+F0B7>regulations related to customs and import/export matters;. <U+F0B7>restrictions on entry visas required for our advisors to travel and provide services;. <U+F0B7>tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States;. <U+F0B7>cultural and language differences;. <U+F0B7>an inadequate banking system;. <U+F0B7>foreign exchange controls;. <U+F0B7>restrictions on the repatriation of profits or payment of dividends;. <U+F0B7>crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars;. <U+F0B7>nationalization or expropriation of property;. <U+F0B7>law enforcement authorities and courts that are inexperienced in commercial matters; and. <U+F0B7>deterioration of political relations with the United States.. Air travel, telecommunications and entry through international borders are all vital components of our business.  If a terrorist attack were to occur, our business could be disproportionately impacted because of the disruption a terrorist attack causes on these vital components.. Further, conducting business abroad subjects us to increased regulatory compliance and oversight. For example, in connection with our international operations, we are subject to laws prohibiting certain payments to governmental officials, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in regulatory enforcement actions as well as substantial civil and criminal penalties assessed against us and our employees.. We intend to continue to expand our global footprint in order to meet our clients' needs. This may involve expanding into countries beyond those in which we currently operate.  We may involve expanding into less developed countries, which may have less political, social or economic stability and less developed infrastructure and legal systems. As we expand our business into new countries, regulatory, personnel, technological and other difficulties may increase our expenses or delay our ability to start up operations or become profitable in such countries.  This may affect our relationships with our clients and could have an adverse effect on our business.. 21. Table of Contents. The uncertainty surrounding the implementation and effect of Brexit may cause increased economic volatility, affecting our operations and business.. Given our operations in the United Kingdom and Continental Europe, we face uncertainty surrounding the implementation and effects of the U.K.'s June 2016 referendum in which voters approved the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" It is possible that Brexit will cause increased regulatory and legal complexities and create uncertainty surrounding our business, including our relationships with existing and future clients, suppliers and employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations.. Data protection laws and self-regulatory codes may restrict our activities and increase our costs.. Various statutes and rules regulate conduct in areas such as privacy and data protection which may affect our collection, use, storage and transfer of information both abroad and in the United States. Compliance with these laws and self-regulatory codes may require us to make certain investments or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services or only offer such services after making necessary modifications. Failure to comply with these laws and self-regulatory codes may result in, among other things, civil and criminal liability, negative publicity, restrictions on further use of data and/or liability under contractual warranties.. In addition, there is an increasing public concern regarding data and consumer protection issues, with the result that the number of jurisdictions with data protection laws continues to increase and the scope of existing privacy laws and the data considered to be covered by such laws is expanding. Changes in these laws (including newly released interpretations of these laws by courts and regulatory bodies) may limit our data access, use and disclosure, and may require increased expenditures by us or may dictate that we may not offer certain types of services.. The European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which will take effect in May 2018, has extra-territorial scope and substantial fines for breaches (up to 4% of global annual revenue or \20020 million, whichever is greater).    Additionally, compliance with the GDPR is resulting in operational costs to implement new procedures corresponding to new legal rights granted under the law, but has had little direct impact on ISG products.  ISG is continuing to monitor the development of the EU's ePrivacy Regulation proposal and industry response and will determine whether to take further action, as needed, following its final adoption.. We operate in a number of international areas which exposes us to significant foreign currency exchange rate risk.. We have significant international revenue, which is predominantly collected in local currency.  We do enter into forward contracts for hedging of specific transactions. All are settled prior to quarter end. It is expected that our international revenues will continue to grow as European and Asian markets adopt sourcing solutions.  The translation of our revenues into U.S. dollars, as well as our costs of operating internationally, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be subject to claims for substantial damages by our clients arising out of disruptions to their businesses or inadequate service and our insurance coverage may be inadequate.. Most of our service contracts with clients contain service level and performance requirements, including requirements relating to the quality of our services. Failure to consistently meet service requirements of a client or errors made by our employees in the course of delivering services to our clients could disrupt the client's. 22. Table of Contents. business and result in a reduction in revenues or a claim for damages against us. Additionally, we could incur liability if a process we manage for a client were to result in internal control failures or impair our client's ability to comply with our own internal control requirements.. Under our service agreements with our clients, our liability for breach of our obligations is generally limited to actual damages suffered by the client and is typically capped at the greater of an agreed amount or the fees paid or payable to us under the relevant agreement.  These limitations and caps on liability may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients or liability for breaches of confidentiality, are generally not limited under those agreements.  Although we have general commercial liability insurance coverage, the coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage or changes in our insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co - insurance requirements) could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We could be liable to our clients for damages and subject to liability and our reputation could be damaged if our confidential information or client data is compromised.. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information. We are often required to collect and store sensitive or confidential client data in order to perform the services we provide under our contracts. Many of our contracts do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of our current or former employees, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive data or if we do not adapt to changes in data protection legislation, we could be subject to significant liabilities to our clients or to our clients' customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Also, we could face cyber-based attacks and attempts by hackers and similar unauthorized users to gain access to or corrupt our information technology systems in order to gain access to confidential information and client data. Such attacks could disrupt our business operations, cause us to incur unanticipated losses or expenses, and result in unauthorized disclosures of confidential or proprietary information. Although we seek to prevent, detect and investigate these network security incidents, and have taken steps to mitigate the likelihood of network security breaches, there can be no assurance that attacks by unauthorized users will not be attempted in the future or that our security measures will be effective.  Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client data, whether through breach of our processes, systems or otherwise, could also damage our reputation and cause us to lose existing and potential clients. We may also be subject to civil actions and criminal prosecution by government or government agencies for breaches relating to such data. Our insurance coverage for breaches or mismanagement of such data may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us.. We could have liability or our reputation could be damaged if we fail to protect client and/or our data from security breaches or cyberattacks.. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to securely process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our people, clients, alliance partners and vendors. As the breadth and complexity of this infrastructure continues to grow, including as a result of the use of mobile technologies, social media and cloud-based services, the risk of security breaches and cyberattacks increases. Such breaches could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of or damage to our systems and those of our clients, alliance partners and vendors, and unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information, including personal data.. 23. Table of Contents. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could adversely affect our business and the market price of our Common Stock.. Pursuant to rules adopted by the SEC implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. This report contains, among other matters, a statement as to whether or not our internal controls over financial reporting are effective and the disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting identified by management.. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. Auditing Standard No. 5 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to attest to, and report on, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404.  Management's assessment of internal controls over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and, some of the judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation.  Therefore, our management's report on our internal controls over financial reporting may be difficult to prepare, and our auditors may not agree with our management's assessment.. While we currently believe our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, we are required to comply with Section 404 on an annual basis. If, in the future, we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting during this continuous evaluation process, our management will be unable to assert such internal controls are effective.  Therefore, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective in the future, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our business and the market price of our Common Stock.. Impairment to goodwill and other intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to perform an annual impairment test at the reporting unit level on our goodwill.  We are required to assess the recoverability of both our goodwill and long-lived intangible assets.  We may need to perform an impairment test more frequently if events occur or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business conditions, attrition of key personnel, a prolonged decline in our stock price and market capitalization, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition and other factors. If the fair market value of our reporting unit or other long-lived intangible assets is less than the carrying amount of the related assets, we could be required to record an impairment charge in the future. The valuation of our reporting unit requires judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and other factors.  In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial condition of our reporting unit, including such factors as market performance, changes in our client base and projected growth rates. Because these factors are ever changing, due to market and general business conditions, we cannot predict whether, and to what extent, our goodwill and long-lived intangible assets may be impaired in future periods.  The amount of any future impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. 24. Table of Contents. Client restrictions on the use of client data could adversely affect our activities.. The majority of the data we use to populate our databases comes from our client engagements. The insight sought by clients from us relates to the contractual data and terms, including pricing and costs, to which we have access in the course of assisting our clients in the negotiation of our sourcing agreements. Data is obtained through the course of our engagements with clients who agree to contractual provisions permitting us to consolidate and utilize on an aggregate basis such information.  If we were unable to utilize key data from previous client engagements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name.. During 2012, we merged our individual corporate brands into one globally integrated go - to - market business under the ISG brand.  We have also integrated our recent acquisitions under this brand.  There may be other entities providing similar services that use this name for their business.. We believe that the ISG brand remains critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and staff and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases.  We may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen our brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, expend additional sums to protect the brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. If we fail to effectively promote and maintain the brand or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be adversely impacted.. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance.. From time to time, we release guidance regarding our future performance that represents our management's estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which consists of forward - looking statements, is prepared by our management and is qualified by, and subject to, the assumptions and the other information contained or referred to in the release. Our guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), and neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the guidance and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, is inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that we release this data is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors.  We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons.  Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release.  Actual results will vary from the guidance and the variations may be material. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data is forecast.  In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on it. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K could result in the actual operating results being different than the guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material.. 25. Table of Contents"
