[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company. However, the risks and uncertainties our company faces are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. General Business and Economic Risks. We may be adversely affected by general global economic and financial conditions beyond our control.. Our businesses may be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control such as general economic and business conditions,  changes in tax laws or tax rates and conditions  in the financial services markets including counterparty risk, insurance carrier risk, rising interest rates, inflation, deflation, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the U.S. dollar or the impact. 16. Index. of a stronger U.S. dollar which may negatively impact our ability to compete. Macro-economic challenges, including conditions in financial and capital markets and levels of unemployment, and the ability of the United States and other countries to deal with their rising debt levels may continue to put pressure on the economy or lead to changes in tax laws or tax rates. There can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or tax rates will not have a material impact on our future cash taxes, effective tax rate or deferred tax assets and liabilities. Adverse developments in global or regional economies could drive an increase or decrease in the demand for our products that could increase or decrease our revenues, increase or decrease our manufacturing costs and ultimately increase or decrease our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. As a result of negative changes in the economy, customers, vendors or counterparties may experience significant cash flow problems or cause consumers of our products to postpone or refrain from spending in response to adverse economic events or conditions.  If customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or cash flows or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay or may delay payment of accounts receivable that are owed to us or we may experience lower sales volumes. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of the foregoing.. We are exposed to the risks inherent in international sales and operations.. In 2017, export sales from the United States made up approximately one third of our total sales, and we sell our products to customers in approximately 70 countries. We have exposure to risks of operating in many foreign countries, including:. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the euro, Japanese yen and Chinese renminbi;. • restrictions on, or difficulties and costs associated with, the repatriation of cash from foreign countries to the United States;. • difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations;. • unexpected changes in political or regulatory environments;. • earnings and cash flows that may be subject to tax withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions;. • political and economic instability;. • import and export restrictions and other trade barriers;. • difficulties in maintaining overseas subsidiaries and international operations;. • difficulties in obtaining approval for significant transactions;. • government limitations on foreign ownership;. • government takeover or nationalization of business; and. • government mandated price controls.. Any one or more of the above factors could adversely affect our international operations and could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have also expanded our participation in certain markets. As our international operations and activities expand, we inevitably have greater exposure to the risks of operating in many foreign countries.. Our reported results could be adversely affected by currency exchange rates and currency devaluation could impair our competitiveness.. Due to our international operations, we transact in many foreign currencies, including but not limited to the euro, Japanese yen and Chinese renminbi. As a result, we are subject to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported net revenues and operating income will be reduced because the local currency will be translated into fewer U.S. dollars. During periods of local economic crisis, local currencies may be devalued significantly against the U.S. dollar, potentially reducing our margin. Ingevity may enter forward exchange contracts and other financial contracts in an attempt to mitigate the impact of currency rate fluctuations. However, there can be no assurance that such actions will eliminate any adverse impact from variation in currency rates. Also, actions to recover margins may result in lower volume and a weaker competitive position, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability.. 17. Index. Our operations outside the United States require us to comply with a number of U.S. and foreign regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations outside the United States require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international regulations.  For example, our operations in countries outside the United States are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), which prohibits U.S. companies and their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity, or obtain any unfair advantage. Our activities may create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by our employees, agents or joint venture partners that could be in violation of anti-corruption laws, even though these parties are not subject to our control. We have internal control policies and procedures and training and compliance programs for our employees and agents with respect to the FCPA. However, we cannot assure that our policies, procedures and programs always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Allegations of violations of applicable anti-corruption laws may result in internal, independent or government investigations.  Violations of anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import activities are governed by the unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, many countries, including the United States, control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related export record-keeping and reporting obligations. Governments may also impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities, which may limit or prevent our conduct of business in certain jurisdictions.. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export record-keeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations can cause delays in shipments and unscheduled operational downtime. Moreover, any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from governmental contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. In addition, investigations by governmental authorities as well as legal, social, economic and political issues in these countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners and agents outside of the United States may fail to comply with other applicable laws.. Risks Related to Ingevity's Business. We are dependent on attracting and retaining key personnel.. The Company is dependent upon its senior management, as well as upon engineering, technical, sales and application specialists, together with experienced industry professionals.  Our success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, retain and motivate these key performers.  Our failure to attract and retain those making significant contributions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Adverse conditions in the automotive market may adversely affect demand for our automotive carbon products.. Sales of our automotive activated carbon products are tied to global automobile production levels. Automotive production in the markets we serve can be affected by macro-economic factors such as interest rates, fuel prices, consumer confidence, employment trends, regulatory and legislative oversight requirements and trade agreements. For example, the global economic downturn in 2008/2009 led to a drastic reduction in vehicle sales and an even greater reduction in vehicle production as OEMs right-sized their inventories to meet the lower sales volumes. Regional disruptions such as those caused by the Japan earthquake and resulting tsunami in March 2011 and Hurricane Sandy in October 2012 can also significantly impact vehicle production and therefore demand for our automotive carbon.. In addition, growth in alternative vehicles, such as all-electric vehicles and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles, which do not use gasoline, may also adversely affect the demand for our products.. If increasingly more stringent air quality standards worldwide are not adopted, our growth could be impacted.. Environmental standards drive the implementation of gasoline vapor emission control systems by automotive manufacturers. Given increasing societal concern over global warming and health hazards associated with poor air quality, there is growing pressure on regulators across the globe to take meaningful action. For those countries that have not significantly regulated. 18. Index. gasoline vapor emissions, enacting more stringent regulations governing gasoline vapor emissions represents a significant upside to the Company's automotive carbon business. However, regulators may react to a variety of considerations, including economic and political, that may mean that any such more stringent regulations are delayed or shelved entirely, in one or more countries or regions. As the adoption of more stringent regulations governing gasoline vapor emissions is expected to drive significant growth in our automotive carbon applications, the failure to enact such regulations will have a significant impact on the growth prospects for these products.. The Company's printing inks business serves customers in a market that is facing declining volumes.. In recent years, the use of inks in which our printing ink resins are used, such as those made for magazines and catalogues, has significantly decreased, as the printing industry has experienced a reduction in demand due to various factors including the great recession of 2008 and 2009, which severely impacted volumes, and competition from alternative sources of communication, including email, the Web, electronic readers, interactive television and electronic retailing. The impacts of these changes have led to continued intense competition and downward pricing pressures on printing inks, and therefore, our ink products.. The Company's pavement technologies business is heavily dependent on government infrastructure spending.. A significant portion of our customers' revenues in our pavement technologies business is derived from contracts with various foreign and U.S. governmental agencies, and therefore, when government spending is reduced, our customers' need for our products is similarly reduced. While we do not do business directly with governmental agencies, our customers provide paving services to, for example, the governments of various jurisdictions within North America, Europe, China, Brazil and India, and revenue either directly or indirectly attributable to such government spending continues to remain a significant portion of our revenues. Government business is, in general, subject to special risks and challenges, including: delays in funding and uncertainty regarding the allocation  of funds to federal, state and local agencies, delays in the expenditures and delays or reductions  in other state and local funding dedicated for transportation projects; other government budgetary constraints, cutbacks, delays or reallocation of government funding; long purchase cycles or approval processes; our customers' competitive bidding and qualification requirements; changes in government policies and political agendas; and international conflicts or other military operations that could cause the temporary or permanent diversion of government  funding from transportation or other infrastructure projects.. The Company's oilfield technologies business is significantly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices that affect the level of exploration, development and production activity.. Demand for our oilfield technologies services and products is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies, including national oil companies. The level of exploration, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which historically have been volatile. Crude oil prices have declined significantly since 2014, with West Texas Intermediate oil spot prices declining from a high of $108 per barrel in June 2014 to a low of $27 per barrel in February 2016, a level which had not been experienced since 2003. Since February 2016, pricing has climbed to a trading range of $55 to $65 per barrel in the November 2017 to January 2018 time frame. Pricing is not currently forecasted to improve significantly from these levels during 2018. While these pricing levels are significantly above the February 2016 levels, they remain off their highs seen in the last decade.. Any prolonged low pricing environment for oil and natural gas is likely to result in reduced demand for our oilfield technology products, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. In order to compete successfully, we must develop new products and technologies meeting evolving market and customer needs; disruptive technologies could reduce the demand for the Company's products.. Our industries and the end-use markets into which we sell our products experience periodic technological change and product improvement. Our future growth will depend on our ability to gauge the direction of commercial and technological progress in key end-use markets and on our ability to fund and successfully develop, manufacture and market products in such changing end-use markets. If we fail to keep pace with the evolving technological innovations in our end-use markets on a competitive basis, including with respect to innovation with regard to the development of alternative uses for, or application of, products developed that utilize such end-use products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Similarly, we face competition in our applications. Disruptive technology involving new or superior solutions could reduce the demand for the Company's products.. 19. Index. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, we may lose significant competitive advantages.. Intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks, trade names and trade dress, are important to our business. See \"Intellectual Property\" included within Part I. Item 1 of this Form 10-K for more information on our \"canister bleed emissions\" patent. We will endeavor to protect our intellectual property rights in key jurisdictions in which our products are produced or used, in jurisdictions into which our products are imported, and in jurisdictions where our competitors have significant manufacturing capabilities. Our success will depend to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property rights. However, we may be unable to obtain or maintain protection for our intellectual property in key jurisdictions. Although we own and have applied for numerous patents and trademarks throughout the world, we may have to rely on judicial enforcement of our patents and other proprietary rights. Our patents and other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented and rendered unenforceable or otherwise compromised. A failure to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, third parties may assert claims against us and our customers and distributors alleging our products infringe upon third party intellectual property rights.. We also rely materially upon unpatented proprietary technology, know-how and other trade secrets to maintain our competitive position. While we maintain policies to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our proprietary expertise and other trade secrets, these agreements may not be enforceable or, even if legally enforceable, we may not have adequate remedies for breaches of such agreements. We also may not be able to readily detect breaches of such agreements. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary technology, know-how or trade secrets could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share.. If we must take legal action to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, any suits or proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and our management's attention, and we may not prevail in any such suits or proceedings. A failure to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our Performance Chemicals segment is highly dependent on CTO, which is limited in supply; lack of access to sufficient CTO would impact our ability to produce CTO-based products.. The availability of CTO is essential to the Company's Performance Chemicals segment. Availability of CTO is directly linked to the production output of kraft mills using pine as their source of pulp, which is the predominant fiber source for packaging grades of paper. As a result, there is a finite global supply of CTO-with global demand for kraft board driving the global supply of CTO, rather than demand for CTO itself. Most of the CTO made available for sale by its producers in North America is covered by long-term supply agreements, further constraining availability.. At the time of the Separation, we entered into a long-term supply agreement with WestRock pursuant to which we purchase all of the CTO output from WestRock's existing (at the time of separation) kraft mills, subject to certain exceptions. This agreement includes pricing terms based on market prices. Under this agreement, based on WestRock's current output, we currently expect to source approximately 45% to 55% of our CTO requirements based on the maximum operating rates of our two Performance Chemicals' facilities. We also have agreements with other suppliers to satisfy substantially all of the balance of our expected requirements of CTO through 2018.. Pricing for the products in our agreement with WestRock is based on the prevailing market prices of products at the time of purchase. The pricing formulas are subject to certain pricing floors as set forth in the agreement. Given the take-or-pay requirements of the agreement, in adverse market conditions we could be required to purchase CTO from WestRock at prices where our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. If any of our suppliers (including WestRock) fail to meet their respective obligations under our supply agreements or we are otherwise unable to procure an adequate supply of CTO, we would be unable to maintain our current level of production and our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. Beginning in 2025, either party to the WestRock agreement may provide a notice to the other party terminating the agreement five years from the date of such notice. Beginning one year after such notice, the quantity of products provided by WestRock under the agreement will be gradually reduced over a four-year period based on the schedule set forth in the agreement. In addition, from 2022 until 2025, either party may provide a one-year notice to remove a kraft mill as a supply source. The two largest kraft mills under the agreement currently supply approximately 18% to 19 % and 15% to 16%, respectively, of the total amount of products supplied under our agreement with WestRock. If WestRock exercises its rights to terminate the agreement or. 20. Index. remove a kraft mill as a supply source, and we are unable to arrange for a substitute supply of CTO, we would be unable to continue to produce the same quantity of products and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. There are other pressures on the availability of CTO. Some pulp or paper mills may choose to consume their production of CTO to meet their energy needs rather than sell the CTO to third parties. Also, as described below, there are regulatory pressures that may incentivize suppliers of CTO to sell CTO into alternative fuel markets rather than to historical end users such as Ingevity. Furthermore, weather conditions have in the past and may in the future affect the availability and quality of pine trees used in the kraft pulping process and therefore the availability of CTO meeting Ingevity's quality standards. For example, the combined impact of Hurricane Katrina in August 2005 and Hurricane Rita in September 2005 caused significant damage to forests throughout the southern United States. This significantly affected the availability and quality of the supply of CTO during late 2005 and into 2006.. The European Union's Directive 2009/28 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable resources (\"Renewable Energy Directive\" or \"RED\") and similar legislation in the United States and elsewhere may incentivize the use of CTO as a feedstock for production of alternative fuels.. In December 2008, the European Union (\"EU\") adopted the Renewable Energy Directive, which established a 20% EU-wide target for energy consumed from renewable sources relative to the EU's gross final consumption of energy, as well as a 10% target for energy consumed from renewable sources in the transport section. In order to reach these targets, the RED established mandatory targets for each Member State and required each Member State to adopt a national renewable energy action plan setting forth measures to achieve its national targets. The RED also established sustainability criteria for biofuels, which must be satisfied in order for the consumption of a fuel to count toward a Member State's national targets. CTO-based biofuel currently satisfies the RED's biofuel sustainability criteria.. In spring 2015, the EU adopted amendments to the Renewable Energy Directive. RED now expressly lists CTO as a residue-type feedstock whose use in biofuel would make that biofuel eligible for double counting towards national targets of the Member States, and at least two Member States additionally have or plan fiscal incentives for the domestic marketing of CTO-based and other qualifying biofuels. The EU is drafting legislation for RED II, which, if adopted, will replace RED as the renewal energy policy for 2020 to 2030.. In addition to these developments in the European Union, various pieces of legislation regarding the use of alternative fuels have been introduced in the U.S.  Currently, none of the U.S. legislation mandates or provides incentives for the use of CTO as a transportation fuel.  Some regional cap and trade programs may incentivize the use of CTO in stationary sources.. Because the supply of CTO is inherently constrained by the volume of kraft pulp processing, any diversion of CTO for production of alternative fuels would reduce the available supply of CTO as the principal raw material of the pine chemicals industry. As described above, the Company is highly dependent on CTO as an essential raw material, and if the Company is unable to procure an adequate supply of CTO due to competing new uses such as for biofuel production, the Company's results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. Pricing for CTO is subject to particular pricing pressures by reason of limited supply and competing demands for end use, and we may be limited in our ability to pass on increased costs to our customers.. Pricing for CTO (which accounted for approximately 13 percent of all of our cost of sales and 35 percent of our raw materials purchases for 2017) is subject to particular pricing pressures by reason of the limited supply elasticity of the product and competing demands for its use, all of which drive pressure on price:. • CTO is a product of the kraft pulping process, and the global supply of CTO is inherently constrained by the volume of kraft pulping processing;. • CTO can be burned as alternative fuels, either in support of the originating pulp mill operations, by energy companies or biofuel companies; and. • Regulations or other incentives to mandate or encourage the consumption of biofuels as alternatives, including CTO.. We may not have the ability to pass through any increases in our cost of CTO to our customers in the form of price increases or other adjustments, with a resulting material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors who rely on different primary raw materials or who have more favorable terms with their suppliers.. 21. Index. We are also dependent on other raw materials, and these are also subject to pricing pressures; lack of access to these raw materials and inability to pass on price increases could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is dependent on other raw materials, including, but not limited to, sawdust, phosphoric acid, ethylene amines, lignin, nonylphenol, and pentaerythritol. Raw material costs are a significant operating expense of the Company.  The cost of raw materials can be volatile and subject to increases as a result of, among other things, changing economic conditions, political or policy considerations, supply and demand levels, instability in energy producing nations, and natural events such as extreme weather events or even insect infestations. Any interruption in the supply of the raw materials on which we depend, and any increases in the cost of raw materials that we are not able to pass on to customers in the form of price increases or other adjustments, may materially impact our financial condition and results of operations.. A prolonged period of low energy prices may materially impact our results of operations.. The price of energy may directly or indirectly impact demand, pricing or the profitability for certain Ingevity products. As petroleum oil prices fall or change rapidly, Ingevity products may be disadvantaged due to the fact that CTO and BLSS are thinly traded commodities with pricing commonly established for periods ranging from one quarter to one year periods of time. Due to this, alternative technologies which compete with product offerings provided by Ingevity may be advantaged from time to time in the market place. Protracted periods of high volatility or sustained oversupply of petroleum oil may also translate into increased competition from petroleum-based alternatives which would otherwise be consumed in petroleum transportation fuel blends. In addition, pricing for competing naturally derived oils such as palm or soybean is likely to provide further pressure on pricing of the Company's products during periods of depressed petroleum prices.. We face competition from producers of alternative products and new technologies.. In the Performance Materials segment, there is competition from various other activated carbon manufacturers. These competitors are actively trying to develop more advanced and alternative activated carbon products that would more effectively compete with our products in the automotive applications. There is also competition in the automotive applications from non-activated carbon competitors or product offerings. For example, at least one OEM is using sealed tanks in certain subsets of its vehicles to comply with the LEV III/Tier 3 regulations. While the sealed tank fuel systems generally require a similarly sized pelleted activated carbon canister to deal with refueling emissions, in most cases, they do not use a honeycomb to meet current U.S. and California regulations. If a competitor were to succeed in developing products that are better suited for automotive evaporative emissions capture applications and/or a competitive technology, such as, but not limited to, sealed gas tanks, were to be implemented across a material number of vehicle platforms, our financial results could be negatively impacted.. In the Performance Chemicals segment, hydrocarbon resins and gum rosin-based products compete with TOR-based resins in the adhesives and inks markets. The price of gum rosin has a significant impact on the market price for TOR and rosin derivatives and the price of gum rosin is driven by labor rates, land leasing costs and various other factors that are not within our control. Hydrocarbon resins, for example, C5 resins, are co-products from isoprene (synthetic rubber).  Availability and pricing are determined by the supply and demand for synthetic rubber as well as crude oil prices as the feedstock for isoprene and various other factors that are not within our control. Animal and vegetable-based fatty acids compete with TOFA products in lubricant and industrial specialties. The market price for TOFA products is impacted by the prices of other fats and oils and the prices for other fats and oils is driven by actual and expected harvest rates, crude oil prices and the biofuel market. Additionally, the Company faces competition from competitors that are actively developing new technologies and competing products across the segment. A significant investment by a competitor in a competitive technology or product line could negatively impact our financial results.. Disruptions at any of our manufacturing facilities or within our supply chain could negatively impact our production, financial condition and results of operations.. An operational disruption in any of our facilities could negatively impact production and our financial results. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, severe weather, flood, fire or other unanticipated problems such as labor difficulties, equipment failure, capacity expansion difficulties or unscheduled maintenance could cause operational disruptions of varied duration. These types of disruptions could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations to varying degrees dependent upon the facility, the duration of the disruption, our ability to shift business to another facility or find alternative sources of materials or energy. In certain cases, we have some products that are only made at one facility. For example, in the case of our Purification Cellutions, LLC, Waynesboro, Georgia honeycomb joint venture, while we have some redundancies within the facility, we only have one facility that makes these extruded honeycomb products. As another example, we make the vast majority of our ink resin products in our DeRidder, Louisiana facility. While we. 22. Index. have redundancies within the facility, we have limited ability to make these products at other facilities. Any losses due to these events may not be covered by our existing insurance policies or may be subject to certain deductibles.. We could be similarly adversely affected by disruptions within our supply chain and transportation network. Our products are transported by truck, rail, barge or ship by third-party providers. The costs of transporting our products could be negatively affected by factors outside of our control, including rail service interruptions or rate increases, tariffs, rising fuel costs and capacity constraints. Significant delays or increased costs affecting these transportation methods could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions at our suppliers could lead to short term or longer rises in raw material or energy costs and/or reduced availability of materials or energy, potentially affecting our financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent upon third parties for the provision of certain critical operating services at several of our facilities.. We are dependent upon third parties for the provision of certain critical operating services at our Covington, Virginia Performance Materials facility and at our North Charleston, South Carolina Performance Chemicals facility.. We are dependent on the WestRock Covington, Virginia paper mill (\"WestRock Paper Mill\") for the provision of electricity, water, compressed air, steam and wastewater treatment to our Covington Performance Materials  facility and we are similarly dependent on the KapStone Paper and Packaging Corporation (\"KapStone\") North Charleston, South Carolina  paper mill (\"KapStone Paper Mill\") for the provision of water, compressed air, steam and wastewater treatment at our North Charleston Performance Chemicals facility. We have existing long-term contractual arrangements covering these services for our Covington and North Charleston facilities. The provision of these services would be at risk if any of the counterparties were to idle or permanently shut down the associated mill, or if operations at the associated mill were disrupted due to natural or other disaster, or by reason of strikes or other labor disruptions, or if there were a significant contractual dispute between the parties.. In the event that WestRock Paper Mill or KapStone Paper Mill were to fail to provide the contracted services, we would be required to obtain these services from other third parties at an increased cost or to expend capital to provide these services ourselves. The expenses associated with obtaining or providing these services, as well as any interruption in our operations as a result of the failure of the counterparty to provide these services, may be significant and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Furthermore, in the event that WestRock Paper Mill wastewater treatment operations do not comply with permits or applicable law and the WestRock Paper Mill is unable to determine the cause of such compliance, then we will be responsible for between 10% and 50% of the costs and expenses of such noncompliance (increasing in 10% increments per violation during each twelve month period) despite representing less than 3% of the total wastewater volume. These costs and expenses may be significant and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, our Covington Performance Materials facility is located on real property leased from WestRock pursuant to a long-term lease agreement, and is surrounded by the WestRock Paper Mill, and a portion of our North Charleston Performance Chemicals facility is located on real property leased from KapStone and is adjacent to the KapStone Paper Mill. In the event we were to have a dispute with WestRock or KapStone regarding the terms of the relevant lease agreement, or we were otherwise unable to fully access or utilize the leased property, the associated business disruption may be significant and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are also dependent on third parties for the disposal of brine, which results from our own conversion of BLSS into CTO. If these service providers do not perform under their contracts, the costs of disposing of brine ourselves, including, for example, the transportation costs, could be significant.. Work stoppages and other labor relations matters may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. A number of our employees are governed by collective bargaining agreements (\"CBAs\"). From time to time the Company engages in negotiations to renew CBAs as those contracts are scheduled to expire. During 2017, we ratified new labor agreements with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (\"IBEW\") and the Covington Paperworkers Union (\"CPU\") at our Covington, Virginia location and the United Steel Workers (\"USW\") at our Wickliffe, Kentucky location. The CBAs with the USW, representing 103 production and maintenance employees; the IBEW, representing eight instrument and electrical workers; and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (\"IAM\"), representing five maintenance employees at our North Charleston, South Carolina plant, will expire on June 30, 2018. We have begun to prepare for bargaining with all three unions representing employees at the North Charleston plant in 2018. While the Company has generally positive relations with its labor unions, there is no guarantee the Company will be able to successfully negotiate new union contracts without work. 23. Index. stoppages, labor difficulties or unfavorable terms. If we were to experience any extended interruption of operations at any of our facilities as a result of strikes or other work stoppages, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, due to the co-location of our Covington, Virginia and North Charleston, South Carolina facilities within the WestRock Paper Mill and KapStone Paper Mill facilities, a strike or work stoppage at either of those facilities could cause disruptions at our facilities, and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our business involves hazards associated with chemical manufacturing, storage, transportation and disposal.. There are hazards associated with the chemicals we manufacture and the related storage and transportation of our raw materials, including common solvents, such as toluene and methanol, and reactive chemicals, such as acrylic acid, all of which fall under the OSHA Process Safety Management Code. These hazards could lead to an interruption or suspension of operations and have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on us as a whole. While we endeavor to provide adequate protection for the safe handling of these materials, issues could be created by various events, including natural disasters, severe weather events, acts of sabotage and performance by third parties, and as a result we could face the following potential hazards: piping and storage tank leaks and ruptures; mechanical failure; employee exposure to hazardous substances; and chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases.. These hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to property and contamination of the environment, which could lead to government fines, work stoppage injunctions, lawsuits by injured persons, damage to our public reputation and brand and diminished product acceptance. If such actions are determined adversely to us or there is an associated economic impact to our business, we may have inadequate insurance or cash flow to offset any associated costs. Such outcomes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Regulation of exposure to certain process chemicals could require expenditures or changes to our product formulations.. Certain regulations  applicable to our operations, including the Occupational Safety and Health Act and the Toxic Substances Control  Act in the United States and the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals, or REACH, directive in Europe,  prescribe limits restricting exposure to a number of chemicals used in our operations, including certain forms of formaldehyde, a raw material used in the manufacture of phenolic modified rosin-based  ink resins and some lignin-based dispersants.  Future studies on the health effects of chemicals used in our operations, including alkylphenols, such as bisphenol A, which are used in our TOR-based ink resins, may result in additional regulation or new requirements in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, which might further restrict or prohibit the use of, and exposure to, these chemicals. Additional regulation of or requirements for these or other chemicals could require us to change our operations, and these changes could affect the quality or types of products we manufacture and/or materially increase our costs.. The Company's operations are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental laws and regulations.. The Company's operations are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental laws and regulations, including, for example, related to bisphenol A, formaldehyde and air emissions. Changes in environmental laws and regulations, or their application, could subject the Company to significant additional capital expenditures and operating expenses in future years. However, any such changes are uncertain and, therefore, it is not possible for the Company to predict with certainty the amount of additional capital expenditures or operating expenses that could be necessary for compliance with respect to any such changes.. We are subject to cyber-security risks related to our intellectual property and certain other data.. We use information technologies to retain certain of our intellectual property, as well as to securely manage operations and various business functions. Our systems are potentially subject to attempts by third parties to access information or to disrupt our systems. Despite our security design and controls, and those of our third-party providers, we could become subject to cyber-attacks which could result in operational disruptions or the misappropriation of sensitive data. There can be no assurance that such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions will not be material to our financial condition or results of operations.. We are dependent on certain customers.. We have certain large customers in particular businesses, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on the applicable segment's sales and, depending on the significance of the loss, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Sales to the Company's ten largest customers (across both segments) accounted for 37% of total sales for 2017. No customer accounted for more than 10% of total sales for 2017. With some exceptions, our business with those large customers is based. 24. Index. primarily upon individual purchase orders. As such, our customers could cease buying our products from us at any time, for any reason, with little or no recourse. If a major customer or multiple smaller customers elected not to purchase products from us, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. Challenges in the commercial and credit environment may materially adversely affect Ingevity's future access to capital.. Ingevity's ability to issue debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be materially adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for Ingevity's products or in the solvency of its customers or suppliers or if other significantly unfavorable changes in economic conditions occur. Volatility in the world financial markets could increase borrowing costs or affect Ingevity's ability to gain access to the capital markets, which could have a material adverse effect on Ingevity's competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our current level of debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations.. Our debt requires significant interest and principal payments.  Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations and to fund working capital, planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may make in the future depends on our ability to generate cash in the future and our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt, including the notes.  These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.  If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations.  We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds sought from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.  Further, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, and there can be no assurances we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. The inability to make or effectively integrate future acquisitions may affect our results.. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and product lines (including our planned acquisition of the Pine Chemicals Business) or invest in joint ventures. The ability to grow through acquisitions or other investments depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions or joint venture arrangements. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions into our existing business, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Ingevity may not be able to engage in certain corporate actions under the terms of the Tax Matters Agreement.. To preserve the tax-free treatment to WestRock of the Separation and the distribution, under the tax matters agreement that Ingevity entered into with WestRock (the \"Tax Matters Agreement\") Ingevity and its subsidiaries are restricted from taking or failing to take any action that prevents the distribution and/or certain related transactions from being tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, prior to or on the 25-month anniversary of the Distribution Date, Ingevity is prohibited, except in certain circumstances, from:. • entering into any transaction resulting in the acquisition of 50% or more of its stock (by vote or value, taking into account the stock indirectly acquired by the stockholders of Rock-Tenn Company (\"Rock-Tenn\") in the combination (the \"Merger\") of MeadWestvaco Corporation and Rock-Tenn, completed on July 1, 2015) or a substantial portion of its assets, whether by merger or otherwise;. • merging, consolidating, dissolving or liquidating, or permitting any of its subsidiaries to merge, consolidate, dissolve or liquidate;. • issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds;. • taking any action affecting the relative voting rights of Ingevity stock;. 25. Index. • redeeming or repurchasing its capital stock beyond certain thresholds; and. • ceasing to actively conduct certain businesses.. These restrictions may limit Ingevity's ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that it may believe to be in the best interests of its stockholders or that might increase the value of its business. In addition, under the Tax Matters Agreement, Ingevity is required to indemnify WestRock against any of WestRock's tax liabilities as a result of the acquisition of Ingevity's stock or assets, even if Ingevity did not participate in or otherwise facilitate the acquisition.. We are subject to continuing contingent tax-related liabilities of WestRock.. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), each corporation that was a member of WestRock's consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the distribution is severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of the entire consolidated tax reporting group for such taxable period. In connection with the Separation, we entered into the Tax Matters Agreement with WestRock that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of WestRock's consolidated tax reporting group between Ingevity and WestRock.  If WestRock were unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, however, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes, and such amounts could be significant. The Tax Matters Agreement generally gives WestRock discretion to handle consolidated tax returns and audits for pre-distribution periods in a manner which may be unfavorable to us and which may result in additional tax costs to us.. Our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we are subject following the Separation.. Our financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of WestRock, and our reporting and control systems were appropriate for those of subsidiaries of a public company. Prior to the Separation, we were not directly subject to reporting and other requirements of the Exchange Act and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Following the Separation, we are subject to such reporting and other requirements, which require, among other things, annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. These and other obligations place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting and Information Technology resources.. To comply with these requirements, we have upgraded and continue to upgrade our systems, including computer hardware infrastructure, implementation of additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, and we continue to hire additional accounting, finance and Information Technology staff. If we are unable to upgrade our financial and management controls, reporting systems, Information Technology and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our tax rate is dependent upon a number of factors; a change in any of which could impact our future tax rates and net income.. Our future tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: future changes in the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in estimated realization of our deferred tax assets; the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided U.S. income and non-U.S. withholding taxes; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses that are non-deductible for tax purposes; changes in available tax credits; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; and changes in tax laws or interpretation of such tax laws. Losses for which no tax benefits can be recorded could materially impact our tax rate and its volatility from one quarter to another.. Our planned acquisition of Georgia Pacific's (\"GP\") Pine Chemical Business may not occur in the expected time frame, which may negatively affect the benefits we expect to obtain from the transaction and increase transaction costs, or may not occur at all.. The Agreement for the Acquisition contains customary representations, warranties, indemnities and closing conditions (including the expiration or early termination of the waiting period under the HSR Act, and receipt of other required antitrust approvals in certain foreign jurisdictions).  On November 9, 2017, the Company received a request for additional information and documentary material, often referred to as a \"second request,\" from the Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\") in connection with the Agreement. The second request was issued under the  Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, or \"HSR Act.\" GP. 26. Index. received a similar second request from the FTC in connection with the Acquisition. Consummation of the Acquisition is conditioned on expiration of the waiting period applicable under the HSR Act, among other conditions.  Issuance of a second request is a standard part of the regulatory approval process for transactions of this type. The effect of the second request is to extend the waiting period under the HSR Act until 30 days after all parties to the Agreement have substantially complied with the second request, unless the waiting period is terminated earlier by the FTC or the parties voluntarily extend the time for closing. The Company will continue to work closely and cooperatively with the FTC and currently anticipates closing the Acquisition in the first quarter of 2018, assuming receipt of FTC clearance.. Completion of the Acquisition is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of other conditions as set forth in the Agreement, including the receipt of certain governmental approvals. We and GP may not be able to satisfy the closing conditions; closing conditions beyond our or their control may not be satisfied or waived and the Acquisition may not be consummated by reason of failure to satisfy such conditions.  If the Acquisition is not completed within the expected time frame, such delay could result in additional transaction costs, termination fees, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the Acquisition, as well as could negatively affect the benefits we expect to obtain from the Acquisition.. We may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from the Acquisition.. The benefits that are expected to result from the Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and the expected synergies derived from manufacturing optimization and lower logistic costs. Our success in realizing these growth opportunities and synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of the Pine Chemical Business. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition as sizable as the Pine Chemical Business. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our and the Pine Chemical Business' activities. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage other aspects of our business, service existing customers, attract new customers and develop new products or strategies. If senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. There can be no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate the Pine Chemical Business. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Even if we are able to integrate the Pine Chemical Business successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and synergies that we currently expect from this integration, and we cannot guarantee that these benefits will be achieved within anticipated time frames or at all. For example, we may not be able to achieve the expected synergies from manufacturing optimization and lower logistics costs, or the associated costs may be greater than we expect. Any of these would offset the anticipated benefits from the planned Acquisition.. Risks Relating to Ingevity's Common Stock. The price of Ingevity's common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of Ingevity common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond Ingevity's control, including:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in Ingevity's operating results;. • changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or Ingevity's ability to meet those estimates;. • the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies;. • changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which Ingevity operates; and. • domestic and worldwide economic conditions.. We cannot guarantee the timing, amount or payment of any dividends on our common stock in the future.. The payment and amount of any dividend is subject to the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition and prospects, our capital requirements and access to capital markets, covenants. 27. Index. associated with certain of our debt obligations, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant, and there can be no assurances that we will pay a dividend.. Your percentage of ownership in Ingevity may be diluted in the future.. A stockholder's percentage ownership in Ingevity may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including, without limitation, equity awards that we may be granting to our directors, officers and employees. Such awards will have a dilutive effect on Ingevity's earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of Ingevity's common stock. From time to time, Ingevity will issue additional options or other stock-based awards to certain employees under Ingevity's employee benefits plans.. In addition, Ingevity's amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes Ingevity to issue, without the approval of Ingevity's stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over Ingevity's common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as Ingevity's board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of Ingevity's common stock. For example, Ingevity could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of Ingevity's directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences Ingevity could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. Certain provisions in Ingevity's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of Ingevity, which could depress the trading price of Ingevity's common stock.. Ingevity's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with Ingevity's board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:. • the inability of Ingevity's stockholders to act by written consent;. • rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings;. • the right of Ingevity's board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval;. • the ability of Ingevity's remaining directors to fill vacancies on Ingevity's board of directors;. • the separation of Ingevity's board of directors into three classes of directors, which classification will terminate beginning at the Company's 2019 annual meeting;. • the inability of Ingevity's stockholders to remove directors other than for cause while the board is classified; and. • the requirement that the affirmative vote of holders of at least 75% of Ingevity's outstanding voting stock is required to amend certain provisions of Ingevity's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws.. In addition, because Ingevity has not chosen to be exempt from Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with persons that acquire, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation's outstanding voting stock.. Ingevity believes these provisions will protect its stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with Ingevity's board of directors and by providing Ingevity's board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make Ingevity immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that Ingevity's board of directors determines is not in the best interests of Ingevity and Ingevity's stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.. 28. Index. There could be significant liability if the separation were determined to be a taxable transaction.. In connection with the separation, our former parent received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the requirements for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code would be satisfied. The opinion relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from our former parent and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings were incorrect or not satisfied, we and our stockholders may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities.. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the IRS could determine upon audit that the separation is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings were incorrect or violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the share ownership of our company or our former parent after the separation. If the separation were determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our former parent and its stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, and we could incur significant liabilities.. Ingevity's amended and restated bylaws designate the state courts within the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by Ingevity's stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against Ingevity and Ingevity's directors and officers.. Ingevity's amended and restated bylaws provide that unless the board of directors otherwise determines, a state court within the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of Ingevity, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director of officer of Ingevity to Ingevity or Ingevity's stockholders, creditors or other constituents, any action asserting a claim against Ingevity or any director or officer of Ingevity arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, or Ingevity's amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against Ingevity or any director or officer of Ingevity governed by the internal affairs doctrine. However, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the action may be brought in the federal district court for the District of Delaware. Although Ingevity's amended and restated bylaws include this exclusive forum provision, it is possible that a court could rule that this provision is inapplicable or unenforceable. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of Ingevity's stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with Ingevity or Ingevity's directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against Ingevity and Ingevity's directors and officers. Alternatively, if a court were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, Ingevity may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect Ingevity's business, financial condition or results of operations."
