[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business and assets are subject to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty. The following are factors that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws that are contained in this Form 10-K or in our other filings or statements may be subject to the risks described below as well as other risks and uncertainties. Please read the cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements in Item 7 below.. Changes in consumer preferences and perceptions may lessen the demand for our products, which could reduce our sales and profitability and harm our business.. Food products are often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions and demographic trends. For instance, changes in prevailing health or dietary preferences causing consumers to avoid food products containing sweetener products, including high fructose corn syrup, in favor of foods that are perceived as being more healthy, could reduce our sales and profitability, and such reductions could be material. Increasing concern among consumers, public health professionals and government agencies about the potential health concerns associated with obesity and inactive lifestyles (reflected, for instance, in taxes designed to combat obesity, which have been imposed recently in North America) represent a significant challenge to some of our customers, including those engaged in the food and soft drink industries.. Current economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others with whom we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. Economic conditions in South America, the European Union, and many other countries and regions in which we do business have experienced various levels of weakness over the last few years, and may remain challenging for the foreseeable future. General business and economic conditions that could affect us include the strength of the economies in which we operate, unemployment, inflation, and fluctuations in debt markets. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in the financial markets.. There could be a number of other effects from these economic developments on our business, including reduced consumer demand for products, pressure to extend our customers' payment terms, insolvency of our customers resulting in increased provisions for credit losses, decreased customer demand, including order delays or cancellations, and counterparty failures negatively impacting our operations.. In connection with our defined benefit pension plans, adverse changes in investment returns earned on pension assets and discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities or changes in required pension funding levels may have an unfavorable impact on future pension expense and cash flow.. In addition, the volatile worldwide economic conditions and market instability may make it difficult for us, our customers, and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could cause us to produce excess products that could increase our inventory carrying costs. Alternatively, this forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of products that could result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products.. Our reliance on certain industries for a significant portion of our sales could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Approximately 53 percent of our 2017 sales were made to companies engaged in the food industry and approximately 12 percent were made to companies in the beverage industry. Additionally, sales to the animal nutrition and paper and corrugating industries each represented approximately 10 percent of our 2017 net sales. Net sales to the brewing industry represented approximately 7 percent of our 2017 net sales. If our food customers, beverage customers,. 19. Table of Contents. animal feed customers, paper and corrugating customers, or brewing industry customers were to substantially decrease their purchases, our business might be materially adversely affected.. The uncertainty of acceptance of products developed through biotechnology could affect our profitability.. The commercial success of agricultural products developed through biotechnology, including genetically modified corn, depends in part on public acceptance of their development, cultivation, distribution and consumption. Public attitudes can be influenced by claims that genetically modified products are unsafe for consumption or that they pose unknown risks to the environment, even if such claims are not based on scientific studies. These public attitudes can influence regulatory and legislative decisions about biotechnology. The sale of our products, which may contain genetically modified corn, could be delayed or impaired because of adverse public perception regarding the safety of our products and the potential effects of these products on animals, human health, and the environment.. Our future growth could be negatively impacted if we fail to introduce sufficient new products and services.. While we do not believe that any individual patent or trademark is material to our business, a portion of our growth comes from innovation in products, processes, and services. We cannot guarantee that our research and development efforts will result in new products and services at a rate or of a quality sufficient to meet expectations.. We operate in a highly competitive environment and it may be difficult to preserve operating margins and maintain market share.. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Many of our products compete with virtually identical or similar products manufactured by other companies in the starch and sweetener industry. In the U.S., there are competitors, several of which are divisions of larger enterprises that have greater financial resources than we do. Some of these competitors, unlike us, have vertically integrated their corn refining and other operations. Many of our products also compete with products made from raw materials other than corn, including cane and beet sugar. Fluctuation in prices of these competing products may affect prices of, and profits derived from, our products. In addition, government programs supporting sugar prices indirectly impact the price of corn sweeteners, especially high fructose corn syrup. Competition in markets in which we compete is largely based on price, quality and product availability.. Due to market volatility, we cannot assure that we can adequately pass potential increases in the cost of corn and other raw materials on to customers through product price increases or purchase quantities of corn and other raw materials at prices sufficient to sustain or increase our profitability.. The price and availability of corn and other raw materials is influenced by economic and industry conditions, including supply and demand factors such as crop disease and severe weather conditions, such as drought, floods, or frost, that are difficult to anticipate and which we cannot control.. Raw material and energy price fluctuations, and supply interruptions and shortages could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our finished products are made primarily from corn. Purchased corn and other raw material costs account for between 40 percent and 65 percent of finished product costs. Some of our products are based upon specific varieties of corn that are produced in significantly less volumes than yellow dent corn. These specialty grains are higher-cost due to their more limited supply and require planning cycles of up to three years in order for us to receive our desired amount of specialty corn. We also manufacture certain starch-based products from potatoes. Our current potato starch requirements constitute a material portion of the total available North American supply. It is possible that, in the long term, continued growth in demand for potato starch-based ingredients and new product development could result in capacity constraints. Also, we utilize tapioca in the manufacturing of starch products primarily in Thailand, as well as pulses, gum, rice and other raw materials around the world. A significant supply disruption or sharp increase in any of these raw material prices that we are unable to recover through pricing increases to our customers could have an adverse impact on our growth and profitability.. 20. Table of Contents. Energy costs represent approximately 10 percent of our finished product costs. We use energy primarily to create steam in production processes and to dry products. We consume coal, natural gas, electricity, wood, and fuel oil to generate energy. In Pakistan, the overall economy has been slowed by severe energy shortages which both negatively impact our ability to produce sweeteners and starches, and also negatively impact the demand from our customers due to their inability to produce their end products because of the shortage of reliable energy.. The market prices for our raw materials may vary considerably depending on supply and demand, world economies, and other factors. We purchase these commodities based on our anticipated usage and future outlook for these costs. We cannot assure that we will be able to purchase these commodities at prices that we can adequately pass on to customers to sustain or increase profitability.. In North America, we sell a large portion of our finished products derived from corn at firm prices established in supply contracts typically lasting for periods of up to one year. In order to minimize the effect of volatility in the cost of corn related to these firm-priced supply contracts, we enter into corn futures and options contracts, or take other hedging positions in the corn futures market. Additionally, we produce and sell ethanol and enter into swap contracts to hedge price risk associated with fluctuations in market prices of ethanol. We are unable to directly hedge price risk related to co-product sales; however, we occasionally enter into hedges of soybean oil (a competing product to our animal feed and corn oil) in order to mitigate the price risk of animal feed and corn oil sales. These derivative contracts typically mature within one year. At expiration, we settle the derivative contracts at a net amount equal to the difference between the then-current price of the commodity (corn, soybean oil, or ethanol) and the derivative contract price. These hedging instruments are subject to fluctuations in value; however, changes in the value of the underlying exposures we are hedging generally offset such fluctuations. The fluctuations in the fair value of these hedging instruments may affect our cash flow. We fund any unrealized losses or receive cash for any unrealized gains on futures contracts on a daily basis. While the corn futures contracts or hedging positions are intended to minimize the effect of volatility of corn costs on operating profits, the hedging activity can result in losses, some of which may be material. Outside of North America, sales of finished products under long-term, firm-priced supply contracts are not material. We also use over-the-counter natural gas swaps to hedge portions of our natural gas costs, primarily in our North America operations.. An inability to contain costs could adversely affect our future profitability and growth.. Our future profitability and growth depends on our ability to contain operating costs and per unit product costs and to maintain and implement effective cost control programs, while at the same time maintaining competitive pricing and superior quality products, customer service, and support. Our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure depends on continued containment of manufacturing, delivery, and administrative costs, as well as the implementation of cost-effective purchasing programs for raw materials, energy, and related manufacturing requirements.. If we are unable to contain our operating costs and maintain the productivity and reliability of our production facilities, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected.. Increased interest rates could increase our borrowing costs.. We may issue securities to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures, and working capital, or for other general corporate purposes. An increase in interest rates in the general economy could result in an increase in our borrowing costs for these financings, as well as under any existing debt that bears interest at an unhedged floating rate.. Future costs of environmental compliance may be material.. Our business could be affected in the future by national and global regulation or taxation of greenhouse gas emissions. In the U.S., the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") has adopted regulations requiring the owners and operators of certain facilities to measure and report their greenhouse gas emission. The EPA has also begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from certain stationary and mobile sources under the Clean Air Act. For example, the EPA has proposed rules regarding the construction and operation of coal-fired boilers. California and Ontario are also moving forward with various programs to reduce greenhouse gases. Globally, a number of countries that are parties to the Kyoto Protocol have instituted or are considering climate change legislation and regulations. Most notable is the European Union. 21. Table of Contents. Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading System. It is difficult at this time to estimate the likelihood of passage or predict the potential impact of any additional legislation. Potential consequences could include increased energy, transportation, and raw materials costs and we may be required to make additional investments in our facilities and equipment.. We may not successfully identify and complete acquisitions or strategic alliances on favorable terms or achieve anticipated synergies relating to any acquisitions or alliances, and such acquisitions could result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and require significant management resources.. We regularly review potential acquisitions of complementary businesses, technologies, services, or products, as well as potential strategic alliances. We may be unable to find suitable acquisition candidates or appropriate partners with which to form partnerships or strategic alliances. Even if we identify appropriate acquisition or alliance candidates, we may be unable to complete such acquisitions or alliances on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired business, technology, service, or product into our existing business and operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may require significant management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or strategic alliance, and such transactions may not generate anticipated financial results. Future acquisitions could also require us to issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities, or amortize expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could harm our business.. Operating difficulties at our manufacturing plants could adversely affect our operating results.. Producing starches and sweeteners through corn refining is a capital intensive industry. We have 44 plants and have preventive maintenance and de-bottlenecking programs designed to maintain and improve grind capacity and facility reliability. If we encounter operating difficulties at a plant for an extended period of time or start-up problems with any capital improvement projects, we may not be able to meet a portion of sales order commitments and could incur significantly higher operating expenses, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. We also use boilers to generate steam required in our manufacturing processes. An event that impaired the operation of a boiler for an extended period of time could have a significant adverse effect on the operations of any plant in which such event occurred.. Also, we are subject to risks related to such matters as product safety and quality; compliance with environmental, health and safety and food safety regulations; and customer product liability claims. The liabilities that could result from these risks may not always be covered by, or could exceed the limits of, our insurance coverage related to product liability and food safety matters. In addition, negative publicity caused by product liability and food safety matters may damage our reputation. The occurrence of any of the matters described above could adversely affect our revenues and operating results.. We operate a multinational business subject to the economic, political, and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries and with foreign currencies.. We have operated in foreign countries and with foreign currencies for many years. Our results are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuations. Our operations are subject to political, economic, and other risks. There has been and continues to be significant political uncertainty in some countries in which we operate. Economic changes, terrorist activity, and political unrest may result in business interruption or decreased demand for our products. Protectionist trade measures and import and export licensing requirements could also adversely affect our results of operations. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage continued global political and economic uncertainty.. We primarily sell products derived from world commodities. Historically, we have been able to adjust local prices relatively quickly to offset the effect of local currency devaluations, although we cannot guarantee our ability to do this in the future. For example, due to pricing controls on many consumer products imposed in the recent past by the Argentine government, it takes longer than it had previously taken to achieve pricing improvement in response to currency devaluations in that country. The anticipated strength in the U.S. dollar may continue to provide some challenges, as it could take an extended period of time to fully recapture the impact of foreign currency devaluations, particularly in South America.. 22. Table of Contents. We may hedge transactions that are denominated in a currency other than the currency of the operating unit entering into the underlying transaction. We are subject to the risks normally attendant to such hedging activities.. Our information technology systems, processes, and sites may suffer interruptions or failures which may affect our ability to conduct our business.. Our information technology systems, which are dependent on services provided by third parties, provide critical data connectivity, information, and services for internal and external users. These interactions include, but are not limited to: ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting raw materials to finished products, inventory management, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, human resources benefits and payroll management, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, and other processes necessary to manage our business. We have put in place security measures to protect ourselves against cyber-based attacks and disaster recovery plans for our critical systems. However, if our information technology systems are breached, damaged, or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, such as catastrophic events, power outages, security breaches, or cyber-based attacks, and our disaster recovery plans do not effectively mitigate on a timely basis, we may encounter disruptions that could interrupt our ability to manage our operations and suffer damage to our reputation, which may adversely impact our revenues, operating results, and financial condition.. Our profitability could be negatively impacted if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations.. Approximately 31 percent of our U.S. and 37 percent of our non-U.S. employees are members of unions. Strikes, lockouts, or other work stoppages or slowdowns involving our unionized employees could have a material adverse effect on us.. Natural disasters, war, acts and threats of terrorism, pandemics, and other significant events could negatively impact our business.. If the economies of any countries in which we sell or manufacture products or purchase raw materials are affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, or severe weather; war, acts of war, or terrorism; or the outbreak of a pandemic; it could result in asset write-offs, decreased sales and overall reduced cash flows.. Government policies and regulations could adversely affect our operating results.. Our operating results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, and other activities of the U.S. and foreign governments, agencies, and similar organizations. These conditions include but are not limited to changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, modification or termination of trade agreements or treaties promoting free trade, creation of new trade agreements or treaties, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, currency exchange rate fluctuations, burdensome taxes and tariffs, and other trade barriers. International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities, and war, could limit our ability to transact business in these markets and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results.. Due to cross-border disputes, our operations could be adversely affected by actions taken by the governments of countries in which we conduct business.. The recognition of impairment charges on goodwill or long-lived assets could adversely impact our future financial position and results of operations.. We have $1.3 billion of total intangible assets at December 31, 2017, consisting of $803 million of goodwill and $493 million of other intangible assets. Additionally, we have $2.4 billion of long-lived assets at December 31, 2017.. We perform an annual impairment assessment for goodwill and our indefinite-lived intangible assets, and as necessary, for other long-lived assets. If the results of such assessments were to show that the fair value of these assets. 23. Table of Contents. were less than the carrying values, we could be required to recognize a charge for impairment of goodwill or long-lived assets, and the amount of the impairment charge could be material. Based on the results of the annual assessment, we concluded that as of October 1, 2017, it was more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting units was greater than their carrying value. We continue to monitor our reporting units in struggling economies and recent acquisitions for challenges in the business that may negatively impact the fair value of these reporting units.. Even though it was determined that there was no additional long-lived asset impairment as of October 1, 2017, the future occurrence of a potential indicator of impairment, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate that would require a change in our assumptions or strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions, could require us to perform an assessment prior to the next required assessment date of October 1, 2018.. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various other foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in tax laws, or tax rates changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and material adjustments from tax audits.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\"), which was enacted in December 2017, significantly alters existing U.S. tax law and includes numerous and complex provisions that substantially affect our business. The TCJA contains a provision that requires recognition of a liability for taxes on the deemed repatriation of our offshore earnings. In addition, the reduction in the corporate tax rate to 21 percent requires us to remeasure deferred income taxes. The provisional impact of the tax on the deemed repatriation of earnings along with the impact of the remeasurement of deferred income taxes has been recorded in income tax from continuing operations in 2017. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, the underlying calculations are not complete and evolving analyses and interpretations could result in material adjustments to these estimates in 2018.. The TCJA also creates a new requirement that the global intangible low-taxed income (\"GILTI\") of our foreign affiliates must be included currently in our U.S. taxable income beginning in 2018. The GILTI provisions are extremely complex and their application to our facts and circumstances remains unclear. The application of the GILTI provisions could materially increase our effective tax rate in 2018 and beyond.. Significant changes in the tax laws of the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions in which we do business could result from the base erosion and profit shifting (\"BEPS\") project undertaken by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (\"OECD\"). An OECD-led coalition of 44 countries is contemplating changes to long-standing international tax norms that determine each country's right to tax cross-border transactions. These contemplated changes, if finalized and adopted by countries, would increase tax uncertainty and the risk of double taxation, thereby adversely affecting our provision for income taxes.. The recoverability of our deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in Brazil, Canada, Germany, Mexico, and the U.S., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in these jurisdictions. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability and cash flows.. We may not have access to the funds required for future growth and expansion.. We may need additional funds to grow and expand our operations. We expect to fund our capital expenditures from operating cash flow to the extent we are able to do so. If our operating cash flow is insufficient to fund our capital expenditures, we may either reduce our capital expenditures or utilize our general credit facilities. For further strategic growth through mergers or acquisitions, we may also seek to generate additional liquidity through the sale of debt or equity securities in private or public markets or through the sale of non-productive assets. We cannot provide any assurance that our cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund anticipated capital expenditures or that we will be able to obtain additional funds from financial markets or from the sale of assets at terms favorable to us. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or raise sufficient additional funds to cover our capital expenditures or other strategic growth opportunities, we may not be able to achieve our desired operating efficiencies and expansion plans, which may adversely. 24. Table of Contents. impact our competitiveness and, therefore, our results of operations. Our working capital requirements, including margin requirements on open positions on futures exchanges, are directly affected by the price of corn and other agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly.. Volatility in the stock market, fluctuations in quarterly operating results, and other factors could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. The market price for our common stock may be significantly affected by factors such as our announcement of new products or services or such announcements by our competitors; technological innovation by us, our competitors or other vendors; quarterly variations in our operating results or the operating results of our competitors; general conditions in our or our customers' markets; and changes in the earnings estimates by analysts or reported results that vary materially from such estimates. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies that have been unrelated to the operating performance of any individual company.. No assurance can be given that we will continue to pay dividends.. The payment of dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be subject to our financial results and the availability of statutory surplus funds to pay dividends.. Our profitability may be affected by other factors beyond our control.. Our operating income and ability to increase profitability depend to a large extent upon our ability to price finished products at a level that will cover manufacturing and raw material costs and provide an acceptable profit margin. Our ability to maintain appropriate price levels is determined by a number of factors largely beyond our control, such as aggregate industry supply and market demand, which may vary from time to time, and the economic conditions of the geographic regions in which we conduct our operations."
