[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below are certain risk factors that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the following risk factors, together with the financial statements, related notes and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer if any of the following risks are realized. If any of these risks or uncertainties occur, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that contain risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the discussion of \"forward-looking statements\" on page four of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described below.. Risks Related to Our Business. Competition could substantially impair our business and our operating results. We compete with companies in the manufacturing of marketing related products, including printed materials, in-store displays, packaging materials, graphics art and digital imaging and fulfillment and logistics. Competition in these industries is intense. Our primary competitors are manufacturers that employ traditional methods of marketing and selling their marketing materials. Some of these manufacturers have larger client bases and significantly more resources than we do. Buyers may prefer to utilize the traditional services offered by the manufacturers with whom we compete. Alternatively, some of these manufacturers may elect to offer outsourced print procurement services or enterprise software applications and their well-established client relationships, industry knowledge, brand recognition, financial and marketing capabilities, technical resources and pricing flexibility may provide them with a competitive advantage over us.. We also compete with a number of management firms and brokers. Several of these competitors offer outsourced procurement services or enterprise software applications for the marketing industry. These competitors or new competitors that enter the market, may also offer procurement services similar to and competitive with or superior to, our current or proposed offerings and may achieve greater market acceptance. In addition, a software solution and database similar to our proprietary technology could be created over time by a competitor with sufficient financial resources and comparable industry experience. If our competitors are able to offer comparable services, we could lose clients and our market share could decline.. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships to increase their ability to address client needs. Increased competition may lead to revenue reductions, reduced gross margins or a loss of market share, any one of which could harm our business and our operating results.. If our services do not achieve widespread commercial acceptance, our business will suffer.. Most companies currently coordinate the procurement and management of their marketing materials with their own employees using a combination of telephone, e-mail, their own technology platforms and the Internet. Growth in the demand for our services depends on the adoption of our outsourcing model for marketing related procurement services. We may not be able to persuade prospective clients to change their traditional procurement processes. Our business could suffer if our services are not accepted or are not perceived by the marketplace to be effective or valuable.. If our suppliers do not meet our needs or expectations or those of our clients, our business would suffer.. The success of our business depends to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high quality marketing materials and marketing execution services. We do not own manufacturing equipment. Instead, we rely on third-party suppliers to deliver the products and services that we provide to our clients. As a result, we do not directly control the products manufactured or the services provided by our suppliers. If our suppliers do not meet our needs or expectations or those of our clients, our professional reputation may be damaged, our business would be harmed and we could be subject to legal liability.. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a relatively limited number of large clients and any loss or decrease in sales to these clients could harm our results of operations.. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a relatively limited number of large clients. Revenue from our top ten clients accounted for 28%, 27% and 27% of our revenue during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our largest client accounted for 5%, 5% and 5% of our revenue in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We are likely to continue to. 9. experience ongoing client concentration, particularly if we are successful in attracting large clients. Moreover, there may be a loss or reduction in business from one or more of our large clients. It is also possible that revenue from these clients, either individually or as a group, may not reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. The loss or significant reduction of business from our major clients would adversely affect our results of operations.. A significant or prolonged economic downturn or a dramatic decline in the demand for marketing materials, could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. Our results of operations are affected directly by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity and cyclicality in the industries and markets that they serve. Certain of our products are sold to industries, including the advertising, retail, consumer products, housing, financial and pharmaceutical industries, that experience significant fluctuations in demand based on general economic conditions, cyclicality and other factors beyond our control. Continued economic uncertainty or an economic downturn could result in a reduction of the marketing budgets of our clients or a decrease in the number of marketing materials that our clients order from us. Reduced demand from one of these industries or markets could negatively affect our revenues, operating income and profitability.. A significant decrease in the number of our suppliers could adversely affect our business.. Our suppliers are not contractually required to continue to accept orders from us. If production capacity at a significant number of our suppliers becomes unavailable, we will be required to use fewer suppliers, which could significantly limit our ability to serve our clients on competitive terms. In addition, we rely on price bids provided by our suppliers to populate our database. If the number of our suppliers decreases significantly, we may not be able to obtain sufficient pricing information for our database, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain favorable pricing for our clients and negatively impact our operating income and profitability.. We may face difficulties as we expand our operations into countries in which we have limited operating experience.. Aggregate revenue from our International segment represented 32%, 33% and 31% of total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We intend to expand our global footprint, which may involve expanding into countries other than those in which we currently operate or increasing our operations in countries where we currently have limited operations and resources. Our business outside of the United States is subject to various risks, including:. • changes in economic and political conditions;. • changes in and compliance with international and domestic laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act;. • wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts;. • natural disasters;. • compliance with and changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements and taxation;. • difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations;. • limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls;. • political and economic corruption;. • less developed and less predictable legal systems than those in the United States; and. • intellectual property laws of countries which do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may lead to significant legal or compliance expenses and may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region or result in the loss of clients in the affected region or other regions, which could adversely affect our revenue, operating income and profitability.. As we expand our business in foreign countries, we will become exposed to increased risk of loss from foreign currency fluctuations and exchange controls, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies, as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. We have limited control over these risks and if we do not correctly anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions, we may not alter our business practices in time to avoid adverse effects.. The European economy continues to experience overall weakness as a result of lingering high unemployment, sovereign debt issues and tightening of government budgets. Continued weak economic conditions in Europe could adversely affect our results of operations in the European countries in which we conduct business. Additionally, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain of the countries that have adopted the Euro currency (the \"Euro zone\") and their ability to meet future financial obligations, as well as concerns regarding the overall stability of the Euro to function as a single currency among the diverse economic, social. 10. and political circumstances within the Euro zone. We conduct a portion of our business in Euro. Although it remains uncertain whether significant changes in the utilization of the Euro will occur or what the potential impact of such changes in the Euro zone or globally might be, a material shift in circulation of the Euro could result in disruptions to our business and negatively impact our results of operations.. The United Kingdom's referendum to leave the European Union or \"Brexit,\" has and may continue to cause disruptions to capital and currency markets worldwide. The full impact of the Brexit decision, however, remains uncertain. A process of negotiation will determine the future terms of the United Kingdom's relationship with the European Union. During this period of negotiation, our results of operations and access to capital may be negatively affected by interest rate, exchange rate and other market and economic volatility, as well as regulatory and political uncertainty. Brexit may also have a detrimental effect on our customers, distributors and suppliers, which would, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition.. We are subject to taxation related risks in multiple jurisdictions.. We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. While we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, it is possible that these positions may be overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities, which may have a significant impact on our global provision for income taxes.  Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. We are also subject to ongoing tax audits. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve and can be highly subjective. Tax authorities may disagree with certain tax reporting positions taken by us and, as a result, assess additional taxes against us. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive Federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Act\"). The newly enacted Act, makes changes to the corporate tax rate, business-related deductions and taxation of foreign earnings, among others, that will generally be effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.. The changes effected by the Act required us to remeasure existing deferred tax assets and liabilities using our new statutory rate and to include a provisional one time transition tax expense related to the deemed repatriation of certain foreign earnings and profits. This amount is payable over eight years. We have not completed our accounting for the income tax effects of certain elements of the Act, including the new GILTI and BEAT taxes. Due to the complexity of these new tax rules, we are continuing to evaluate these provisions of the Act. As a result, we have not included an estimate of the tax expense/benefit related to these items for the period ended December 31, 2017.. In addition, governmental tax authorities are increasingly scrutinizing the tax positions of companies. Many countries in the European Union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. The impact of tax reform in the US or other foreign tax law changes could result in an overall tax rate increase to our business.. If we are unable to retain and expand the number of our account executives or if a significant number of our account executives leave InnerWorkings, our ability to increase our revenues could be negatively impacted.. Our ability to expand our business will depend largely on our ability to attract and retain account executives with established client relationships. Competition for qualified account executives can be challenging and we may be unable to hire such individuals. Any difficulties we experience in expanding or retaining the number of our account executives could have a negative impact on our ability to expand our client base, increase our revenue and continue our growth.. In addition, we must properly incentivize our account executives to obtain new clients and maintain existing client relationships. If a significant number of our account executives leave InnerWorkings and take their clients with them, our revenue could be negatively impacted. Although we have entered into non-competition agreements with our account executives, we may need to litigate to enforce our rights under these agreements, which could be time-consuming, expensive and ineffective. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our current account executives could also increase our recruiting costs and decrease our operating efficiency and productivity, which could lead to a decline in the demand for our services.. If we are unable to expand our client base, our revenue growth rate may be negatively impacted.. 11. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to attract new clients and expand relationships with existing clients. If we are unable to attract new clients or expand our relationships with our existing clients, our ability to grow our business will be hindered.. Most of our clients may terminate their relationships with us on short notice with no or limited penalties.. Many of our clients use our services on an order-by-order basis rather than under long-term contracts. These clients have no obligation to continue using our services and may stop purchasing from us at any time. We have entered into long-term contracts and contract renewals with many of our clients, which are generally for three to five year initial terms. Most of these contracts, however, permit the clients to terminate our engagements upon prior notice, typically ranging from 90 days to 12 months with limited or no penalties.. The volume and type of services we provide our clients may vary from year to year and could be reduced if a client were to change its outsourcing or procurement strategy. If a significant number of our clients elect to terminate or not to renew their engagements with us or if the volume of their orders decreases, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer.. We may not be able to develop or implement new systems, procedures and controls that are required to support the continued growth in our operations.. Our business continues to grow in size and complexity, and continued growth could place a significant strain on our ability to:. • recruit, motivate and retain qualified account executives, production managers and management personnel;. • preserve our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment;. • develop and improve our internal administrative infrastructure and execution standards; and. • maintain high levels of client satisfaction.. To manage our growth, we must implement and maintain proper operational and financial controls and systems. Further, we will need to manage our relationships with various clients and suppliers. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to develop and implement, on a timely basis, the systems, procedures and controls required to support the growth in our operations or effectively manage our relationships with various clients and suppliers. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our business and stock price may be adversely affected if our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, each year we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting; our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we reported that management identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017. See \"Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.\". We cannot assure that we will not discover other material weaknesses in the future. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could result in errors to our financial statements and substantial costs and resources may be required to correct and remediate internal control deficiencies and to defend litigation. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business and our business and financial results could deteriorate.. We adopted the new required revenue recognition standard, which took effect as of January 1, 2018, and we may have difficulties implementing this standard.. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issued Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (\"ASC 606\"), which has been subsequently updated.  We adopted the provisions in ASC 606, as amended, on January 1, 2018 under the modified retrospective method and will only apply this method to contracts that are not completed as of the date of adoption.  To comply with the requirements of ASC 606 as of January 1, 2018, we are continuing to update and enhance our internal accounting systems, operational processes and our internal controls over financial reporting. If we are not successful in updating our policies, procedures, information systems and internal controls over financial reporting, the revenue that we recognize and the related disclosures that we provide under ASC 606 may not be complete or accurate,. 12. which could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.  This implementation work has required, and will continue to require, additional investments by us, which could increase our operating costs in future periods. Further, the regulatory guidance for ASC 606 will likely evolve over time, which could adversely impact our financial results (including potentially results reported prior to such evolution) and require changes to our disclosures and internal systems, processes, and controls.. The global integration of our technology platform may result in business interruptions.. We are currently implementing a common technology platform across our global operations. The implementation of and such changes to our technology platform and related software carry risks such as cost overruns, project delays and business interruptions and delays. If we experience a material business interruption as a result of this process, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. Security and privacy breaches may damage client relations and inhibit our growth.. The secure and uninterrupted operation of our information technology systems is critical to our business. Despite the security measures that we have implemented, including those measures related to cybersecurity, our systems, as well as those of our customers, suppliers and other service providers could be breached or damaged by computer viruses, malware, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks, natural or man-made incidents or disasters, or unauthorized physical or electronic access. These types of incidents have become more prevalent and pervasive across industries, including in our industry, and are expected to continue in the future. A breach could result in business disruption, theft of our intellectual property, trade secrets or customer information and unauthorized access to personnel information. Although cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our information technology systems from attack, damage or unauthorized access are a high priority for us, our activities and investment may not be deployed quickly enough or successfully protect our systems against all vulnerabilities, including technologies developed to bypass our security measures. In addition, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers to disclose access credentials or other sensitive information in order to gain access to our secure systems and networks. There are no assurances that our actions and investments to improve the maturity of our systems, processes and risk management framework or remediate vulnerabilities will be sufficient or completed quickly enough to prevent or limit the impact of any cyber intrusion. Moreover, because the techniques used to gain access to or sabotage systems often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate the methods necessary to defend against these types of attacks and we cannot predict the extent, frequency or impact these problems may have on us. To the extent that our business is interrupted or data is lost, destroyed or inappropriately used or disclosed, such disruptions could adversely affect our competitive position, relationships with our customers, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against the damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. We are also dependent on security measures that some of our third-party customers, suppliers and other service providers take to protect their own systems and infrastructures. Some of these third parties store or have access to certain of our sensitive data, as well as confidential information about their own operations, and as such are subject to their own cybersecurity threats.. Any security breach of any of these third-parties' systems could result in unauthorized access to our information technology systems, cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws or regulations, subject us to legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, any of which could adversely affect our financial performance.. A decrease in levels of excess capacity in the commercial print industry could have an adverse impact on our business.. We believe that for the past several years the U.S. commercial print industry has experienced significant levels of excess capacity. Our business seeks to capitalize on imbalances between supply and demand in the print industry by obtaining favorable pricing terms from suppliers in our network with excess capacity. Reduced excess capacity in the print industry generally and in our supplier network specifically, could have an adverse impact on our ability to execute our business strategy and on our business results and growth prospects.. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights may impair our competitive position.. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors could replicate our proprietary technology and processes and offer similar services, which would harm our competitive position. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate or that third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our rights or imitate or duplicate our services and methodologies. We may need to litigate to enforce our. 13. intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the rights of others. Any such litigation could be time-consuming and costly.. If we are unable to maintain our proprietary technology, demand for our services and therefore our revenue could decrease.. We rely heavily on our proprietary technology to procure marketing materials for our clients. To keep pace with changing technologies and client demands, we must correctly interpret and address market trends and enhance the features and functionality of our technology in response to these trends, which may lead to significant research and development costs. We may be unable to accurately determine the needs of buyers or the trends in the marketing industry or to design and implement the appropriate features and functionality of our technology in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could result in decreased demand for our services and a corresponding decrease in our revenue.. In addition, we must protect our systems against physical damage from fire, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hacker attacks, physical break-ins and similar events. Any software or hardware damage or failure that causes interruption or an increase in response time of our proprietary technology could reduce client satisfaction and decrease usage of our services.. If the key members of our management team do not remain with us in the future, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the successful transition of Chief Executive Officer responsibilities from Eric Belcher, our current Chief Executive Officer, to Rich Stoddart, whose appointment as successor Chief Executive Officer takes effect on April 5, 2018.  Following the Chief Executive Officer succession, our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued services of Rich Stoddart, Charles Hodgkins, our Interim Chief Financial Officer, Robert Burkart, our Chief Information Officer and Ron Provenzano, our General Counsel. The loss of the services of these individuals could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition and could divert other senior management time in searching for their replacements.. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, effectively integrate newly acquired businesses or achieve expected profitability from acquisitions.. Part of our growth strategy is to increase our revenue and the markets that we serve through the acquisition of additional businesses. We are actively considering certain acquisitions and will likely consider others in the future. There can be no assurance that suitable candidates for acquisitions can be identified or, if suitable candidates are identified, that acquisitions can be completed on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if suitable candidates are identified, any future acquisitions may entail a number of risks that could adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock, including the integration of the acquired operations, diversion of management's attention, risks of entering markets in which we have limited experience, adverse short-term effects on our reported operating results, the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses and risks associated with unanticipated liabilities.. We have used and expect to continue to use, shares of our common stock to pay for all or a portion of our acquisitions. If the owners of potential acquisition candidates are not willing to receive our common stock in exchange for their businesses, our acquisition prospects could be limited. Future acquisitions could also result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and increased debt and contingent liabilities, including liabilities related to unknown or undisclosed circumstances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock.. Our business is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations, which could result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Our business is subject to some degree of sales seasonality. Historically, the percentage of our annual revenue earned during the third and fourth fiscal quarters has been higher due, in part, to a greater number of orders for marketing materials in anticipation of the year-end holiday season. If our business continues to experience seasonality, we may incur significant additional expenses during our third and fourth quarters, including additional staffing expenses. Consequently, if we were to experience lower than expected revenue during any future third or fourth quarter, whether from a general decline in economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, our expenses may not be offset, which would have a disproportionate impact on our operating results and financial condition for that year. Such fluctuations in our operating results could result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. 14. Price fluctuations in raw materials costs could adversely affect the margins on our orders.. Our business relies on a constant supply of various raw materials, including paper and ink. Prices within the print industry are directly affected by the cost of paper, which is purchased in a price sensitive market that has historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality. Prices are also affected by the cost of ink. Our profit margin and profitability are largely a function of the rates that our suppliers charge us compared to the rates that we charge our clients. If our suppliers increase the price of our orders and we are not able to find suitable or alternative suppliers, our profit margin may decline.. If any of our products cause damages or injuries, we may experience product liability claims.. Clients and third parties who claim to suffer damages or an injury caused by our products may bring lawsuits against us. Defending lawsuits arising out of any of the products we provide to our clients could be costly and absorb substantial amounts of management attention, which could adversely affect our financial performance. A significant product liability judgment against us could harm our reputation and business.. If any of our key clients fails to pay for our services, our profitability would be negatively impacted.. In general, we take full title and risk of loss for the products we procure from our suppliers. Our obligation to pay our suppliers is not contingent upon receipt of payment from our clients. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, our revenue was $1,136.3 million, $1,090.7 million and $1,029.4 million, respectively and our top ten clients accounted for 28%, 27% and 27%, respectively, of such revenue. If any of our key clients fails to pay for our services, our profitability would be negatively impacted.. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing.. We may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. Additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile.. The trading prices of many small and mid-cap companies are highly volatile. Since our initial public offering in August 2006 through December 31, 2017, the closing sale price of our common stock as reported by the Nasdaq Global Market has ranged from a low of $1.92 on March 2, 2009 to a high of $18.69 on October 9, 2007.. Certain factors may continue to cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including:. • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • changes in economic and political conditions in the United States or abroad;. • success of competitive products or services;. • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of debt or equity securities;. • announcements by us, our competitors, our clients or our suppliers of significant products or services, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances;. • regulatory developments in the United States or foreign countries;. • litigation involving our company, our general industry or both;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • investors' general perception of us; and. • changes in general industry and market conditions.. In addition, if the stock market experiences a loss of investor confidence, then the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. As a result, you could lose all or part of your investment.. 15. Our quarterly results are difficult to predict and may vary from quarter to quarter, which may result in our failure to meet the expectations of investors and increased volatility of our stock price.. The continued use of our services by our clients depends, in part, on the business activity of our clients and our ability to meet their cost saving needs, as well as their own changing business conditions. The time between our payment to the supplier and our receipt of payment from our clients varies with each job and client. In addition, a significant percentage of our revenue is subject to the discretion of our clients, who may stop using our services at any time, subject, in the case of most of our clients, to advance notice requirements. Therefore, the number, size and profitability of jobs may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fall below the expectations of current or potential investors in some future quarters, which could lead to significant variations in the market price of our stock. The factors that are likely to cause these variations include:. • the demand for our marketing execution solutions;. • the use of outsourced enterprise solutions;. • clients' business decisions regarding the quantities of marketing materials they purchase;. • the number, timing and profitability of our jobs, unanticipated contract terminations and job postponements;. • new product introductions and enhancements by our competitors;. • changes in our pricing policies;. • our ability to manage costs, including personnel costs; and. • costs related to possible acquisitions of other businesses.. We do not currently intend to pay dividends, which may limit the return on your investment.. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. If our board of directors authorizes the issuance of preferred stock, holders of our common stock could be diluted and harmed.. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to establish the preferred stock's voting powers, preferences and other rights and qualifications without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power and dividend liquidation rights of the holders of common stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire or discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. It is possible that we may need to raise capital through the sale of preferred stock in the future.. 16"
