[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. We have historically relied on a very limited number of clients that have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues, and our results of operations could be adversely affected if we were to lose one or more of these significant clients.. We have historically relied on a very limited number of clients that have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. Two clients in our DDS segment generated approximately 31% of our total revenues in each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. No other client accounted for 10% or more of total revenues during these periods. Further, in the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, revenues from non-US clients accounted for 51% and 49%, respectively, of our revenues. We may lose any of these clients, or our other major clients, as a result of our failure to meet or satisfy our client’s requirements, the completion or termination of a project or engagement, or the client’s selection of another service provider.. In addition, the volume of work performed for our major clients may vary from year to year, and services they require from us may change from year to year. They may also request that we modify certain key terms of our agreements with them as a condition of continuing to do business with us. If the volume of work performed for our major clients varies, if the services they require from us change, or if they require price concessions, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may incur a loss from operations. If certain key terms of our agreements with our major clients are modified, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our services are typically subject to client requirements, and in many cases are terminable upon 30 to 90 days’ notice.. 10. Our liquidity could be affected if our losses continue.. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and internally generated funds will provide sufficient sources of liquidity to satisfy our financial needs for the next 12 months. However, we have no bank facilities or lines of credit, and continuing material reductions in our cash and cash equivalents from operating losses, capital expenditures, adverse legal decisions, acquisitions or otherwise could materially and adversely affect the Company. See “Management Discussion and Analysis – Liquidity and Capital Resources” for information on (i) our cash and cash equivalents that declined to $11.4 million at December 31, 2017 from $14.2 million at December 31, 2016, (ii) the portion of our cash and cash equivalents that at December 31, 2017 was held by our foreign subsidiaries and that can be repatriated to the United States and is subject to applicable withholding taxes in the foreign jurisdictions where we operate, (iii) the cash used in our operating activities as a result of our net loss in 2017, (iv) the cash used in 2017 in our investing activities for the acquisition and integration of Agility and capital expenditures and (v) our current plans for the use of our cash and cash equivalents.. Our common stock may become subject to delisting from The Nasdaq Stock Market.. Nasdaq may under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810 delist the Company’s common stock if the closing bid price for its common stock is less than $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days and the Company does not thereafter cure all listing deficiencies during Nasdaq-designated compliance periods.. A portion of our services is provided on a non-recurring basis for specific projects, and our inability to replace large projects when they are completed or otherwise terminated has adversely affected, and could in the future adversely affect, our revenues and results of operations.. We provide a portion of our services for specific projects that generate revenues that terminate on completion of a defined task. While we seek, wherever possible, on completion or termination of large projects, to counterbalance periodic declines in revenues with new arrangements to provide services to the same client or others, our inability to obtain sufficient new projects to counterbalance any decreases in such work may adversely affect our future revenues and results of operations.. A portion of our revenue is generated from projects which we characterize as recurring in nature. Projects that we characterize as recurring are nevertheless subject to termination.. Our operating performance is materially dependent on the continuation of these projects. However, we are exposed to risks where these projects could be terminated by our clients and we may not be able to replace these terminated projects with new recurring projects with similar profitability or clients may ask for a price reduction which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. Our solutions for the MIS segment are sold pursuant to subscription agreements, and if subscription clients elect either not to renew these agreements, or to renew these agreements for less expensive services, our revenues and results of operations will be adversely affected.. Our MIS segment derives its revenues primarily from subscription arrangements. Our clients may choose not to renew subscription agreements when they expire or may renew them at lower prices or for a significantly narrower scope of work. If large numbers of existing subscription clients do not renew these agreements or renew these agreements on terms less favorable to us, and if we cannot replace or supplement those non-renewals with new subscription agreements generating the same or greater level of revenue, our revenues and results of operations will be adversely affected.. 11. The Synodex and docGenix subsidiaries in our IADS segment have incurred significant losses since their inception in 2011.. We have invested significant amounts in the Synodex and docGenix subsidiaries of our IADS segment. Our cumulative investment net of revenues in these subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017 was $33.6 million, consisting of $26.6 million in operating expenses and $7.0 million in capital expenditures. In the third quarter of 2013 we wrote off all the fixed assets of IADS, and we have expensed all investments in IADS since that date. During 2017, these subsidiaries generated approximately $4.8 million in revenues and incurred a net loss of $0.6 million net of inter-segment profits. Our operations and financial condition will be adversely affected if IADS fails to generate meaningful revenues and margins.. New acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments or partnerships could harm our operating results.. In July 2016, we acquired the Agility business from PR Newswire, comprised of what we now refer to as the Agility Connect and Agility Capture products, pursuant to an asset purchase agreement. Agility is a global media contact database and email distribution platform and Agility Plus provides additional self-service media monitoring and analytics capabilities. In July 2014, we acquired MediaMiser Ltd., a Canada-based provider of automated, real-time traditional and social media monitoring services, and in December 2014, we acquired intellectual property and related assets of Bulldog Reporter from Sirius Information, Inc.. We may pursue additional acquisitions, joint ventures or engage in strategic investments or partnerships to grow and enhance our capabilities. We cannot assure that we will successfully consummate any acquisitions or joint ventures, or profit by strategic investments, or achieve desired financial and operating results. Further, such activities involve a number of risks and challenges, including proper evaluation, diversion of management’s attention and proper integration with our current business. Accordingly, we might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any such venture we undertake. If we are unable to complete the kind of acquisitions for which we plan, we may not be able to achieve our planned rates of growth, profitability or competitive position in specific markets or services.. A large portion of our accounts receivable is payable by a limited number of clients; the inability of any of these clients to pay its accounts receivable would adversely affect our results of operations.. Several significant clients account for a large percentage of our accounts receivable. If any of these clients were unable, or refused, for any reason, to pay our accounts receivable, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2017, 51% or $5.2 million, of our accounts receivable was due from three clients. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”. In addition, we evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. We maintain specific allowances against doubtful receivables. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and, as a result, we might need to adjust our allowances. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties, including limited access to the credit markets, insolvency or bankruptcy, for our clients, and, as a result, could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. If we are unable to collect timely from our clients, our cash flows could be adversely affected.. Quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations could make financial forecasting difficult and could negatively affect our stock price.. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and results of operations. During the past eight quarters, our net income ranged from a profit of approximately $3,000 in the first quarter of 2016 to a loss of approximately $2.8 million in the third quarter of 2016.. 12. We experience fluctuations in our revenue and earnings as we replace and begin new projects, which may have some normal start-up delays, or we may be unable to replace a project entirely or on terms that are as attractive to us as the project that is being replaced. These and other factors may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations from quarter to quarter.. A high percentage of our operating expenses, particularly personnel and rent, are relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, unanticipated variations in the number and timing of our projects, or in employee wage levels and utilization rates, may cause us to significantly underutilize our production capacity and employees, resulting in significant variations in our operating results in any particular quarter, and have resulted in losses.. The economic environment and pricing pressures could negatively impact our revenues and operating results.. Due to the intense competition involved in outsourcing and information technology services, we generally face pricing pressures from our clients. Our ability to maintain or increase pricing is restricted as clients generally expect to receive volume discounts or special pricing incentives as we do more business with them; moreover, our large clients may exercise pressure for discounts outside of agreed terms.. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to maintain pricing on our existing projects and win new projects at appropriate margins.. Our profit margin, and therefore our profitability, is dependent on the rates we are able to recover for our services. If we are not able to maintain pricing on our existing services and win new projects at profitable margins, or if we underestimate the costs or complexities of new projects and incur losses, our profitability could suffer. The rates we are able to recover for our services are affected by a number of factors, including competition, volume fluctuations, productivity of employees and processes, the value our client derives from our services and general economic and political conditions.. If our pricing structures do not accurately anticipate the cost and complexity of performing our work, then our contracts could be unprofitable.. We provide services either on a time-and-materials basis or on a fixed-price basis. Our pricing is highly dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects, which might be based on limited data and could turn out to be inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate the costs and timing for completing projects, our contracts could prove unprofitable for us or yield lower profit margins than anticipated.. We may not be able to obtain price increases that are necessary to offset the effect of wage inflation and other government mandated cost increases.. We have experienced wage inflation and other government mandated cost increases in the Asian countries where we have the majority of our operations. In addition, we may experience adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These global events have put pressure on our profitability and our margins. Although we have tried to partially offset wage increases, foreign currency fluctuations and other such increases through price increases and improving our efficiency, we cannot ensure that we will be able to continue to do so in the future, which would negatively impact our results of operations.. 13. If our clients are not satisfied with our services, they may terminate our contracts with them or our services, which could have an adverse impact on our business.. Our business model depends in large part on our ability to attract additional work from our base of existing clients. Our business model also depends on relationships our account teams develop with our clients so that we can understand our clients’ needs and deliver solutions and services that are tailored to those needs. If a client is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us, or with the type of services or solutions delivered, then we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the client’s dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to obtain additional work from that client. In particular, clients that are not satisfied might seek to terminate existing contracts, which would mean that we could incur costs for the services performed with no associated revenue upon termination of a contract. This could also direct future business to our competitors. In addition, negative publicity related to our client services or relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts with current and prospective clients.. Our new clients may sunset their products because of lack of sufficient revenues or declining revenues, and this may result in termination of our work for these clients.. As we obtain new opportunities and win new business, our clients may not generate the level of revenues that we initially anticipated at the time of signing a contract with them, or our clients may experience declining revenues with their existing products. This could be due to various reasons beyond our control, and it could lead to termination of projects or contracts. As we normally invest in people or technology and incur other costs in anticipation of revenues, any such deviation from our expected plan would impact our margins and earnings.. Our business will suffer if we fail to develop new services and enhance our existing services in order to keep pace with the rapidly evolving technological environment or provide new service offerings, which may not succeed.. The information technology and consulting services industries are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences, new product and service introductions and the emergence of new vendors with lean cost and flexible cost models. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop solutions that keep pace with changes in the markets in which we provide services. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in developing new services, addressing evolving technologies on a timely or cost-effective basis or, if these services are developed, that we will be successful in the marketplace. We also cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively with new vendors offering lean cost and flexible cost models, or that products, services or technologies developed by others will not render our services non-competitive or obsolete. Our failure to address these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We invest in developing and pursuing new service offerings from time to time. Our profitability could be reduced if these services do not yield the profit margins we expect, or if the new service offerings do not generate the planned revenues.. We have made and continue to make significant investments towards building-out new capabilities to pursue growth. These investments increase our costs, and if these services do not yield the revenues or profit margins we expect, and we are unable to grow our business and revenue proportionately, our profitability may be reduced, or we may incur losses.. We depend on third-party technology in the provision of our services.. We rely upon certain software that we license from third parties, including software integrated with our internally developed software used in the provision of our services. These third-party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable or competitive terms, if at all. The loss of, or inability to maintain or obtain any of these software licenses, could result in delays in the provision of our services until we develop, identify, license and integrate equivalent software. Any delay in the provision of our services could damage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, for our Synodex and docGenix subsidiaries of our IADS segment, we utilize third party data centers to serve our clients and generate revenue. Any disruption in provision of services from these data centers could result in loss of revenue, client dissatisfaction and loss of clients.. 14. Our MIS segment relies on third parties to provide certain content and data for our solutions, and if those third-parties discontinue providing their content, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our MIS segment relies on third parties to provide or make available certain data for our information databases and our news and social media monitoring service. These third parties may not renew agreements to provide content to us or may increase the price they charge for their content. Additionally, the quality of the content provided to us may not be acceptable to us and we may need to enter into agreements with additional third parties. In the event we are unable to use such third-party content or are unable to enter into agreements with new third parties, current clients may discontinue their relationship with us, and it may be difficult to acquire new clients.. Our businesses are reliant on key employees, and we may face high attrition in our talent. We may not be able to replace displaced talent with new talent on a timely basis or with equivalent skill sets.. We are reliant to a considerable degree on the continuing leadership of our Chief Executive Officer and would be materially and adversely affected should he unexpectedly not be employed by us. In addition, our businesses are subject to fierce competition for talent which could result in high attrition of our employees, or we may not be able to find the requisite talent to operate our businesses. A significant increase in the attrition rate among employees with specialized skills could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity. Our failure to attract, train and retain personnel with the qualifications necessary to fulfill the needs of our existing and future clients or to assimilate new employees successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, fluctuations in our business may require that we lay off employees with possible negative effects on employee morale. We try to minimize these risks by actively promoting employee relationships and offering competitive salaries, but if we cannot mitigate these risks, our business and our operating performance could be adversely affected.. We compete in highly competitive markets.. The markets for our services are highly competitive. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, human, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. If we fail to be competitive with these companies in the future, we may lose market share, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. There are relatively few barriers preventing companies from competing. As a result, new market entrants also pose a threat to our business. We also compete with in-house personnel at current and prospective clients, who may attempt to duplicate our services using their own personnel. If we are not able to compete effectively, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We operate from multiple locations and our employees are very diverse so we have significant coordination risks.. We are headquartered in Ridgefield Park, New Jersey, just outside New York City, and our Media Intelligence Solutions business is headquartered in Ottawa, Canada and has an additional location in London, United Kingdom. We have ten delivery centers in the Philippines, India, Sri Lanka, Canada, Germany, United Kingdom and Israel. Our employees are geographically dispersed as well as culturally diverse. Our personnel need to work together to successfully execute our business plans and we invest in various measures to improve coordination and teamwork. Should we fail in these efforts our ability to execute our business plans may be adversely affected.. 15. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and if we are unable to protect them or are subject to intellectual property rights claims, our business may be harmed.. Our intellectual property rights include certain trademarks, trade secrets, domain name registrations, a patent and patent applications. Although we take precautions to protect our intellectual property rights, these efforts may not be sufficient or effective. In addition, various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights as well as to our business.  If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may experience difficulties in achieving and maintaining brand recognition.. Disruptions in telecommunications, system failures, data corruption or virus attacks could harm our ability to execute our global resource model, which could result in client dissatisfaction and a reduction of our revenues.. We use a distributed global resource model. Our onshore workforce provides services from our United States and Canada offices, as well as from client sites; and our offshore workforce provides services from our nine offshore delivery centers in the Philippines, India, Sri Lanka, Germany, United Kingdom and Israel. Our global facilities are linked with a telecommunications network that uses multiple service providers. We may not be able to maintain active voice and data communications between our various facilities and our clients' sites at all times due to disruptions in these networks, system failures, data corruption or virus attacks. Any significant failure in our ability to communicate, or the availability of our platforms, could result in a disruption in our business, which could hinder our performance, or our ability to complete client projects on time, or provide services to our clients. This, in turn, could lead to client dissatisfaction and an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A material breach in security relating to our information systems could adversely affect us.. Even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, cyber-attacks, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of any of the events described above could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, cessations in the availability of systems or liability under privacy laws or contracts, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Governmental and client focus on data security could increase our costs of operations. In addition, any incident in which we fail to protect our client’s information against security breaches may result in monetary damages against us, and termination of our engagement by our client, and may adversely impact our results of operations.. Certain laws and regulations regarding data privacy and security affecting our clients impose requirements regarding the privacy and security of information maintained by these clients, as well as notification to persons whose personal information is accessed by an unauthorized third party. As a result of any continuing legislative initiatives and client demands, we may have to modify our operations with the goal of further improving data security. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations is high and is likely to increase in the future. Any such modifications may result in increased expenses and operating complexity, and we may be unable to increase the rates we charge for our services sufficiently to offset these increases. In addition, as part of the service we perform, we have access to confidential client data, including sensitive personal data. As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information. We may also be bound by certain client agreements to use and disclose the confidential client information in a manner consistent with the privacy standards under regulations applicable to such client. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws and regulations can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties.. If client confidential information is inappropriately disclosed due to a breach of our computer systems, system failures or otherwise, or if any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches controls or procedures with which we are responsible for complying with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we may have substantial liabilities to our clients. Any incidents with respect to the handling of such information could subject us to litigation or indemnification claims with our clients and other parties. In addition, any breach or alleged breach of our confidentiality agreements with our clients may result in termination of their engagements, resulting in associated loss of revenue and increased costs.. 16. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level, any of which could increase our costs and hinder our growth.. The major part of our operations is carried on in the Philippines, India, Sri Lanka, Israel, United Kingdom, Canada and Germany, while our headquarters are in the United States, and our clients are primarily located in North America and Europe. While we do not depend on significant revenues from sources internal to the Asian countries in which we operate, we are nevertheless subject to certain adverse economic factors relating to overseas economies generally, including inflation, external debt, a negative balance of trade and underemployment. In certain of the countries in which we operate tax authorities may exercise significant discretionary and arbitrary powers to make tax demands or decline to refund payments that may be due to us as per tax returns. Other risks associated with our international business activities include:. •difficulties in staffing international projects and managing international operations, including overcoming logistical and communications challenges;. •local competition, particularly in the Philippines, India and Sri Lanka;. •imposition of public sector controls;. •trade and tariff restrictions;. •price or exchange controls;. •currency control regulations;. •foreign tax consequences;. •data privacy laws and regulation;. •labor disputes and related litigation and liability;. •intellectual property laws and enforcement practices;. •limitations on repatriation of earnings; and. •changing laws and regulations, occasionally with retroactive effect.. One or more of these factors could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our international business is subject to applicable laws and regulations relating to foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations.. We must comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws and regulations of the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we operate. For example, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act relating to corrupt and illegal payments to government officials and others. Although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, it is possible that an employee or an agent acting on our behalf could fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, and due to the complex nature of the risks, it may not always be possible for us to ascertain compliance with such laws and regulations. In such event, we could be exposed to civil penalties, criminal penalties and other sanctions, including fines or other unintended punitive actions, and we could incur substantial legal fees and related expenses. In addition, such violations could damage our business and/or our reputation. All of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. 17. Our international operations subject us to currency exchange fluctuations, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Although most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our revenues is denominated in Canadian dollars, Pound Sterling and Euros. In addition, a significant portion of our expenses, primarily labor expenses in the Philippines, India, Sri Lanka, Germany, Canada, United Kingdom and Israel, is incurred in the local currencies of the countries in which we operate. For financial reporting purposes, we translate all non-U.S. denominated transactions into U.S. dollars in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Thus, we are exposed to the risk that fluctuations in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a direct impact on our revenues and our results of operations.. Similarly, the Philippines and India have at times experienced high rates of inflation as well as major fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Philippine peso and the U.S. dollar and the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar. Although we selectively undertake hedging activities to mitigate certain of these risks, our hedging activities may not be effective and may result in losses.. Fluctuations in exchange rates also affect the value of funds held by our foreign subsidiaries. We do not currently intend to hedge these assets.. In the event that the government of India, the Philippines or the government of another country changes its tax policies, rules and regulations, our tax expense may increase and affect our effective tax rates.. We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to the continual examination by tax authorities in India and in the Philippines, and the Company assesses the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from what is reflected in historical income tax and indirect tax provisions and accruals, and could result in a material effect on the Company’s income tax provision, indirect tax expenses, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. If additional taxes are assessed, it could have an adverse impact on our financial results.. In addition, changes in the tax rates, tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws in the jurisdiction where we operate, could affect our future results of operations.. In 2015, our Indian subsidiary was subject to an inquiry by the Service Tax Bureau in India regarding the classification of services provided by this subsidiary, asserting that the services provided by this subsidiary fall under the category of online information and database access or retrieval services (OID Services), and not under the category of business support services (BS Services) that are exempt from service tax as historically indicated in our service tax filings. In the event the Service Tax Bureau is successful in proving that our services fall under the category of OID Services, the revenue earned by our Indian subsidiary would be subject to a service tax of approximately 14.5% and this would increase our operating costs. The revenues of our Indian subsidiary in 2017 were $15.6 million. We disagree with the Service Tax Bureau’s position and contest these assertions vigorously.. In 2016, our Indian subsidiary received notices of appeal from the Commissioner, Service Tax, seeking to reverse service tax refunds previously granted to us for certain quarters in 2014, asserting that the services provided by this subsidiary fall under the category of OID Services and not BS Services. We disagree with the basis of these appeals and are contesting them vigorously. We expect delays in receiving service tax refunds until the appeals are adjudicated with finality.. 18. Our operating results may be adversely affected by our use of derivative financial instruments.. We have entered into a series of foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges. These contracts are intended to partially offset the impact of the movement of the exchange rates on future operating costs of our Asian subsidiaries. The hedging strategies that we have implemented or may implement to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risks may not reduce or completely offset our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and may expose our business to unexpected market, operational and counterparty credit risks. Accordingly, we may incur losses from our use of derivative financial instruments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If tax authorities in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate contest the manner in which we allocate our profits, our net income could decrease.. A significant portion of the services we provide to our clients are provided by our Asian subsidiaries located in different jurisdictions. Tax authorities in some of these jurisdictions have from time to time challenged the manner in which we allocate our profits among our subsidiaries, and we may not prevail in this type of challenge. If such a challenge were successful, our worldwide effective tax rate could increase, thereby decreasing our net income.. An expiration or termination of our preferential tax rate incentives could adversely affect our results of operations.. Certain of our foreign subsidiaries are subject to preferential tax rates or enjoy tax subsidies from the government. In addition, one of our foreign subsidiaries enjoys a tax holiday. These tax incentives provide that we pay reduced income taxes in those jurisdictions for a fixed period of time that varies depending on the jurisdiction, or they may result in lowering our expenses. An expiration or termination of these incentives could substantially increase our worldwide effective tax rate, or increase our tax expense, thereby decreasing our net income and adversely affecting our results of operations.. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we change our intent not to repatriate our foreign earnings or if such earnings become subject to U.S. tax on a current basis.. In December 2017, the President signed the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (2017 Tax Act), which includes a broad range of provisions, many of which significantly differ from those contained in previous U.S. tax law. One such provision relates to a one-time tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of post-1986 untaxed foreign earnings and profits (E&P), referred to as the toll charge. A significant portion of our operations are conducted outside the United States. Despite the access to the overseas earnings and the resulting toll charge, we intend to indefinitely reinvest the foreign earnings in our foreign subsidiaries on account of the withholding tax that the Company has to incur on the actual remittances. Unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries amounted to approximately $24.8 million at December 31, 2017. If such earnings are repatriated in the future, or are no longer deemed to be indefinitely reinvested, the Company would have to accrue the applicable amount of withholding taxes associated with such remittances.. Anti-outsourcing legislation, if adopted, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our clients.. The issue of outsourcing of services abroad by U.S. companies is a topic of political discussion in the United States. Measures aimed at limiting or restricting outsourcing by U.S. companies are under discussion in Congress and in numerous state legislatures. While no substantive anti-outsourcing legislation has been introduced to date, given the ongoing debate over this issue, the introduction of such legislation is possible. If introduced, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected and our ability to service our clients could be impaired.. 19. Our growth could be hindered by visa restrictions.. Occasionally, we have employees from our other facilities visit or transfer to the United States to meet our clients or work on projects at a client’s site. Any visa restrictions or new legislation putting a restriction on issuing visas could affect our business.. Immigration and visa laws and regulations in the United States and other countries are subject to legislative and administrative changes as well as changes in the application of standards. Immigration and visa laws and regulations can be significantly affected by political forces and levels of economic activity. Our international expansion strategy and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected if legislative or administrative changes to immigration or visa laws and regulations impair our ability to staff projects with our professionals who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed.. Political uncertainty, political unrest, terrorism, and natural calamities in the Philippines, India, Sri Lanka and Israel could adversely affect business conditions in those regions, which in turn could disrupt our business and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We conduct the majority of our production operations in the Philippines, India, Sri Lanka and Israel. These countries and regions remain vulnerable to disruptions from political uncertainty, political unrest, terrorist acts, and natural calamities.. Any damage to our network and/or information systems would damage our ability to provide services, in whole or in part, and/or otherwise damage our operations and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, political tensions and escalation of hostilities in any of these countries could adversely affect our operations in these countries and therefore adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. Terrorist attacks or a war could adversely affect our results of operations.. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could affect us or our clients by disrupting normal business practices for extended periods of time and reducing business confidence. In addition, acts of violence or war may make travel more difficult and may effectively curtail our ability to serve our clients' needs, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We may face various risks associated with shareholder activists or shareholder demands for better performance.. There is no assurance that we will not be subject to shareholder activism or demands. Such activities could interfere with our ability to execute our strategic plan, be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations, and divert the attention of management and our employees.. We are the subject of continuing litigation, including litigation by certain of our former employees.. In 2008, a judgment was rendered in the Philippines against a Philippines subsidiary of the Company that is no longer active and purportedly also against Innodata Inc., in favor of certain former employees of the Philippines subsidiary. The payment amount as recalculated in November 2017 by the Philippines Department of Labor and Employment National Labor Relations Commission aggregates approximately $6.2 million, plus legal interest that accrued at 12% per annum from August 13, 2008 to June 30, 2013, and thereafter accrued and continues to accrue at 6% per annum. The payment amount as expressed in U.S. dollars varies with the Philippine peso to U.S. dollar exchange rate. In December 2017 a group of 97 of the former employees indicated that they proposed to record the judgment as to them in New Jersey. In January 2018, in response to an action initiated by Innodata Inc., the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey entered a preliminary injunction that enjoins these former employees from pursuing or seeking recognition or enforcement of the judgment against Innodata Inc. in the United States during the pendency of the action and until further order of the Court.. 20. We are also subject to various other legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.. While we currently believe that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or overall trends in our consolidated results of operations, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties. Substantial recovery against us in the above- referenced Philippines action could have a material adverse impact on us, and unfavorable rulings or recoveries in the other proceedings could have a material adverse impact on the consolidated operating results of the period in which the ruling or recovery occurs. In addition, our estimate of potential impact on our consolidated financial position or overall consolidated results of operations for the above referenced legal proceedings could change in the future. See “Legal Proceedings.”. Our reputation could be damaged or our profitability could suffer if we do not meet the controls and procedures in respect of the services and solutions we provide to our clients, or if we contribute to our clients’ internal control deficiencies.. Our clients may perform audits or require us to perform audits, provide audit reports or obtain certifications with respect to the controls and procedures that we use in the performance of services for such clients, especially when we process data or information belonging to them. Our ability to acquire new clients and retain existing clients may be adversely affected and our reputation could be harmed if we receive a qualified opinion, or if we cannot obtain an appropriate certification or opinion with respect to our controls and procedures in connection with any such audit in a timely manner. Additionally, our profitability could suffer if our controls and procedures were to fail or to impair our client’s ability to comply with its own internal control requirements.. New and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements add uncertainty to our compliance policies and increase our costs of compliance.. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, other SEC regulations, and the NASDAQ Stock Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time, as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such corporate governance standards.. Although we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and complying with evolving laws, regulations and standards, if we fail to comply with new or changed laws, regulations or standards of corporate governance, our business and reputation may be harmed.. It is unlikely that we will pay dividends.. We have not paid any cash dividends since our inception and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We expect that our earnings, if any, will be used to finance our growth."
