[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently deem to be material, and do not represent all of the risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider material may in the future become material and impair our business operations. Some of the risks and uncertainties described herein have been grouped so that related risks can be viewed together. You should not draw conclusions regarding the relative magnitude or likelihood of any risk based on the order in which risks or uncertainties are presented herein. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be materially harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our securities could decline. You should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.. GENERAL RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future, which could cause declines or volatility in the price of our common stock.. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly operating results or guidance fall below the expectations of research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. The following factors, among others, could cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results:. • our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers;. • our ability to accurately forecast revenue and appropriately plan our expenses;. • our ability to accurately predict changes in customer demand due to matters beyond our control;. • our ability to introduce new features, including integration of our existing solutions with third-party software and devices;. • the actions of our competitors, including consolidation within the industry, pricing changes or the introduction of new services;. • our ability to effectively manage our growth;. • our ability to attract and retain key employees;. • our ability to successfully manage and realize the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions of businesses, solutions, or technologies;. • our ability to successfully launch new services or solutions or sell existing services or solutions into. 11. additional geographies or vertical markets;. • the timing and cost of developing or acquiring technologies, services, or businesses;. • the timing, operating costs, and capital expenditures related to the operation, maintenance, and expansion of our business;. • service outages or security breaches and any related occurrences which could impact our reputation;. • the impact of worldwide economic, industry, and market conditions, including disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in some countries, and those conditions specific to Internet usage and online businesses;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the South African Rand to U.S. Dollar exchange rate;. • trade protection measures (such as tariffs and duties) and import or export licensing requirements;. • costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims;. • changes in law and regulations affecting our business; and. • provision of fleet management solutions or asset management solutions from cellular carrier-controlled or OEM-controlled channels from which Inseego may be excluded.. We believe that our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of any quarter as an indication of future performance.. We have an accumulated deficit and may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability, which may negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives.. We have reported net losses in each of the last three fiscal years, and we cannot predict when we will become profitable or if such profitability can be sustained. We expect to continue making significant expenditures to develop and expand our business. Any growth in our revenue or customer base may not be sustainable, and we may not generate sufficient revenue to become profitable. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks described in this section, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown events. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability, and the failure to fund our capital requirements may negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives.. The reorganized company resulting from the acquisitions of R.E.R. Enterprises, Inc. (\"RER\") (and its wholly-owned subsidiary and principal operating asset, Feeney Wireless, LLC (which has been renamed Inseego North America, LLC) (\"FW\" or \"INA\")) and Ctrack and the recent divestiture of our Modules Business (as defined below) may not perform as we or the market expects, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. The reorganized company resulting from the acquisitions of FW and Ctrack in 2015 and the divestiture of our Modules Business in 2016 may not perform as we or the market expects. Risks associated with the reorganized company following these acquisitions and the divestiture include the following:. • integrating new business acquisitions and divesting existing lines of business is a difficult, expensive and time-consuming process and the failure to successfully manage such transitions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations;. • the acquisitions of FW and Ctrack changed the nature of the business in which we historically operated from primarily selling communications-related hardware to a solutions and software business in the emerging IoT market; if we are not able to effectively adjust to these changes in the fundamental nature of our business, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected;. • it is possible that our key employees might decide not to remain with us as a result of these changes in our business or for other reasons, and the loss of such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects;. • relationships with third parties, including key vendors and customers, may be affected by changes in our business resulting from these acquisitions and divestitures; any adverse changes in these third party relationships could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; and. • the price of our common stock may be affected by factors different from those that affected the price of our common stock prior to these acquisitions and/or divestitures.. We cannot provide any assurances with respect to the accuracy of our assumptions with respect to future revenues or revenue growth rates, if any, of the reorganized company, and we cannot provide assurances with respect to our ability to. 12. realize any expected operating synergies or cost savings from the acquisition of FW and Ctrack and the divestiture of our Modules Business.. The 5G market may take longer to materialize than we expect or, if it does materialize rapidly, we may not be able to meet the development schedule.. The 5G market, including the newly defined 5G NR standard, is accelerating and we believe that we are at the forefront of this newly emerging standard. However, this market may take longer to materialize than we expect which could delay important commercial network launches. Even if the market does materialize at the rapid pace that we are expecting, we may have difficulties meeting the aggressive time lines and getting our target products to market on time to meet the demands of our target customers. The 5G market requires us to design routers and antennas that meet certain technical specifications. We may have difficulties meeting the market and technical specifications and time lines. Additionally, our target customers have no guaranty that the configurations of their respective target products will be successful or that they can reach the appropriate target client base to make our research and development investment worthwhile. Failure to manage these challenges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to develop and timely introduce new products and services or enter new markets for our products and services successfully, we may not achieve our revenue targets or we may lose key customers or sales and our business could be harmed.. The development of new solutions for mobile broadband data, vehicle tracking, asset management, fleet management and telemetry applications can be difficult, time-consuming and costly. There are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with offering new products and services, especially when new markets are not fully developed, related technology standards are not mature, or when the laws and regulations regarding a new product or solution are not mature. Factors outside of our control, such as developing laws and regulations, regulatory orders, competitive product offerings and changes in commercial and consumer demand for products or services may also materially impact the successful implementation of new products or services. As we introduce new products or solutions, our current customers may not require or desire the features of these new offerings and may not purchase them or might purchase them in smaller quantities than we had expected. We may face similar risks that our products or solutions will not be accepted by customers as we enter new markets for our solutions, both in the United States and international markets.. Further, as part of our business, we may enter into contracts with some customers in which we would agree to develop products or solutions that we would sell to such customers. Our ability to generate future revenue and operating income under any such contracts would depend upon, among other factors, our ability to timely and profitably develop products or solutions that can be cost-effectively deployed and that meet required design, technical and performance specifications.. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks or meet required delivery specifications or deadlines in connection with one or more of our key contracts, we may lose key customers or orders and our business could be harmed.. An assertion by a third party that we are infringing its intellectual property could subject us to costly and time- consuming litigation or expensive licenses and our business could be harmed.. The technology industries involving mobile data communications, IoT devices, software and services are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Much of this litigation involves patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenues of their own, and against whom our own patent portfolio may provide little or no deterrence. For example, one such entity, Carucel Investments, L.P. (\"Carucel\") filed a claim seeking approximately $43.0 million in royalties and damages related to past sales of MiFi mobile hotspots. After a trial in April 2017, a jury found that our products did not infringe Carucel's patents, but Carucel is appealing the verdict and there can be no assurances as to the ultimate outcome of this litigation. Moreover, this is just one of several patent infringement lawsuits from non-practicing entities that are brought against us or our subsidiaries each year in the ordinary course of business.. We cannot assure you that we or our subsidiaries will prevail in any current or future intellectual property infringement or other litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in such litigation. Defending such claims, regardless of their merit, could be time-consuming and distracting to management, result in costly litigation or settlement, cause development delays, or require us or our subsidiaries to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, we or our subsidiaries could be obligated to indemnify our customers against third parties' claims of intellectual property infringement based on our products or solutions, as is the case in the Carucel litigation for which Novatel Wireless may be obligated to indemnify its customer, Verizon Wireless if Carucel's infringement claim ultimately results in any liability. If our products or solutions violate any third-party intellectual property rights, we could be required to withdraw them from the market, re-develop them or seek to obtain licenses from third parties, which might not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Any efforts to re-develop our products or solutions, obtain licenses from third parties on favorable terms or license a substitute. 13. technology might not be successful and, in any case, might substantially increase our costs and harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Withdrawal of any of our products or solutions from the market could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.. In addition, we incorporate open source software into our products and solutions. Given the nature of open source software, third parties might assert copyright and other intellectual property infringement claims against us based on our use of certain open source software programs. The terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. courts or courts of other jurisdictions, and there is a risk that those licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and solutions. In that event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products and solutions, to re-develop our solutions, to discontinue sales of our solutions, or to release our proprietary software source code under the terms of an open source license, any of which could adversely affect our business.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our competitive position and our business could be harmed.. We rely on a combination of patent laws, trademark laws, copyright laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. However, our issued patents and any future patents that may issue may not survive a legal challenge to their scope, validity or enforceability, or provide significant protection for us. The failure of our patents to adequately protect our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products or technologies. In addition, patents may not issue from any of our current or any future applications and significant portions of our intellectual property are held in the form of trade secrets which are not protected by patents.. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may also independently develop similar technology. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Any failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could result in competitors offering products that incorporate our most technologically advanced features, which could seriously reduce demand for our products and solutions. In addition, we may in the future need to initiate infringement claims or litigation. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and managerial personnel, which could harm our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us.. We are currently engaged in litigation that could be costly to maintain, distracting to management and could, if decided adversely, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. On May 11, 2017, the Company initiated a lawsuit against the former stockholders of RER in connection with the Company's acquisition of FW, seeking recovery of damages for civil conspiracy, fraud in the inducement, unjust enrichment and breach of fiduciary duty. The Company has suspended payments owed to the former stockholders of RER under an earn-out arrangement, pursuant to which the Company would have been required to pay an additional $15.8 million in cash and 1.9 million shares of the Company's common stock pending the outcome of this litigation. There can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of this case. If there is an adverse judgment against the Company, in addition to costs associated with maintaining this lawsuit, it could result in the Company being required to make the suspended payments and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. We may not be able to maintain and expand our business if we are not able to hire, retain and manage additional qualified personnel.. Our success in the future depends in part on the continued contribution of our executive, technical, engineering, sales, marketing, operations and administrative personnel.  Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel in the industries in which we operate, including engineers and other technical staff and skilled sales and marketing personnel, is highly competitive. In addition, the success of any acquisition depends in part on our retention and integration of key personnel from the acquired company or business.. Although we may enter into employment agreements with members of our senior management and other key personnel, these arrangements do not prevent any of our management or key personnel from leaving the company. If we are not able to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or if we experience delays in hiring required personnel, particularly qualified technical and sales personnel, we may not be able to maintain and expand our business.. 14. Our decision to terminate the Purchase Agreement governing the proposed sale of our MiFi Business and retain ownership of that business could have adverse effects on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock.. In June 2017, we terminated the Purchase Agreement governing the proposed sale of our MiFi Business due to delays and uncertainty in securing approval of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement from CFIUS. As a result of such termination, we retained our ownership interest in Novatel Wireless and the MiFi Business. While we believe that market opportunities and the underlying business fundamentals of the mobile hotspot business have improved since we decided to seek the sale of the business in early 2016 we expect to face significant challenges as we drive that business toward profitability.. The mobile hotspot business has relatively low gross margins and operates in a very competitive market environment. While our mobile hotspot products tend to have advanced features which often enable them to be sold at premium prices when they are first introduced, we also have higher costs than most of our competitors due to our small scale and heavy use of U.S. based engineers in product development. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and scale, as would be expected in the relatively mature, consumer electronics product categories which comprise our mobile hotspot business. Our wireless data modem and mobile hotspots, for example, compete against similar products offered by Huawei, ZTE, Sierra Wireless, TCL, Franklin Wireless and NetGear. More broadly, those products also compete against wireless handset manufacturers such as HTC, Apple, LG and Samsung, which all offer mobile hotspot capability as a feature of their cellular smartphones. Failure to manage these challenges, or failure of our hotspot product or service offerings to be successful and profitable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness, including the Term Loan under the Credit Agreement (each as defined below) and the Convertible Notes (as defined below), depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and other fixed charges, fund working capital needs and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or dilutive. Our ability to refinance or restructure our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on favorable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. Interest rates on our Term Loan are tied to the LIBOR plus a fixed percentage. Increases in the prime interest rate (LIBOR) will increase our debt service costs/interest payments.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our existing indebtedness or any other indebtedness which we may incur in the future, we would be in default, which could permit the holders of our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes, to accelerate the maturity of such indebtedness. Any default under such indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Despite our current consolidated debt levels, we may incur additional debt in compliance with our existing obligations.. Despite our current consolidated debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional debt in the future, including secured debt. The Inseego Indenture contains covenants, that are effective until June 15, 2020, limiting our and our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional secured indebtedness in the future, but it will not completely prohibit the incurrence of such secured debt. Although the terms of the Inseego Indenture contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, those restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions and the amount of capital indebtedness that could be incurred in connection with those exceptions could be substantial.. The Credit Agreement relating to our Term Loan contains customary operational covenants, our failure to comply with which could result in a default under the Credit Agreement as well as a cross-default under the Inseego Indenture.. The credit agreement, dated August 23, 2017, by and among the Company and certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries (the \"Guarantors\"), Cantor Fitzgerald Securities, as administrative agent and collateral agent (the \"Agent\"), and certain funds managed by Highbridge Capital Management, LLC, as lenders (the \"Lenders\") (the \"Credit Agreement\") which governs our Term Loan contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to the management and operation of our business, and it is likely that any future debt arrangements we may enter into would contain similar covenants. Failure to comply with any of the covenants under the Credit Agreement or any other debt agreement could result in a default under such an agreement and a cross-default under the Inseego Indenture (as defined below), which could permit the holders of the Inseego. 15. Notes (as defined below) to accelerate the maturity of such indebtedness. Any default or cross-default under such indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial results.. The indebtedness under our Credit Agreement is secured by certain of our assets, including the equity interests of certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries. As a result of this security interest, such assets would only be available to satisfy claims of our general creditors or to holders of our equity securities if we were to become insolvent to the extent that the value of such assets exceeded the amount of our indebtedness and other obligations under the Credit Agreement.. Indebtedness under our Credit Agreement is secured by a lien on certain of our assets, including the equity interests of certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, if an event of default were to occur under the Credit Agreement, such as a bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or other reorganization, the Lenders would have a priority right to such assets, to the exclusion of our general creditors. In that event, such assets would first be used to repay in full all indebtedness and other obligations under the Credit Agreement, resulting in all or a portion of such assets being unavailable to satisfy the claims of our unsecured creditors. Only after satisfying the claims of our unsecured creditors and our subsidiaries' unsecured creditors would any amount be available for distribution to holders of our equity securities.. If our reorganization and restructuring activities fail to achieve targeted cost and expense reductions our business and financial performance may be adversely affected.. In June 2017, we announced a restructuring plan aimed at reducing our cost of revenues and operating expenses. This restructuring plan was designed to improve our strategic focus on our most profitable business lines and consolidate operations of certain of our subsidiaries with those of the Company, including reductions-in-force, further reorganization of executive level management and the consolidation of certain of our facilities. During the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we incurred approximately $5.2 million of restructuring charges and decreased other operating expenses by approximately $35.0 million. While we expect to continue with our cost reductions, we face a variety of risks and uncertainties relating to the effectiveness of such activities. Any delays in the implementation of our restructuring plan or unforeseen expenses related to such activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The reorganization and restructuring announced in June 2017 may not yield the expected results, or may result in additional expenditures.. The reorganization and restructuring announced in June 2017 may fail to reduce the Company's expenditure rate to the correct level.  In addition, we may incur additional expenditures or other adverse effects as a result of the reorganization and restructuring which may:. • require us to further reduce the expenditure rate, which may include planned research and development activities or other operating expenses;. • make it difficult to retain key personnel as a result of the restructuring; and. • prevent us from growing sales/revenue with existing customers or adding new customers.. Our ability to transition to more profitable operations is dependent upon the Company achieving a level of revenue adequate to support our evolving cost structure. If events or circumstances occur such that we do not meet our operating plan as expected, or if we become obligated to pay unforeseen expenditures as a result of our reorganization and restructuring activities, we may never achieve our intended business objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Uncertainties relating to recent changes in our management team may adversely affect our operations.. Over the last two years, we have experienced significant turnover in our senior management. While we expect to engage in an orderly transition process as we integrate newly appointed officers and managers, we face a variety of risks and uncertainties relating to the lack of management continuity, including diversion of management attention from business concerns, failure to retain other key personnel or inability to hire new key personnel.  These risks and uncertainties could result in operational and administrative inefficiencies and added costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations, stock price and customer relationships.. The Company has entered into a Rights Agreement, and if the holders exercise their share purchase rights under such agreement, it could materially adversely affect the price of our common stock and cause dilution to our existing stockholders.. We entered into a rights agreement on January 22, 2018, with Computershare Trust Company, N.A., a federally chartered trust company, as Rights Agent (the \"Rights Agreement\"). The Rights Agreement is intended to discourage acquisitions of our. 16. common stock which could result in a cumulative change in ownership of more than 50% within a rolling three-year period, thereby preserving our current ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards to offset future income tax obligations, which would become subject to limitations if we were to experience an \"ownership change,\" as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. While this Rights Agreement is intended to preserve our current ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards, it effectively deters current and future purchasers from accumulating more than 4.9% of our common stock, which could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. In addition, if the share purchase rights under the Rights Agreement are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which could cause dilution to our current stockholders. Moreover, sales in the public market of any shares of our common stock issuable upon such exercise, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. These issuances would also cause our per share net income, if any, to decrease in future periods.. If the Rights Agreement has not been approved or ratified by the stockholders prior to the close of business on the date of the Company's 2018 Annual Meeting, the preferred stock purchase rights issued pursuant to the Rights Agreement will expire, which could make an acquisition of our common stock that would trigger a limitation on our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards more likely to occur.. RISKS RELATED TO CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES. If we do not properly manage the development of our business, we may experience significant strains on our management and operations and disruptions in our business.. Various risks arise if companies and industries quickly grow or evolve. If our business or industry develops more quickly than our ability to respond, our ability to meet customer demand in a timely and efficient manner could be challenged. We may also experience development, certification or production delays as we seek to meet demand for our products or unanticipated product requirements. Our failure to properly manage the developments that we or our industry might experience could negatively impact our ability to execute on our operating plan and, accordingly, could have an adverse impact on our business, our cash flow and results of operations and our reputation with our current or potential customers.. Our corporate development activities could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations.. As part of our business strategy, we may review acquisition and divestiture opportunities that we believe would be advantageous or complementary to the development of our business. Based on these opportunities, we may acquire additional businesses, assets, or technologies in the future. Alternatively, we may divest businesses, assets or technologies. All of these activities are subject to risks and uncertainties and could disrupt or harm our business. For example, if we make an acquisition, we could take any or all of the following actions, any one of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price:. • use a substantial portion of our available cash;. • incur substantial debt, which may not be available to us on favorable terms and may adversely affect our liquidity;. • issue equity or equity-based securities that would dilute the percentage ownership of existing stockholders;. • assume contingent liabilities; and. • take substantial charges in connection with acquired assets.. Acquired businesses may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition, such as:. • failure by previous management to comply with applicable laws or regulations;. • inaccurate representations; and. • unfulfilled contractual obligations to customers or vendors.. Other risks of engaging in acquisitions include:. • difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, products, technologies and personnel;. • unanticipated costs;. • diversion of management's attention from existing operations;. • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. • risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and. • potential loss of key employees from either our existing business or the acquired organization.. 17. There are also risks associated with divested businesses or businesses planned to be sold, such as:. • difficulties separating divested operations from ongoing operations;. • loss of sales, marketing and operating synergies;. • loss of key employees and know-how related to the on-going portions of the business;. • unanticipated costs;. • diversion of management's attention from existing operations; and. • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers.. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate or implement acquisitions or divestitures, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such transactions, and we may incur unanticipated costs, either of which could harm our business and operating results.. RISKS RELATED TO COMPETITION. The market for the products and services that we offer is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We may be unable to compete effectively.. The market for the products and services that we offer is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We expect competition to continue to increase and intensify. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, operational and marketing resources than we do. These competitors, for example, may be able to respond more rapidly or more effectively than we can to new or emerging technologies, changes in customer requirements, supplier related developments, or a shift in the business landscape. They also may devote greater or more effective resources than we do to the development, manufacture, promotion, sale, and post-sale support of their respective products and services.. Many of our current and potential competitors have more extensive customer bases and broader customer, supplier and other industry relationships that they can leverage to establish competitive dealings with many of our current and potential customers. Some of these companies also have more established and larger customer support organizations than we do. In addition, these companies may adopt more aggressive pricing policies or offer more attractive terms to customers than they currently do, or than we are able to do. They may bundle their competitive products with broader product offerings and may introduce new products, services and enhancements. Current and potential competitors might merge or otherwise establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their products, services or market position. In addition, at any time any given customer or supplier of ours could elect to enter our then existing line of business and thereafter compete with us, whether directly or indirectly. As a result, it is possible that new competitors or new or otherwise enhanced relationships among existing competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share to the detriment of our business.. Our products compete with a variety of devices, including other wireless modems and mobile hotspots, wireless handsets, wireless handheld computing devices and IoT wireless solutions. Our current competitors include:. • fleet management SaaS and services providers, such as Fleetmatics, Masternaut, TomTom, Telogis, MiX Telematics and Cartrack;. • mobile hotspots providers, such as Netgear and Franklin Wireless;. • IoT solution providers, such as Cradlepoint and Sierra Wireless; and. • customer experience software solutions and services providers such as Amdocs.. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the features and performance of their current products and to introduce new products, services and technologies which, if successful, could reduce our sales and the market acceptance of our products, generate increased price competition and make our products obsolete. For our products to remain competitive, we must, among other things, continue to invest significant resources (financial, human and otherwise) in, among other things, research and development, sales and marketing, and customer support. We cannot be sure that we will have or will continue to have sufficient resources to make these investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances in the marketplace, meet changing customer requirements, achieve market acceptance and respond to our competitors' products.. The market for asset management and fleet management solutions and the markets for telemetry and tracking solutions are all highly fragmented and competitive, with low barriers to entry. If we do not compete effectively, our operating results may be harmed.. The market for asset management and fleet management solutions and the markets for telemetry and tracking solutions are all highly fragmented, consisting of a large number of vendors, competitive and rapidly changing product and service. 18. offerings, with relatively low barriers to entry. Competition in all these markets is based primarily on the level of difficulty in installing, using and maintaining solutions, total cost of ownership, product performance, functionality, interoperability, brand and reputation, distribution channels, industries and the financial resources of the vendor. We expect competition to intensify in the future with the introduction of new technologies and market entrants. For example, in the telematics market, mobile service and software providers, such as Google and makers of GPS navigation devices, such as Garmin, provide limited services at lower prices or at no charge, such as basic GPS- based mapping, tracking and turn-by-turn directions that could be expanded or further developed to more directly compete with our fleet management solutions. In addition, wireless carriers, such as Verizon Wireless, have begun to offer fleet management solutions that benefit from the carrier's scale and cost advantages which we are unable to match. Similarly, vehicle OEMs may provide factory-installed devices and effectively compete against us directly or indirectly by partnering with other fleet management suppliers. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to compete effectively as this ecosystem as the competitive landscape continues to develop. Competition could result in reduced operating margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and the loss of market share, any of which would likely cause serious harm to our operating results.. Industry consolidation may result in increased competition, which could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in revenue.. Some of our competitors have made or may make acquisitions or may enter into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer more comprehensive services than they individually had offered or achieve greater economies of scale. In addition, new entrants not currently considered to be competitors may enter our market through acquisitions, partnerships or strategic relationships. We expect these trends to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions. Many of the potential entrants may have competitive advantages over us, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more varied services and larger marketing budgets, as well as greater financial, technical and other resources. These pressures could result in a substantial loss of our customers, a reduction in our revenue or increased costs as we seek ways to become more competitive.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CUSTOMERS AND DEMAND FOR OUR SOLUTIONS. Our inability to adapt to rapid technological change in our markets could impair our ability to remain competitive and adversely affect our results of operations.. All of the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent introductions of new products, services and solutions and evolving customer demands. In addition, we are affected by changes in the many industries related to the products or services we offer, including the aviation, automotive, telematics, wireless telemetry, GPS navigation device and work flow software industries. As the technologies used in each of these industries evolves, we will face new integration and competition challenges. For example, as automobile manufacturers evolve in-vehicle technology, GPS tracking devices may become standard equipment in new vehicles and compete against some segments of our telematics or asset tracking service offerings. If we are unable to adapt to rapid technological change, it could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to remain competitive.. If we fail to develop and maintain strategic relationships, we may not be able to penetrate new markets.. A key element of our business strategy is to penetrate new markets by developing new service offerings through strategic relationships with industry participants. We are currently investing, and plan to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these relationships. We believe that our success in penetrating new markets for our products will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain these relationships and to cultivate additional or alternative relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to develop additional strategic relationships, that existing relationships will survive and successfully achieve their purposes or that the companies with whom we have strategic relationships will not form competing arrangements with others or determine to compete with us.. Our decision to retain the MiFi Business means that we will continue to depend upon Verizon Wireless for a substantial portion of our revenues, and our business would be negatively affected by an adverse change in our dealings with this customer.. Historically, as a result of the significant revenues associated with our MiFi Business, sales to Verizon Wireless accounted for 51%, 54% and 54% of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. While we have accelerated our engagements with prospective new MiFi customers and continue to focus on growing revenue in other parts of our business, we expect that Verizon Wireless will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenues, and any impairment of our relationship with Verizon Wireless would adversely affect our business. Additionally, any change in the forecasted or actual product sell through of Verizon Wireless could have a detrimental impact on our revenue, bottom line and cash position.. 19. We may not be able to retain and increase sales to our existing customers, which could negatively impact our financial results.. We generally seek to license our solutions pursuant to customer agreements with multi-year terms and subscriptions. However, our customers have no obligation to renew these agreements after their initial term expires. We also actively seek to sell additional solutions to our existing customers. If our efforts to satisfy our existing customers are not successful, we may not be able to retain them or sell additional functionality to them and, as a result, our revenue and ability to grow could be adversely affected. Customers may choose not to renew their subscriptions for many reasons, including the belief that our service is not required for their business needs or is otherwise not cost-effective, a desire to reduce discretionary spending, or a belief that our competitors' services provide better value. Additionally, our customers may not renew for reasons entirely out of our control, such as the dissolution of their business or an economic downturn in their industry. A significant increase in our churn rate would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.. A part of our growth strategy is to sell additional new features and solutions to our existing customers. Our ability to sell new features to customers will depend in significant part on our ability to anticipate industry evolution, practices and standards and to continue to enhance existing solutions or introduce or acquire new solutions on a timely basis to keep pace with technological developments both within our industry and in related industries, and to remain compliant with any regulations mandated by federal agencies or state-mandated or foreign government regulations as they pertain to our customers. However, we may prove unsuccessful either in developing new features or in expanding the third-party software and products with which our solutions integrate. In addition, the success of any enhancement or new feature depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the enhancement or feature. Any new solutions we develop or acquire might not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and might not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If any of our competitors implements new technologies before we are able to implement them or better anticipates the innovation and integration opportunities in related industries, those competitors may be able to provide more effective or cheaper solutions than ours.. Another part of our growth strategy is to sell additional subscriptions to existing customers as their fleet sizes increase. We cannot be assured that our customers' fleet sizes will continue to increase. A significant decrease in our ability to sell existing customers additional functionality or subscriptions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.. Loss of, or a significant reduction in business from, one or more enterprise or government customers could adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. Loss of one or more of our large enterprise or government customers could result in a meaningful decrease in revenue and profitability, as well as a material increase in our customer churn rate. Because of the variability of industries in which our enterprise and government customers operate and the unpredictability of economic conditions in any particular industry which comprises a significant number of our enterprise or government customers, the composition of, and the volume of business from, our enterprise and government customers is likely to change over time. If we lose one or more large enterprise or government customers, or if we experience a significant reduction in business from one or more large enterprise or government customers, there is no assurance that we would be able to replace those customers to generate comparable revenue over a short time period, which could harm our operating results and profitability.. Adverse economic conditions or reduced spending on information technology solutions may adversely impact our revenue and profitability.. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of adverse economic conditions in the United States and other countries, but the longer the duration, the greater risks we face in operating our business. We cannot assure you that current economic conditions, worsening economic conditions or prolonged poor economic conditions will not have a significant adverse impact on the demand for our solutions, and consequently on our results of operations and prospects.. The marketability of our products may suffer if wireless telecommunications operators do not deliver acceptable wireless services.. The success of our business depends, in part, on the capacity, affordability, reliability and prevalence of wireless data networks provided by wireless telecommunications operators and on which our IoT hardware products and solutions operate. Currently, various wireless telecommunications operators, either individually or jointly with us, sell our products in connection with the sale of their wireless data services to their customers. Growth in demand for wireless data access may be limited if, for example, wireless telecommunications operators cease or materially curtail operations, fail to offer services that customers consider valuable at acceptable prices, fail to maintain sufficient capacity to meet demand for wireless data access, delay the. 20. expansion of their wireless networks and services, fail to offer and maintain reliable wireless network services or fail to market their services effectively.. Changes in practices of insurance companies in the markets in which we provide our solutions could materially and adversely affect demand for products and services.. We depend in part on the practices of insurance companies in some of our markets to support demand for certain of our products and services. For example, in South Africa, which is currently the largest market for our Ctrack products and services, insurance companies either mandate the installation of tracking devices as a prerequisite for providing insurance coverage to owners of certain vehicles, or provide insurance premium discounts to encourage vehicle owners to subscribe to vehicle tracking and mobile asset recovery solutions such as ours. We benefit from this continued practice in the South African and certain other markets of:. • accepting mobile asset location technologies such as ours as a preferred security product;. • providing premium discounts for using location and recovery products and services such as ours; and. • mandating the use of our products and services, or similar products and services, for certain vehicles.. If any of these policies or practices change, revenues from sale of our products and services could decline, which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Reduction in regulation in certain markets may adversely impact demand for certain of our solutions by reducing the necessity for, or desirability of, our solutions.. Regulatory compliance and reporting is driven by legislation and requirements, which are often subject to change, from regulatory authorities in nearly every jurisdiction globally. For example, in the United States, fleet operators can face numerous complex regulatory requirements, including mandatory Compliance, Safety and Accountability driver safety scoring, hours of service, compliance and fuel tax reporting. The reduction in regulation in certain markets may adversely impact demand for certain of our solutions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. RISKS RELATED TO DEVELOPING, MANUFACTURING AND DELIVERING OUR SOLUTIONS. We currently rely on third parties to manufacture and warehouse many of our products, which exposes us to a number of risks and uncertainties outside our control.. We currently outsource the manufacturing of many of our products to companies including AsiaTelco Technologies Co. and Inventec Appliances Corporation. In addition, in 2016 we sold portions of our IoT modules business to Telit (as defined below), and we now rely on Telit to supply us with modules that are critical to the functionality of some of our telematics hardware devices, including devices sold or deployed by Ctrack. If one of these third-party manufacturers were to experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, product shipments to our customers could be delayed or rejected or our customers could consequently elect to change product demand or cancel the underlying subscription or service. These disruptions would negatively impact our revenues, competitive position and reputation. Further, if we are unable to manage successfully our relationship with a manufacturer, the quality and availability of products used in our services and solutions may be harmed. None of our third-party manufacturers is obligated to supply us with a specific quantity of products, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order that we have submitted to, and that has been accepted by, such third-party manufacturer. Our third-party manufacturers could, under some circumstances, decline to accept new purchase orders from us or otherwise reduce their business with us. If a manufacturer stopped manufacturing our products for any reason or reduced manufacturing capacity, we may be unable to replace the lost manufacturing capacity on a timely and comparatively cost effective basis, which would adversely impact our operations. In addition, we generally do not enter into long-term contracts with our manufacturers. As a result, we are subject to price increases due to availability, and subsequent price volatility, in the marketplace of the components and materials needed to manufacture our products. If a third-party manufacturer were to negatively change the product pricing and other terms under which it agrees to manufacture for us and we were unable to locate a suitable alternative manufacturer, our manufacturing costs could increase.. Because we outsource the manufacturing of our products, the cost, quality and availability of third-party manufacturing operations is essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers exposes us to a number of risks which are outside our control, including:. • unexpected increases in manufacturing costs;. • interruptions in shipments if a third-party manufacturer is unable to complete production in a timely manner;. 21. • inability to control quality of finished products;. • inability to control delivery schedules;. • inability to control production levels and to meet minimum volume commitments to our customers;. • inability to control manufacturing yield;. • inability to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity; and. • inability to secure adequate volumes of acceptable components at suitable prices or in a timely manner.. Although we promote ethical business practices and our operations personnel periodically visit and monitor the operations of our manufacturers, we do not control the manufacturers or their labor and other legal compliance practices. If our current manufacturers, or any other third-party manufacturer which we may use in the future, violate U.S. or foreign laws or regulations, we may be subjected to extra duties, significant monetary penalties, adverse publicity, the seizure and forfeiture of products that we are attempting to import or the loss of our import privileges. The effects of these factors could render the conduct of our business in a particular country undesirable or impractical and have a negative impact on our operating results.. We depend on sole source suppliers for some products used in our services. The availability and sale of those services would be harmed if any of these suppliers is not able to meet our demand and alternative suitable products are not available on acceptable terms, or at all.. Our services use hardware and software from various third parties, some of which are procured from single suppliers. For example, some of our vehicle tracking and fleet management solutions rely on telecommunications modules procured from Telit and our MiFi mobile hotspots rely substantially on chipsets from Qualcomm. From time to time, certain components used in our products or certain products used in our solutions have been in short supply or their anticipated commercial introduction has been delayed or their availability has been subsequently interrupted for reasons outside our control. If there is a shortage or interruption in the availability to us of any such components or products and we cannot timely obtain a commercially and technologically suitable substitute or make sufficient and timely design or other modifications to permit the use of such a substitute component or product, we may not be able to timely deliver sufficient quantities of our products or solutions to satisfy our contractual obligations and may not be able to meet particular revenue expectations. Moreover, even if we timely locate a substitute part or product, but its price materially exceeds the original cost of the component or product, then our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Product liability, product replacement, or recall costs could adversely affect our business and financial performance.. We are subject to product liability and product recall claims if any of our products and services are alleged to have resulted in injury to persons or damage to property. If any of our products proves to be defective, we may need to recall and/or redesign them. In addition, any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance may not adequately cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. We may also be a defendant in class action litigation, for which no insurance is available. Product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, we do not maintain any product recall insurance, so any product recall we are required to initiate could have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. We rely on third-party software and other intellectual property to develop and provide our solutions and significant increases in licensing costs or defects in third-party software could harm our business.. We rely on software and other intellectual property licensed from third parties to develop and offer our solutions. In addition, we may need to obtain future licenses from third parties to use software or other intellectual property associated with our solutions. We cannot assure you that these licenses will be available to us on acceptable terms, without significant price increases or at all. Any loss of the right to use any such software or other intellectual property required for the development and maintenance of our solutions could result in delays in the provision of our solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available from others, is identified, obtained, and integrated, which could harm our business. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or a failure of our solutions, which could harm our business.. Our solutions integrate with third-party technologies and if our solutions become incompatible with these technologies, our solutions would lose functionality and our customer acquisition and retention could be adversely affected.. Our solutions integrate with third-party software and devices to allow our solutions to perform key functions. Errors, viruses or bugs may be present in third-party software that our customers use in conjunction with our solutions. Changes to third-party software that our customers use in conjunction with our solutions could also render our solutions inoperable. Customers may conclude that our software is the cause of these errors, bugs or viruses and terminate their subscriptions. The inability to easily integrate with, or any defects in, any third-party software could result in increased costs, or in delays in. 22. software releases or updates to our products until such issues have been resolved, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects and could damage our reputation.. Our software may contain undetected errors, defects or other software problems, and if we fail to correct any defect or other software problems we could lose customers or incur significant costs, which could result in damage to our reputation or harm to our operating results.. Although we warrant that our software will be free of defects for various periods of time, our software platform and its underlying infrastructure are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors. We must update our solutions quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing market and the third-party software and devices with which our solutions integrate. We have from time to time found defects in our software and may discover additional defects in the future, particularly as we continue to migrate our product offerings to new platforms or use new devices in connection with our services and solutions. We may not be able to detect and correct defects or errors before customers begin to use our platform or its applications. Consequently, our solutions could contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released or when new hardware or software is integrated into our solutions. We implement bug fixes and upgrades as part of our regular system maintenance, which may lead to system downtime. Even if we are able to implement the bug fixes and upgrades in a timely manner, any history of defects or inaccuracies in the performance of our software for our customers could result in damage to our reputation or harm to our operating results.. Our solutions rely on cellular and GPS networks and any disruption, failure or increase in costs could impede our profitability and harm our financial results.. Two critical links in our current solutions are between in-vehicle devices and GPS satellites and between in-vehicle devices or customer premise equipment and cellular networks, which allow us to obtain location data and transmit it to our system. Increases in the fees charged by cellular carriers for data transmission or changes in the cellular networks, such as a cellular carrier discontinuing support of the network currently used by our in-vehicle devices or customer premise equipment, requiring retrofitting of our devices could increase our costs and impact our profitability. In addition, technologies that rely on GPS depend on the use of radio frequency bands and any modification of the permitted uses of these bands may adversely affect the functionality of GPS and, in turn, our solutions.. The mobile carriers can and will discontinue radio frequency technologies as they become obsolete. If we are unable to design our solutions into new technologies such as 4G, 4G LTE and 5G or 5G NR, our future prospects and revenues could be limited.. Any significant disruption in service on our websites or in our computer systems could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers, which would harm our business and operating results.. Our brand, reputation, and ability to attract, retain, and serve our customers are dependent upon the reliable performance of our services and our customers' ability to access our solutions at all times. Our customers rely on our solutions to make operating decisions related to their businesses, as well as to measure, store and analyze valuable data regarding their businesses. Our solutions are vulnerable to interruption and our data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, computer viruses or hackers, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures, and similar events, any of which could limit our customers' ability to access our solutions. Prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in connection with adding capacity or upgrading our network architecture may cause our service quality to suffer. Any event that significantly disrupts our service or exposes our data to misuse could damage our reputation and harm our business and operating results, including reducing our revenue, causing us to issue credits to customers, subjecting us to potential liability, harming our churn rates, or increasing our cost of acquiring new customers.. We host our solutions and serve our South African customers from our network servers, which are located at our data center facilities in South Africa. In other geographies, we host our solutions and serve our customers from network servers hosted by third parties, which are located at data center facilities in the United States, Europe and Australia. If these data centers are unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, this could have an adverse effect on our business. Our disaster recovery systems are located at third-party hosting facilities, except in South Africa where we manage our own disaster recovery system at an offsite facility. While we are increasing redundancy, our systems have not been tested under actual disaster conditions and may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage. In the event of a disaster in which our disaster recovery systems are irreparably damaged or destroyed, we would experience interruptions in access to our products. Any changes in third-party service levels at our data centers or any errors, defects, disruptions, or other performance problems with our solutions could harm our reputation and may damage our data. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or refunds to customers, subject us to potential liability, or harm our churn rates.. 23. We provide minimum service level commitments to certain of our customers, and our failure to meet them could require us to issue credits for future subscriptions or pay penalties, which could harm our results of operations.. Certain of our customer agreements currently, and may in the future, provide minimum service level commitments regarding items such as uptime, functionality or performance. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments for these customers or suffer extended periods of service unavailability, we are or may be contractually obligated to provide these customers with credits for future subscriptions, provide services at no cost, or pay other penalties which could adversely impact our revenue. We do not currently have any reserves on our balance sheet for these commitments.. Failure to maintain the security of our information and technology networks, including information relating to our customers and employees, could adversely affect us. Furthermore, if security breaches in connection with the delivery of our services allow unauthorized third parties to obtain control or access of our asset management, fleet management and telemetry solutions, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and, in the normal course of our business, we collect and retain certain information pertaining to our customers and employees. The protection of customer and employee data is critical to us. We devote significant resources to addressing security vulnerabilities in our products and information technology systems, however, the security measures put in place by us cannot provide absolute security, and our information technology infrastructure may be vulnerable to criminal cyber-attacks or data security incidents due to employee or customer error, malfeasance, or other vulnerabilities. Cybersecurity attacks are increasingly sophisticated, change frequently, and often go undetected until after an attack has been launched. We may fail to identify these new and complex methods of attack, or fail to invest sufficient resources in security measures. We cannot be certain that advances in cyber-capabilities or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our services.. If a security breach occurs, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We may also be subject to costly notification and remediation requirements if we, or a third party, determines that we have been the subject of a data breach involving personal information of individuals. Though it is difficult to determine what harm may directly result from any specific interruption or security breach, any failure or perceived failure to maintain performance, reliability, security and availability of systems or the actual or potential theft, loss, fraudulent use or misuse of our products or the personally identifiable data of a customer or employee, could result in harm to our reputation or brand, which could lead some customers to seek to stop using certain of our services, reduce or delay future purchases of our services, use competing services, or materially and adversely affect the overall market perception of the security and reliability of our services.. RISKS RELATED TO INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. Due to the global nature of our operations, we are subject to political and economic risks of doing business internationally.. Our largest subsidiary, Ctrack, is headquartered in South Africa and conducts business in over 50 countries. Most of our employees are located outside the United States, and international revenue represents a significant percentage of our worldwide revenue. The risks inherent in global operations include:. • difficulty managing sales, product development and logistics and support across continents;. • limitations on ownership or participation in local enterprises;. • lack of familiarity with, and unexpected changes in, foreign laws, regulations and legal standards, including employment laws, product liability laws, privacy laws and environmental laws, which may vary widely across the countries in which we operate;. • increased expense to comply with U.S. laws that apply to foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") and Office of Foreign Assets Control regulations;. • compliance with, and potentially adverse tax consequences of, foreign tax regimes;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency exchange controls, price controls and limitations on repatriation of earnings;. • transportation delays and interruptions;. • local labor laws;. • collective bargaining agreements or unionization of employees;. • local economic conditions;. • political, social and economic instability and disruptions;. • acts of terrorism and other security concerns;. 24. • government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions such as tariffs, duties, taxes or other controls;. • import and export controls;. • increased product development costs due to differences among countries' safety regulations and radio frequency allocation schemes and standards;. • increased expense related to localization of products and development of foreign language marketing and sales materials;. • longer sales cycles;. • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries;. • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;. • workforce reorganizations in various locations;. • restrictive employment regulations;. • difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations;. • difficulties and increased expense in implementing corporate policies and controls;. • international intellectual property laws, which may be more restrictive or offer lower levels of protection than U.S. law;. • compliance with differing and changing local laws and regulations in multiple international locations, including regional data privacy laws, as well as compliance with U.S. laws and regulations where applicable in these international locations; and. • limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies.. If we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks associated with managing and expanding our international business, the risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. Due to the additional uncertainties and risks of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, international acquisitions tend to entail risks and require additional oversight and management attention that are typically not attendant to acquisitions made within the United States. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish, acquire or integrate operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability.. Weakness or deterioration in global economic conditions or jurisdictions where we have significant foreign operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. As a result of weak or deteriorating economic conditions globally, or in certain jurisdictions where we have significant foreign operations such as South Africa, we could experience lower demand for our products, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Additionally, there could be a number of related effects on our business resulting from weak economic conditions, including the insolvency of one or more of our suppliers resulting in product launch or product delivery delays, customer insolvencies resulting in that customer's inability to order products from us or pay for already delivered products, and reduced demand by the ultimate end-users of our products. Although we continue to monitor market conditions, we cannot predict future market conditions or their impact on demand for our products.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, especially the South African Rand against the U.S. Dollar, could adversely affect our results of operations.. A significant portion of our revenues are generated from sales agreements denominated in foreign currencies, and we expect to enter into additional such agreements as we expand our international customer base. In addition, we employ a significant number of employees outside the United States, and the associated employment and facilities costs are denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We have particularly large exposure in South Africa where our Ctrack subsidiary is headquartered and the costs of operating in South Africa are subject to the effects of exchange fluctuations of the South African Rand against the U.S. Dollar. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, particularly the South African Rand against the U.S. Dollar, will create greater uncertainty in our revenues and can significantly and adversely affect our operating results.. We do not currently employ any vehicles as a hedge against currency fluctuations, however, we may decide to use hedging vehicles in the future. At times, we may attempt to manage the risk associated with currency changes, in part, by minimizing the effects of volatility on cash flows by identifying forecasted transactions exposed to these risks, or we may decide to use hedging vehicles such as foreign exchange forward contracts. Since there is a high correlation between the hedging instruments and the underlying exposures, the gains and losses on these underlying exposures are generally offset by reciprocal changes in the value of the hedging instruments. We may use derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not incur foreign. 25. currency losses or that foreign exchange forward contracts we may enter into to reduce the risk of such losses will be successful.. RISKS RELATED TO REGULATIONS, TAXATION AND ACCOUNTING MATTERS. Our substantial international operations may increase our exposure to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, tax and other laws and regulations.. The FCPA and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (\"Anti-Corruption Laws\") prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors or agents. From time to time, we may receive inquiries from authorities in the United States and elsewhere about our business activities outside of the United States and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws. While we devote substantial resources to our global compliance programs and have implemented policies, training and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors or agents may violate our policies.. Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. Operations outside of the United States may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment.. As a result of our international operations we are subject to foreign tax regulations. Such regulations may not be clear, not consistently applied and subject to sudden change, particularly with regard to international transfer pricing. Our earnings could be reduced by the uncertain and changing nature of such tax regulations.. Our software contains encryption technologies, certain types of which are subject to U.S. and foreign export control regulations and, in some foreign countries, restrictions on importation and/or use. Any failure on our part to comply with encryption or other applicable export control requirements could result in financial penalties or other sanctions under the U.S. or foreign export regulations, including restrictions on future export activities, which could harm our business and operating results. Regulatory restrictions could impair our access to technologies needed to improve our solutions and may also limit or reduce the demand for our solutions outside of the United States.. If we do not achieve applicable black economic empowerment objectives in our South African businesses, we risk not being able to renew certain of our existing contracts which service South African government and quasi-governmental customers, as well as not being awarded future corporate and governmental contracts which would result in the loss of revenue.. The South African government, through the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, No. 53 of 2003, and the codes of good practice and industry charters published pursuant thereto (collectively \"BBBEE\"), has established a legislative framework for the promotion of broad-based black economic empowerment. Achievement of BBBEE objectives is measured by a scorecard which establishes a weighting for the various components of BBBEE. BBBEE objectives are pursued in significant part by requiring parties who contract with corporate, governmental or quasi-governmental entities in South Africa to achieve BBBEE compliance through satisfaction of an applicable scorecard. Parties improve their BBBEE score when contracting with businesses that have earned good BBBEE ratings in relation to their scorecards (this includes black-owned businesses).. Ctrack has material contracts with governmental entities that require it to maintain minimum BBBEE rating levels as measured under the BBBEE scorecard. Failure to achieve applicable BBBEE objectives could jeopardize our ability to maintain existing business or to secure future business from these and other corporate, governmental or quasi-governmental customers that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are required to comply with South African labor laws with respect to certain of our employees and face the risk of disruption from labor disputes in South Africa, which could result in additional operating costs.. South African laws relating to labor that regulate work time, provide for mandatory compensation in the event of termination of employment for operational reasons, and impose monetary penalties for non-compliance with administrative and reporting requirements in respect of affirmative action policies, could result in additional operating costs. In addition, future changes to South African legislation and regulations relating to labor may increase our costs or alter our relationship with our employees and result in labor disruptions. Resulting disruptions could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 26. Evolving regulations and changes in applicable laws relating to data privacy may increase our expenditures related to compliance efforts or otherwise limit the solutions we can offer, which may harm our business and adversely affect our financial condition.. Our products and solutions enable us to collect, manage and store a wide range of data related to vehicle tracking and fleet management such as vehicle location and fuel usage, speed and mileage. Some of the data we collect or use in our business is subject to data privacy laws, which are complex and increase our cost of doing business. The U.S. federal government and various state governments have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution and use of personal information. Many foreign jurisdictions, including the European Union and the United Kingdom, have adopted legislation (including directives or regulations) that increase or change the requirements governing data collection and storage in these jurisdictions. Ctrack markets its products in over 50 countries, and accordingly, we are subject to many different, and potentially conflicting, privacy laws. If our privacy or data security measures fail to comply, or are perceived to fail to comply, with current or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations or other liabilities.. Moreover, if future laws and regulations limit our ability to use and share this data or our ability to store, process and share data with our clients over the Internet, demand for our solutions could decrease and our costs could increase. We might also have to limit the manner in which we collect information, the types of information that we collect, or the solutions we offer. Any of these could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which has now been remediated. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results timely and accurately, which could adversely affect investor confidence in the Company, and in turn, our results of operations and our stock price.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and operate successfully as a public company. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies evaluate and report on their systems of internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on its evaluation of those controls.. As disclosed in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, we previously identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting specifically from a lack of sufficient resources in key accounting and financial reporting roles within the organization necessary to prepare financial statements in time to meet regulatory filing requirements. This lack of sufficient resources was the result of a significant number of unusual and one-time challenges to the Company's personnel and financial reporting processes, including, but not limited to, implementing an internal reorganization, preparing for the anticipated divestiture of the MiFi Business and closure of the Company's accounting function in Eugene, Oregon. We completed our remediation efforts related to these material weaknesses by, among other things, updating our U.S. GAAP financial statement close process to ensure timely submission and completeness of subsidiary financial information and enhancing electronic communication to include a list of deliverables and checklists to use as a reference tool during our interim and year-end reporting periods.. Although we have remediated this material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, any failure to maintain effective internal controls could cause a delay in compliance with our reporting obligations, SEC rules and regulations or Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including, but not limited to, SEC enforcement action, ineligibility for short form registration, the suspension or delisting of our common stock from the stock exchange on which it is listed and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our common stock.. If the accounting estimates we make, and the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may be adversely affected.. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments about, among other things, allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, provision for excess and obsolete inventory, valuation of intangible and long-lived assets, valuation of goodwill, valuation of debt obligations, royalty costs, accruals relating to litigation and restructuring, provision for warranty costs, income taxes, share-based compensation expense and the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. These estimates and judgments affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made. If our estimates or the assumptions underlying them are not correct, actual results may differ materially from our estimates and we may need to, among other things, accrue additional charges that could adversely affect our results of operations, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, new accounting pronouncements and. 27. interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future that could adversely affect our reported financial results.. Any changes to the accounting systems or new accounting system implementations may be ineffective or cause delays in our ability to provide timely financial results. A change in the Company's accounting systems or new accounting system implementations could cause trial balance to drift out of balance or hinder the reconciliation of items which are time consuming to diagnose, impacting our ability to provide timely audited and unaudited financial results. Any such change could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls and could cause a delay in compliance with our reporting obligations, which could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Any changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may cause adverse fluctuations in our reported results of operations or affect how we conduct our business.. A change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements, taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation rules have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. The change to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the need for us to modify a current tax position may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.. RISKS RELATED TO OWNING OUR SECURITIES. Our share price has been highly volatile in the past and could be highly volatile in the future.. The market price of our common stock can be highly volatile due to the risks and uncertainties described in this report, as well as other factors, including: comments by securities analysts; announcements by us or others regarding, among other things, operating results, additions or departures of key personnel, and acquisitions or divestitures; additional equity or debt financing; technological innovations; introductions of new products; litigation; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, and particularly with respect to market prices and trading volumes of other high technology stocks; and our failure to meet market expectations.. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that were unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility have sometimes subsequently become the subject of securities class action litigation. If litigation were instituted on this basis, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future. We may not be able to raise such additional funds on acceptable terms or at all.. We may need to raise substantial additional capital in the future to fund our operations, develop and commercialize new products and solutions or acquire companies. If we require additional funds in the future, we may not be able to obtain those funds on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. Any debt or additional equity financing that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. In addition, restrictions in our existing debt agreements may limit the amount and/or type of indebtedness that we are able to incur.. If we do not have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient funds, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products and solutions, liquidate some or all of our assets, or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our sales and marketing expansion programs. Any of these actions could harm our operating results.. If financial or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue negative or misleading evaluations of our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. If one or more of the analysts who cover us were to adversely change their recommendation regarding our stock, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price could decline. If one or more of the analysts who cover us cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. 28. Future issuances of our common stock to holders of warrants may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock and cause dilution to our existing stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding warrants to purchase 1,886,630 shares of our common stock. These warrants are generally only exercisable on a cash basis, but may be exercised on a cashless basis if and only if a registration statement relating to the issuance of the shares underlying the warrants is not then effective or an exemption from registration is not available for the resale of such shares. Any such net exercise will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders without any corresponding benefit to the Company of a cash payment for the exercise price of such warrant.. Future settlements of any conversion obligations with respect to the Inseego Notes may result in dilution to existing stockholders, lower prevailing market prices for our common stock or require a significant cash outlay.. Prior to December 15, 2021, holders may convert their Inseego Notes only if certain conditions are met. On or after December 15, 2021, until close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their Inseego Notes at any time. The Inseego Notes are convertible into cash, shares of the Company's common stock, or a combination thereof, at the election of the Company, and are initially convertible into 25,478,728 shares of the Company's common stock, based on an initial conversion rate of 212.7660 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Inseego Notes (which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of $4.70 per share of common stock). The conversion rate is subject to adjustment if certain events occur, but in no event will the conversion rate exceed 387.5968 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Inseego Notes (which is equivalent to a conversion price of $2.58 per share of common stock). If we elect to settle conversions of the Inseego Notes with common stock, this may cause significant dilution to our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.  If we do not elect to settle conversion of the Inseego Notes solely with common stock, we would be required to settle a portion, or all, of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity.. Certain provisions in the Inseego Indenture could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover or takeover attempt of us.. Certain provisions in the Inseego Indenture could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. For example, if a takeover would constitute a fundamental change, holders of the Inseego Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their Inseego Notes in cash. In addition, if a takeover constitutes a make-whole fundamental change (as defined in the Inseego Indenture), we may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their Inseego Notes in connection with such takeover. In either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the Inseego Notes and the Inseego Indenture could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us."
