[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The IT hardware, software and services industry is intensely competitive, and actions of our competitors, including manufacturers and publishers of products we sell, can negatively affect our business. Competition in the industry is based on price, product availability, speed of delivery, credit availability, quality and breadth of product lines, and, increasingly, on the ability to provide services and tailor specific solutions to client needs. Many of our manufacturer and publisher partners are also our competitors, as many sell directly to business customers, particularly larger corporate customers. In addition to the manufacturers and publishers of products we sell, we compete with a large number and wide variety of providers and resellers of IT hardware, software and services. We believe our industry will see further consolidation as product resellers and direct marketers combine operations or acquire or merge with other resellers, service providers and direct marketers to increase efficiency, service capabilities and market share. Moreover, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their product and service offerings. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share.. 10. Table of Contents. INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.. The competitive landscape in which we operate continues to change as new technologies are developed. While innovation helps our business as it creates new offerings for us to sell, it can also disrupt our business model and create new and stronger competitors. For instance, while cloud-based solutions present an opportunity for us, cloud-based solutions and technologies that deliver technology solutions as-a-service could increase the amount of sales directly to customers rather than through solutions providers like us, or could reduce the amount of hardware or software we sell, leading to a reduction in our sales and/or profitability. Accordingly, we are dependent on continued innovations by our current vendor partners and our ability to partner with new and emerging technology providers.. Generally, pricing is very aggressive in the industry, and we expect pricing pressures to continue. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate prices as favorable as those negotiated by our competitors or that we will be able to offset the effects of price reductions with an increase in the number of clients, higher net sales, cost reductions, greater sales of services, which are typically at higher gross margins, or otherwise. Price reductions by our competitors that we either cannot or choose not to match could result in an erosion of our market share and/or reduced sales or, to the extent we match such reductions, could result in reduced operating margins or inventory impairment charges, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Some of our competitors in each of our operating segments may have greater technical, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. Many current and potential competitors also may have greater name recognition and engage in more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to their customers and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we do. Additionally, some of our competitors have higher margins and/or lower operating cost structures, allowing them to price more aggressively. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on our partners for product availability, competitive products to sell and marketing funds and purchasing incentives, which can change significantly in the amounts made available and the requirements year over year. We acquire products for resale both directly from manufacturers and publishers and indirectly through distributors, and the loss of a significant partner relationship could cause a disruption in the availability of products to us. There can be no assurance that manufacturers and publishers will continue to sell or will not limit or curtail the availability of their product to resellers like us. The loss of, or change in business relationship with, any of our key vendor partners could negatively impact our business.. In addition, certain manufacturers, publishers and distributors provide us with substantial incentives in the form of rebates, marketing funds, purchasing incentives, early payment discounts, referral fees and price protections (collectively, \"partner funding\"). Partner funding is used to offset, among other things, inventory costs, costs of goods sold, marketing costs and other operating expenses. Certain of these funds are based on our volume of sales or purchases, growth rate of net sales or purchases and marketing programs. If we do not meet the goals of these programs or if we are not in compliance with the terms of these programs, there could be a material negative effect on the amount of incentives offered or paid to us by manufacturers and publishers. We continue to experience adverse partner funding program changes that reduce the incentives many partners make available to us and that change the requirements for earning such incentives. If we are unable to react timely to remediate and respond to these changes in partner funding programs of publishers and manufacturers, including the elimination of, or significant reductions in, funding for some of the activities for which we have been compensated in the past, the changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. This is especially true in connection with the incentive programs of our largest partners: Microsoft, Dell, Cisco Systems, HP Inc. and Lenovo. There can be no assurance that we will continue to receive such incentives in the future.. Changes in the IT industry and/or rapid changes in technology may reduce demand for the IT hardware, software and services we sell or change who makes purchasing decisions for IT hardware, software and services. Our results of operations are influenced by a variety of factors, including the condition of the IT industry, shifts in demand for, or availability of, IT hardware, software, peripherals and services, and industry innovation and the introduction of new products. The IT industry is characterized by rapid technological change and the frequent introduction of new products and changing delivery channels and models, which can decrease demand for current products and services and can disrupt purchasing patterns. If we fail to react in a timely manner to such changes, we may experience lower sales and, with respect to hardware, we may have to record write-downs of obsolete inventory. In addition, in order to satisfy client demand, protect ourselves against product shortages, obtain greater purchasing discounts and react to changes in original equipment manufacturers' terms and conditions, we may decide to carry inventory of products that may have limited or no return privileges. There can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid losses related to inventory obsolescence on these products. Additionally, if purchasing power within our clients shifts from centralized procurement functions to business units or individual end users and we are unable to react timely to any such changes, these shifts in purchasing power could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. 11. Table of Contents. INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.. The cloud and \"as-a-service\" models are transforming the IT market and introducing new products, services and competitors to the market. In many cases, these new distribution models allow enterprises to obtain the benefits of commercially licensed, internally operated software with less complexity and lower initial set-up, operational and licensing costs, which increases competition for us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to adapt to, or compete effectively with, current or future distribution channels or competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The integration and operation of acquired businesses may disrupt our business and create additional expenses, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. Integration of an acquired business involves numerous risks, including assimilation of operations of the acquired business and difficulties in the convergence of IT systems, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience, assumption of unknown or unquantifiable liabilities, the potential loss of key teammates and/or clients, difficulties in completing strategic initiatives already underway in the acquired company, and unfamiliarity with partners of the acquired company, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The continued integration activities of the acquired businesses into our business is difficult and time consuming, and we may be unable to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies over the long term. We cannot assure that these risks or other unforeseen factors will not offset the intended benefits of the acquisitions, in whole or in part.. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our operating results are highly dependent upon our level of gross profit as a percentage of net sales, which fluctuates due to numerous factors, including changes in prices from partners, changes in the amount and timing of partner funding, volumes of purchases, changes in client mix, management of our cash conversion cycle, the relative mix of products and services sold during the period, general competitive conditions, and strategic product and services pricing and purchasing actions. As a result of significant price competition and our higher concentration of large enterprise clients, our gross margins are low, and we expect them to continue to be low in the future. Increased competition arising from industry consolidation and low demand for certain IT products and services may hinder our ability to maintain or improve our gross margins. These low gross margins magnify the impact of variations in revenue and operating costs on our operating results. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on anticipated net sales and the anticipated amount and timing of partner funding, and a portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed. Therefore, we may not be able to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for any unexpected net sales shortfall, and we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to mitigate any further reductions in gross margins in the future. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. In addition, a reduction in the amount of credit granted to us by our partners could increase our need for and cost of working capital and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There are risks associated with our international operations that are different than the risks associated with our operations in the United States, and our exposure to the risks of a global market could hinder our ability to maintain and expand international operations. Outside of the United States, we have operation centers in Australia, Canada, France, Germany and the United Kingdom, as well as sales offices throughout EMEA and APAC. In the regions in which we do not currently have a physical presence, we serve our clients through strategic relationships. In implementing our international strategy, we may face barriers to entry and competition from local companies and other companies that already have established global businesses, as well as the risks generally associated with conducting business internationally. The success and profitability of international operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, such as:. <U+0095>   political or economic instability;. 12. Table of Contents. INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.. <U+0095>   changes in governmental regulation or taxation (foreign and domestic);. <U+0095>   currency exchange fluctuations;. <U+0095>   changes in import/export laws, regulations and customs and duties (foreign and domestic);. <U+0095>   trade restrictions (foreign and domestic);. <U+0095>   difficulties of conducting business, managing operations, and costs of staffing in certain foreign countries;. <U+0095>   work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions;. <U+0095>   taxes and other restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States;. <U+0095>   extended payment terms;. <U+0095>   seasonal reductions in business activity in some parts of the world; and. <U+0095>   natural disasters, terrorism, civil unrest and other geopolitical uncertainties.. In addition, changes in policies and/or laws of the United States or foreign governments, including data privacy restrictions, resulting in, among other changes, higher taxation, tariffs or similar protectionist laws, currency conversion limitations, limitations on business operations, or the nationalization of private enterprises could reduce the anticipated benefits of international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, including intercompany transactions outside the United States, and we currently conduct limited hedging activities. In addition, some currencies may be subject to limitations on conversion into other currencies, which can limit the ability to otherwise react to rapid foreign currency devaluations. We cannot predict with precision the effect of future exchange-rate fluctuations, and significant rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. International operations also expose us to currency fluctuations as we translate the financial statements of our foreign operations to U.S. dollars.. General economic conditions, including unfavorable economic conditions in a particular region, business or industry sector, may lead our clients to delay or forgo investments in IT hardware, software and services. Weak economic conditions generally or any broad-based reduction in IT spending adversely affects our business, operating results and financial condition. A prolonged slowdown in the global economy or similar crisis, or in a particular region or business or industry sector, or tightening of credit markets, could cause our clients to have difficulty accessing capital and credit sources, delay contractual payments, or delay or forgo decisions to upgrade or add to their existing IT environments, license new software or purchase products or services (particularly with respect to discretionary spending for hardware, software and services). Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic or industry downturns could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of our expectations. A significant deterioration in our ability to collect on accounts receivable could also impact the cost or availability of financing under our accounts receivable securitization program.. Our sales to our public sector customers are also impacted by government spending policies, budget priorities and revenue levels. An adverse change in government spending policies (including budget cuts at the federal, state and local level), budget priorities or revenue levels could cause our public sector customers to reduce their purchases or to terminate or not renew their contracts with us. These possible actions or the adoption of new or modified procurement regulations or practices could have a material adverse effect our business, financial position and results of operations.. In addition, there continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the impact of the Referendum on the United Kingdom's Membership in the European Union (\"EU\") (referred to as \"Brexit\"), advising for the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU. Potential adverse consequences of Brexit such as global market uncertainty, volatility in currency exchange rates, greater restrictions on imports and exports between the United Kingdom and EU countries and increased regulatory complexities could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.. The acquisition of Datalink has increased our outstanding debt and interest expense and decreased the availability under our financing facilities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To fund our acquisition of Datalink in January 2017, we increased our borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility in the form of an incremental Term Loan A. These additional borrowings will have the effect of increasing our 2018 interest expense and require escalating amortization payments with a balloon payment in 2021. Additionally, our financing facilities have interest rates that vary based on market conditions and on our leverage ratio, which increases our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and may result in greater interest expense than we have forecasted.. Our financing facilities contain various covenants that we must comply with in order to avoid an occurrence of an event of default. The covenants include limitations on the payment of dividends and the requirement that we comply with maximum leverage and minimum fixed charge ratio requirements, comply with a minimum receivables requirement and meet monthly, quarterly and annual reporting requirements. Our ability to maintain compliance with our financial covenants and to make scheduled payments on our financing facilities depends on our financial and operating performance. If we were unable to maintain compliance or to repay the borrowed amounts, the lenders under our financing facilities could declare an event of default and demand payment within a specified period of time.. Breaches in the security of our electronic and other confidential information could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon automated information technology processes. Privacy, security, and compliance concerns have continued to increase as technology has evolved to facilitate commerce and as cross-border commerce increases. As part of our normal business activities, we collect and store certain confidential information, including information about teammates and information about partners and clients which may be entitled to protection under a number of regulatory regimes. In the course of normal and customary business practice, we may share some of this information with vendors who assist us with certain aspects of our business. Moreover, the success of our operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential and personal data over public networks, including the use of cashless payments. Any failure on the part of us or our vendors to maintain the security of data we are required to protect, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential and personal information, could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and private litigation with potentially large costs, and also result in deterioration in our teammates', partners' and clients' confidence in us and other competitive disadvantages, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the past, we have been subject to information security attacks. Although we do not believe the attacks resulted in the misappropriation of sensitive data, we have been, and expect to continue to be, subject to electronic data attacks and threats. Additionally, some of the hardware and software products we resell could have defects or otherwise be the subject of security breaches and other attacks. We would consider the consequences of such attacks to be the responsibility of the respective manufacturers and publishers of such products, however, if such circumstances were to arise, we could be subject to litigation.. Disruptions in our IT systems and voice and data networks could affect our ability to service our clients and cause us to incur additional expenses. We believe that our success to date has been, and future results of operations will be, dependent in large part upon our ability to provide prompt and efficient service to our clients. Our ability to provide that level of service is largely dependent on the ease of use, accuracy, quality and utilization of our IT systems, which affects our ability to manage our sales, client service, distribution, inventories and accounting systems, and the reliability of our voice and data networks and managed services offerings. If our current technology is determined to have a shorter useful life or the value of our current system is impaired, we could incur additional depreciation expense and/or impairment charges. The continuing development of our IT systems is crucial for our success. Accordingly, some of our IT systems are subject to ongoing IT projects designed to streamline or optimize the information systems. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in these efforts at all times or that there will not be implementation or integration difficulties. In addition, a substantial interruption in our IT systems or in our voice and data networks, however caused, could occur and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.. The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of our commercial and public sector contracts could result in, among other things, damages, fines or other liabilities. Sales to commercial clients are based on stated contractual terms, the terms and conditions on our website or terms contained in purchase orders on a transaction by transaction basis. Sales to public sector clients are derived from sales to federal, state and local governmental departments and agencies, as well as to educational institutions, through open market sales and various contracts and programs. Noncompliance with contract terms, particularly to highly regulated public sector clients, or with government procurement regulations and other requirements could result in fines or penalties against us or termination of contracts, and, in the public sector, could also result in civil, criminal, and administrative liability. With respect to our public sector clients, the government's remedies may include suspension or debarment. In addition, almost all of our contracts have default provisions, and substantially all of our contracts in the public sector are terminable at any time for convenience of the contracting agency.. We are exposed to risks from legal proceedings and client audits and failure to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our operations could adversely impact our business, results of operations or cash flows. We are party to various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, which include commercial, employment, tort and other litigation. Because of our significant sales to governmental entities, we also are subject to audits by federal, state, international, national, provincial and local authorities in the ordinary course of our business. We also are subject to audits by various vendor partners and large customers, including government agencies, relating to purchases and sales under various contracts. In addition, we are subject to indemnification claims under various contracts. Current and future litigation, infringement claims, governmental proceedings and investigations, audits or indemnification claims that we face may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of our management regardless of the outcome. Additionally, our operations are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations in a number of areas including areas of labor and employment, advertising, e-commerce, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, and environmental, health, and safety. Compliance with these laws, regulations and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and they may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance and doing business, and the risk of noncompliance. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no guarantee against teammates, contractors, or agents violating such laws and regulations or our policies and procedures.. We are exposed to accounts receivable risks. We extend credit to our customers for a significant portion of our net sales, typically on 30-day payment terms. We are subject to the risk that our customers may not pay for the products they have purchased, or may pay at a slower rate than we have historically experienced, the risk of which is heightened during periods of economic downturn or uncertainty or, in the case of public sector customers, during periods of budget constraints.. We rely on independent shipping companies for delivery of products and are subject to price increases or service interruptions from these carriers. We generally ship hardware products to our customers by FedEx, United Parcel Service and other commercial delivery services and invoice customers for delivery charges. If we are unable to pass on to our clients future increases in the cost of commercial delivery services, our profitability could be adversely affected. Additionally, strikes, inclement weather, natural disasters or other service interruptions by such shippers could adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on certain key personnel. We rely on key management teammates to execute our strategy to grow profitable market share. The loss of one or more of these leaders, or a failure to attract and retain new executives, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also believe that our future success will be largely dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, sales, service and technical teammates, and we make significant investments in the training of our sales account executives, architects and services engineers. If we are not able to retain such personnel or to train them quickly enough to meet changing market conditions, we could experience a drop in the overall quality and efficiency of our sales and services teammates, and that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC.. A natural disaster or other adverse occurrence at one of our primary facilities or customer data centers could damage our business. We have warehouse and distribution facilities in the United States and Canada and in the United Kingdom and Germany. If the warehouse and distribution equipment at one of our distribution centers were to be seriously damaged by a natural disaster or other adverse occurrence, we could utilize another distribution center or third-party distributors to ship products to our customers. However, this may not be sufficient to avoid interruptions in our service and may not enable us to meet all of the needs of our customers and would cause us to incur incremental operating costs. In addition, we operate customer data centers and numerous sales offices which may contain both business-critical data and confidential information of our customers. A natural disaster or other adverse occurrence at any of the customer data centers or at any of our major sales offices could negatively impact our business, results of operations or cash flows.. Changes in, interpretations of, or enforcement trends related to tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective income tax rates or operating margins and we may be required to pay additional tax assessments. We conduct business globally and file tax returns in various U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:. <U+0095>   changes in pre-tax income in various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates;. <U+0095>   increases in corporate tax rates and the availability of deductions or credits in the United States and elsewhere;. <U+0095>   changes in tax laws, regulations, and/or interpretations of such tax laws in multiple jurisdictions;. <U+0095>   tax effects related to purchase accounting for acquisitions; and. <U+0095>   resolutions of issues arising from tax examinations and any related interest or penalties.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act makes changes to the U.S. corporate tax rate, business-related deductions and taxation of foreign earnings, among others, that will generally be effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. By reducing the tax rate, these changes have reduced the value of our net U.S. deferred tax assets, resulting in a significant one-time charge in the current tax year. We are continuing to evaluate the Tax Act and its requirements, as well as its application to our business and its impact on our effective tax rate. At this point, it is unclear how many U.S. states will incorporate these federal law changes, or portions thereof, into their local laws. Our implementation of new practices and processes designed to comply with, and benefit from, the Tax Act and its rules and regulations could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices.. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation, judgment and complex calculations in situations where the ultimate tax determination may not be certain. Our determination of tax liabilities is always subject to review or examination by tax authorities in various jurisdictions. Any adverse outcome of such review or examination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property adequately, and we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims. To protect our intellectual property, we rely on copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, unpatented proprietary know-how, and patents, as well as confidentiality, invention assignment, non-solicitation and non-competition agreements. There can be no assurance that these measures will afford us sufficient protection of our intellectual property, and it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. The disclosure of our trade secrets could impair our competitive position and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our registered trademarks and trade names are subject to challenge by third parties. This may affect our ability to continue using those marks and names. Likewise, many businesses are actively investing in, developing and seeking protection for intellectual property in the areas of search, indexing, e-commerce and other Web-related technologies, as well as a variety of on-line business models and methods, all of which are in addition to traditional research and development efforts for IT products and application software, and non-practicing entities continue to invest in acquiring patent portfolios for the purpose of turning the portfolios into income-generating assets, whether through licensing campaigns or litigation. If there is a determination that we have infringed the proprietary rights of others, we could incur substantial monetary liability, be forced to stop selling infringing products or providing infringing services, be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, if available, or be prevented from using the rights, which could force us to change our business practices or hardware, software or services offerings in the future. These types of claims and challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. INSIGHT ENTERPRISES, INC."
