[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. The statements in this section describe the known material risks to our business and should be considered carefully.. Adverse Economic Conditions Could Negatively Affect Our Industry, Business and Results of Operations. The small and medium-sized business market is sensitive to changes in economic activity levels as well as the credit markets. As a result, the demand for the outsourced HR services we provide clients could be adversely impacted by weak economic conditions or difficulty obtaining credit. Current and prospective clients may respond to such conditions by reducing employment levels, compensation levels, employee benefit levels and outsourced HR services. In addition, during periods of weak economic conditions, current clients may have difficulty meeting their financial obligations to us and may select alternative HR services at more competitive rates than we offer. Such developments could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and future growth rates.. -. 17. -. Table of Contents. We Assume Liability for Worksite Employee Payroll, Payroll Taxes and Benefits Costs and Are Responsible for Their Payment Regardless of the Amount Billed to or Paid by Our Clients. Under the CSA, we become a co-employer of worksite employees and assume the obligations to pay the salaries, wages and related benefits costs and payroll taxes of such worksite employees. We assume such obligations as a principal, not as an agent of the client. Our obligations include responsibility for:. • payment of the salaries and wages for work performed by worksite employees, regardless of whether the client timely pays us the associated service fee. • withholding and payment of federal and state payroll taxes with respect to wages and salaries reported by Insperity. • providing benefits to worksite employees even if our costs to provide such benefits exceed the fees the client pays us. If a client does not pay us, or if the costs of benefits we provide to worksite employees exceed the fees a client pays us, our ultimate liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Increases in Health Insurance Costs or Inability to Secure Replacement Contracts on Competitive Terms Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition or Results of Operations. Maintaining health insurance plans that cover worksite employees is a significant part of our business. Our primary health insurance contract expires on December 31, 2019, subject to cancellation by either party upon 180 days' notice. In the event we are unable to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms, significant disruption to our business could occur.. Health insurance costs are in part determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. If we experience an increase in the number or severity of claims, our health insurance costs could increase. Claim activity levels and costs are impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, macro-economic changes, proposed and enacted regulatory changes and medical outbreaks. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit or delay our ability to incorporate increases in costs into our service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to our health insurance costs, please read Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Benefits Costs.\". Health Care Reform Could Affect Our Health Insurance Plan and Could Lead to a Significant Disruption in Our Business. The PPACA was signed into law on March 23, 2010. The PPACA was subsequently amended on March 30, 2010 by the Reconciliation Act. The Act entails sweeping health care reforms with original staggered effective dates from 2010 through 2018, some of which were subsequently extended out as far as 2022. Some provisions in the Act still require the issuance of additional guidance from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (\"HHS\") and the states.. Beginning in 2014, a number of key provisions of the Act took effect, including the Exchanges, insurance market reforms and the imposition of excise taxes on the health insurance industry and reinsurance taxes on insurers and third-party administrators. Additionally, the pay or play penalties on Applicable Large Employers were fully phased-in by 2016. As part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 2017, the requirements that individuals maintain health insurance coverage or pay a penalty, which was known as the individual mandate, was effectively eliminated beginning in 2019.  In January 2018, the excise tax for offering \"Cadillac Plans\" was further delayed until 2022. In addition, supporters in various states are advocating for adoption of healthcare-related reforms at the state level.  Collectively, these items have the potential to significantly change the insurance marketplace for small and medium sized businesses and how employers provide insurance to employees. In addition, as a co-employer in the PEO relationship, we assume or share many of the employer-related responsibilities and assist our clients in complying with many employment-related governmental regulations. Generally, the Act and subsequently issued guidance by the IRS and HHS have not addressed or in some instances are unclear as to their application in the PEO relationship or whether such provisions should be applied at the PEO or client level.. Although we do not believe that the Act has had a material adverse effect on our benefit plans, business model or operations to date, the elimination of the penalty associated with the individual mandate and subsequent changes resulting from action that may be taken at the federal or state level, including repeal or repeal and replacement of the Act as has been advocated by Congressional leaders and the administration of President Trump, may impact our benefit plans, business model and future results of operations. In future periods, changes may result in increased costs to us and could affect our ability to attract and retain clients. Additionally, contractual arrangements and competitive market conditions may limit or delay our. -. 18. -. Table of Contents. ability to increase service fees to offset any associated potential increased costs. For additional information related to the Act, please read Item 1. \"Business - Industry Regulations - Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.\" We are currently unable to determine whether potential future changes to the Act or other regulatory action, including at the state level, may adversely affect our business or market conditions.. Increases in Workers' Compensation Costs or Inability to Secure Replacement Coverage on Competitive Terms Could Lead to a Significant Disruption to Our Business. Our workers' compensation coverage has been provided through an arrangement with Chubb (formerly ACE American Insurance Company) since 2007. Under our current arrangement with Chubb, we have a financial responsibility to Chubb for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence and for claims over $1 million, up to a maximum aggregate amount of $5 million per policy year for claims that exceed the first $1 million. Chubb bears the financial responsibility for all claims in excess of these levels. The Chubb Program is a fully insured program whereby Chubb has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policies regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. For additional discussion of our policy with Chubb, please read Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Workers' Compensation Costs.\". Workers' compensation costs are a significant portion of our direct costs. If we were to experience an unexpected large increase in the number or severity of claims, our workers' compensation costs could increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. The current workers' compensation coverage with Chubb expires on September 30, 2018. In the event we are unable to secure replacement coverage on competitive terms, significant disruption to our business could occur.. Our Ability to Adjust and Collect Service Fees for Increases in Unemployment Tax Rates May be Limited. We record our SUI tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. SUI tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years' compensation experience in each state. Prior to the receipt of final tax rate notices, we estimate our expected SUI tax rate in those states for which tax rate notices have not yet been received for purposes of pricing. In a period of adverse economic conditions state unemployment funds may experience a significant increase in the number of unemployment claims. Accordingly, SUI tax rates would likely increase substantially. Some states have the ability under law to increase SUI tax rates retroactively to cover deficiencies in the unemployment fund.. In addition, FUTA may be retroactively increased in certain states in the event the state fails to timely repay federal unemployment loans. Employers in such states are experiencing higher FUTA tax rates as a result of not repaying their unemployment loans from the federal government in a timely manner. The Benefit Cost Ratio Add-On (\"BCR\") is an additional tax on the FUTA wage base for employers in states that continue to have outstanding federal unemployment insurance loans beginning with the fifth year in which there is a balance due on the loan. States have the option to apply for a waiver before July 1stof the year in which the BCR is applicable.. Generally, our contractual agreements allow us to incorporate such statutory tax increases into our service fees upon the effective date of the rate change. However, our ability to fully adjust service fees in our billing systems and collect such increases over the remaining term of the clients' contracts could be limited, resulting in a potential tax increase not being fully recovered. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Many of Our Contracts for Our PEO HR Outsourcing Solutions May be Canceled on Short Notice.  Our Inability to Renew Client Contracts or Attract New Clients Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Financial Conditions or Results of Operations. Our standard CSA can generally be canceled by us or the client with 30 days' notice. Accordingly, the short-term nature of the CSA makes us vulnerable to potential cancellations by existing PEO HR Outsourcing Solution clients, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, in the event we have a high proportion of terminating clients from our middle market client base (which are generally subject to CSAs with two-year terms), the financial impact of such an event could be significant due to the number of worksite employees involved and the longer time it takes to replace middle market clients. Also, our results of operations are dependent in part upon our ability to retain or replace our clients upon the termination or cancellation of the CSA. Our client attrition rate was approximately 15% in 2017. There can be no assurance that the number of contract cancellations will continue at these levels and such cancellations may increase in the future due to various factors, including economic conditions in the markets we operate. Clients electing to purchase our services or electing an alternative solution often do so at the beginning of the calendar year. As a result, we typically experience our largest concentration of new client additions and attrition in the first quarter of each year.. -. 19. -. Table of Contents. We May Be Subject to Liabilities for Client and Employee Actions. A number of legal issues remain unresolved with respect to the co-employment arrangement between a PEO and its worksite employees, including questions concerning the ultimate liability for violations of employment, payroll and discrimination laws. Our CSA establishes the contractual division of responsibilities between Insperity and our clients for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various governmental regulations.. Because we act as a co-employer, we may be subject to liability for violations of various employment, payroll and discrimination laws despite these contractual provisions, even if we do not participate in such violations. Although the CSA generally requires the client to indemnify us for certain liabilities attributable to the client's conduct, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and thus may be responsible for satisfying such liabilities to the extent that such liabilities are not covered or insured against under our insurance policies. In addition, worksite employees may be deemed to be our agents, which may subject us to liability for the actions of such worksite employees.. Competition and Other Developments in the HR Services Industry May Impact Our Growth and/or Profitability. The human resources services industry, including the PEO industry, is highly fragmented. Many PEOs have limited operations and fewer than 1,000 worksite employees, but there are several industry participants that are comparable to our size or larger. We also encounter competition from \"fee for service\" companies such as payroll processing firms, insurance companies, human resources consultants and human resources technology solutions as well as cloud-based self-service bundled human resources offerings. Our competitors include the PEO divisions of large business services companies, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc., and other national PEOs such as TriNet Group, Inc. In many cases, these competitors offer a reduced service PEO offering at a lower price than our PEO HR Outsourcing solutions. We expect that as the PEO industry grows and its regulatory framework becomes better established, well organized competition with greater resources than we have may enter the PEO market, possibly including large \"fee for service\" companies currently providing a more limited range of services. In addition, competitors may be able to offer or develop new technology-based lower service models that may require us to make substantial investments in order to effectively compete.. We offer a lower priced reduced service level PEO offering referred to as Workforce Synchronization in response to certain middle market client needs and the evolving PEO marketplace. As of December 2017, approximately 12% of our worksite employees were co-employed by Workforce Synchronization clients. In the event we were to experience a significant increase in the number of clients using the Workforce Synchronization offering or increased pricing pressures in the PEO marketplace without corresponding reductions in operating costs, our operating margins may decline, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in Federal, State and Local Regulation or Our Inability to Obtain Licenses Under New Regulatory Frameworks Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations or Financial Condition. As a major employer, our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax, benefit, insurance and employment matters. By entering into a co-employer relationship with employees assigned to work at client locations, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these current laws (such as the Act, ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non-traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of \"employer\" under these laws is not uniform despite the SBEA having provided clarification under federal employment tax laws for CPEOs. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of new or existing federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees and client companies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. While some states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 41 states have passed laws that have recognition, licensing, certification or registration requirements for PEOs and several other states are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co-employment relationship for unemployment, workers' compensation and other purposes under state law. In addition, the SBEA provides certain benefits for companies that qualify as a CPEO. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we may not be able to satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for all states. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our licenses in all states or that we will be able to maintain our CPEO designation.. -. 20. -. Table of Contents. Geographic Market Concentration Makes Our Results of Operations Vulnerable to Regional Economic Factors. Our New York, California and Texas markets accounted for approximately 10%, 17% and 22% (including 10% in Houston), respectively, of our worksite employees for the year ended December 31, 2017. Accordingly, while we have a goal of expanding in our current markets and into new markets, for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues may be subject to economic factors specific to New York, California and Texas.. A Determination that a Client is Liable for Employment Taxes Not Paid by a PEO May Discourage Clients from Contracting with Us in the Future. Under the CSA, we assume sole responsibility and liability for paying federal employment taxes imposed under the Code with respect to wages and salaries we pay our worksite employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations:. • income tax withholding requirements. • FICA. • FUTA. Under the Code, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. The SBEA clarifies that a CPEO is treated as the employer for purposes of federal payroll taxes on wages it pays to worksite employees. Most states impose similar employment tax obligations on the employer. While the CSA provides that we have sole legal responsibility for making these tax contributions, the applicable state taxing authority could conclude that such liability cannot be completely transferred to us. Accordingly, in the event that we fail to meet our tax withholding and payment obligations, the client may be held jointly and severally liable for those obligations. While this interpretive issue has not, to our knowledge, discouraged clients from enrolling with Insperity, a definitive adverse resolution of this issue may discourage clients from enrolling in the future.. Failure of Our Information Technology Systems, Including From Cyber Attacks and Data Breaches, Could Damage Our Reputation, Materially Disrupt Our Business Operations, and Increase Our Costs and Cause Losses. Many of the HR services offerings we provide to clients are conducted through a technology infrastructure using both internally developed and purchased commercial software, a wide variety of hardware infrastructure technologies, and a multi-carrier wide area network. The processing of payroll, benefits and other transactions is dependent upon this complex infrastructure, some of which is provided by third party vendors. Hardware or applications we develop or procure from third party vendors may contain defects in design or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of data or our systems. Any delays or failures caused by network outages, software or hardware failures, or other data processing disruptions, could result in our inability to timely process transactions. If such failures cause us to not meet client service expectations, we may lose existing clients and may have difficulty attracting new clients.. In connection with our HR services offerings, we collect, use, transmit and store large amounts of personal and business information about our worksite employees and clients, including payroll information, personal and business financial data, social security numbers, bank account numbers, tax information and other sensitive personal and business information. We are focused on ensuring that the technology infrastructure that we use safeguards and protects personal and business information. We have programs in place to prevent, detect and respond to data security incidents, and we take steps to require that our third party vendors protect sensitive information. Nonetheless, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency and sophistication, and we and our third party vendors are targeted by unauthorized parties using malicious tactics, code and viruses. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access and disable or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we and our third party vendors may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. As these threats continue to evolve, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. While our technology infrastructure is designed to safeguard and protect personal and business information, we do not have the ability to monitor the implementation of similar safeguards by our vendors, clients or worksite employees.. Any cyber-attack, unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, corruption of data, or theft of private or other sensitive information, or inadvertent acts by our own employees, could result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, and could have a material adverse effect on our business operations or that of our clients, result in liability or regulatory sanction, or cause a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients. Although we. -. 21. -. Table of Contents. believe that we maintain a stringent program of information security and controls, the impact of a data security incident could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are also subject to various federal and state laws, rules and regulations relating to the collection, use, transmission and security of personal and business information. Most states and the District of Columbia have enacted notification rules that may require notification to regulators, clients or employees in the event of a privacy breach. It is possible that these federal and states laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. The future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations could have a material adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our businesses and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant liability.. The Failure of Our Insurance Carriers or Financial Institutions Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. As part of our PEO HR Outsourcing solutions, we contract with various insurance carriers to provide insurance coverage including health insurance, workers' compensation insurance and employment practices liability insurance. In addition, we obtain insurance coverage for various commercial risks in our business such as property insurance, errors and omissions insurance, cyber liability insurance, general liability insurance, fiduciary liability insurance, automobile liability insurance, and directors' and officers' liability insurance. The failure of any insurance carrier providing such coverage could leave us exposed to uninsured risk and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In conjunction with providing services to clients, we rely on financial institutions to electronically transfer funds for the collection of our comprehensive service fee as well as the payment of wages and associated payroll tax withholdings. Failure by these financial institutions, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us.. New and Higher Federal, State and Local Taxes Could Have a Material and Adverse Impact on Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In times of economic slowdowns, states and municipalities in which we operate may experience reductions in tax revenues and corresponding budget deficits. In response to the budget shortfalls, many states and municipalities have in the past and may in the future increase or enact new taxes on businesses operating within their tax jurisdiction, including business activity taxes and income taxes. In addition, federal, state and local taxing agencies may increase their audit activity in an effort to identify additional tax revenues. New tax assessments on our operations could result in increased costs. Our ability to adjust our service fees and incorporate additional tax assessments into our billing system could be limited. As a result, such higher taxes could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. Failure to Integrate or Realize the Expected Return on Our Acquisitions and Investments Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Financial Condition or Results of Operations. We have adopted a strategy to market and sell additional products and services within and outside of traditional PEO HR Outsourcing solutions. As part of this strategy, periodically we make strategic long-term decisions to invest in and/or acquire new companies, business units or assets. Acquiring new businesses involves a number of risks such as over-valuation of the acquired companies, entering markets or businesses in which we have no prior experience, integrating the technology, operations, and personnel, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and litigation resulting from the activities of the acquired company. The occurrence of one or more of these events could result in the loss of existing or prospective clients or employees, not achieving anticipated revenues or profitability, or impairment of acquired assets. Such developments could have a material impact to our financial condition, results of operations and future growth rates.. In connection with our goodwill impairment assessments, we recorded impairment charges of $2.5 million in our Employment Screening reporting unit in 2014 and $3.3 million in our Expense Management reporting unit in 2013. In addition, we recorded a $2.7 million impairment charge related to our minority investment in The Receivables Exchange in 2013. Based on market conditions or changes in operating plans, the fair value of our other acquired businesses could decline, requiring us to record additional impairment charges for all or portions of the investments.. Our Business Could Be Disrupted as a Result of Actions of Certain Stockholders. If any of our stockholders commence a proxy contest, advocate for change, make public statements critical of our performance or business, or engage in other similar activities, then our business could be adversely affected because we may have difficulty attracting and retaining clients due to perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and negative public. -. 22. -. Table of Contents. statements about our business; responding to proxy contests and other similar actions by stockholders is likely to result in us incurring substantial additional costs and significantly divert the attention of management and our employees; and, if individuals are elected to our Board with a specific agenda, the execution of our strategic plan may be disrupted or a new strategic plan altogether may be implemented, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, any of these matters or any such actions by stockholders may impact and result in volatility of the price of our common stock."
