[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following factors, in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other documents incorporated herein by reference, before deciding whether to purchase or sell our common stock.  Any or all of the following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Sales of our principal products have been and may continue to be affected by adverse economic cycles in the renovation and construction of commercial and institutional buildings.. Sales of our principal products are related to the renovation and construction of commercial and institutional buildings. This activity is cyclical and has been affected by the strength of a country’s or region’s general economy, prevailing interest rates and other factors that lead to cost control measures by businesses and other users of commercial or institutional space. The effects of cyclicality upon the corporate office segment tend to be more pronounced than the effects upon the institutional segment. Historically, we have generated more sales in the corporate office segment than in any other market. The effects of cyclicality upon the new construction segment of the market also tend to be more pronounced than the effects upon the renovation segment. These effects may recur and could be more pronounced if global economic conditions do not improve or are weakened.. We compete with a large number of manufacturers in the highly competitive floorcovering products market, and some of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do.  We may face challenges competing on price, making investments in our business or on product design.. The floorcovering industry is highly competitive. Globally, we compete for sales of floorcovering products with other carpet manufacturers and manufacturers of other types of floorcovering. Although the industry has experienced significant consolidation, a large number of manufacturers remain in the industry.  Moreover, some of our competitors are adding manufacturing capacity into the industry throughout the globe which could increase the amount of supply in the market.  Increased capacity at our competitors could result in pricing pressure on our products (including products, like LVT, which may currently carry attractive margins) and less demand for our products, thus adversely affecting both revenues and profitability.. Some of our competitors, including a number of large diversified domestic and foreign companies who manufacture modular carpet as one segment of their business, have greater financial resources than we do.  Competing effectively may require us to make additional investments in our product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities.. In addition, we often compete on design preferences.  Our customers’ design preferences may evolve or change before we adapt quickly enough to those changes or before we recognize those changes have happened in the marketplace. If this occurs, it could negatively affect our sales as our customers choose other product offerings.. Our success depends significantly upon the efforts, abilities and continued service of our senior management executives, our principal design consultant and other key personnel (including sales personnel), and our loss of any of them could affect us adversely.. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management executives. In addition, we rely significantly on the leadership that David Oakey of David Oakey Designs provides to our internal design staff. Specifically, David Oakey Designs provides product design/production engineering services to us under an exclusive consulting contract that contains non-competition covenants. Our agreement with David Oakey Designs can be terminated by either party upon six months prior written notice to the other party. Our business also depends on the recruitment and retention of other key personnel, including strong sales leaders.. We may lose the services of key personnel for a variety of reasons, including if our compensation programs become uncompetitive in the relevant markets for our employees and service providers, or if the Company undergoes significant disruptive change (including not only economic downturns, but potentially changes management believes are positive in the long term). The loss of key personnel with a great deal of knowledge, training and experience in the carpet industry – particularly in the areas of sales, marketing, operations, product design and management – could have an adverse impact on our business. We may not be able to easily replace such personnel, particularly if the underlying reasons for the loss make the Company relatively unattractive as an employer.. We are implementing a multi-year transformation of our sales organization, including the implementation of standardized processes in which our sales force goes to market, interacts with customers, works with the architect and design community and, in general, operates day-to-day.  We are also implementing technology tools that the sales force will be required to use as part of their day-to-day jobs, and new management positions to actively manage and coach the sales force.  All of these changes are disruptive, which may create challenges for our sales force to adapt, particularly for long tenured employees, which comprise a large portion of our sales force.  There are no guarantees that these efforts will increase sales or improve profitability of the business, or that they will not instead adversely disrupt the business, decrease sales, and decrease overall profitability.. Our substantial international operations are subject to various political, economic and other uncertainties that could adversely affect our business results, including by restrictive taxation or other government regulation and by foreign currency fluctuations.. We have substantial international operations. In 2017, approximately half of our net sales and a significant portion of our production were outside the United States, primarily in Europe and Asia-Pacific. Our corporate strategy includes the expansion and growth of our international business on a worldwide basis. As a result, our operations are subject to various political, economic and other uncertainties, including risks of restrictive taxation policies, changing political conditions and governmental regulations. This includes, for example, the uncertainty surrounding the implementation and effect of the United Kingdom’s June 2016 referendum in which voters approved the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union, including changes to the legal and regulatory framework that apply to the United Kingdom and its relationship with the European Union. We also make a substantial portion of our net sales in currencies other than U.S. dollars (approximately half of 2017 net sales), which subjects us to the risks inherent in currency translations. The scope and volume of our global operations make it impossible to eliminate completely all foreign currency translation risks as an influence on our financial results. In addition, political unrest, terrorist acts, military conflict and disease outbreaks have increased the risks of doing business abroad generally.. 13. Table of Contents. Concerns regarding European sovereign debt and market perceptions about the instability of the euro, the potential re-introduction of individual currencies within the Eurozone, the potential dissolution of the euro entirely, or the U.K. exiting the European Union, could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Following the European sovereign debt crisis that began in 2011, concerns still persist regarding the debt burden of certain countries using the euro as their currency (the “Eurozone”) and their ability to meet future financial obligations, the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. Despite remedial efforts undertaken by the European Commission and others, these concerns have caused instability in the euro and could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. Should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations or increase the risks of foreign currency fluctuations or cause the failure of hedging programs intended to reduce those risks. In addition, concerns over these effects on financial institutions in Europe and globally could have an adverse impact on the capital markets generally, and more specifically on our ability and the ability of our customers, suppliers and lenders to finance our and their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, on the availability of supplies and materials, and on the demand for our products.. In addition, the results of a June 2016 referendum vote in the U.K. were in favor of the U.K. exiting the European Union (the “Brexit Vote”).  On March 29, 2017, the U.K. notified the European Union of its intention to withdraw pursuant to Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. The terms of the withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years from the withdrawal notification date.  The uncertainty leading up to and following the Brexit Vote has had a negative impact on our business and demand for our products in Europe, and particularly in the U.K.  In addition, the Brexit Vote has had a detrimental effect, and could have further detrimental effects, on the value of either or both of the euro and the British Pound Sterling, which could negatively impact our business (principally from the translation of sales and earnings in those foreign currencies into our reporting currency of U.S. dollars).  Such a development could have other unpredictable adverse effects, including a material adverse effect on demand for office space and our carpet products in the U.K. and in Europe if a U.K. exit leads to economic difficulties in Europe.. Large increases in the cost of petroleum-based raw materials could adversely affect us if we are unable to pass these cost increases through to our customers.. Petroleum-based products comprise the predominant portion of the cost of raw materials that we use in manufacturing. While we attempt to match cost increases with corresponding price increases, continued volatility in the cost of petroleum-based raw materials could adversely affect our financial results if we are unable to pass through such price increases to our customers.. Unanticipated termination or interruption of any of our arrangements with our primary third party suppliers of synthetic fiber or our sole third party supplier for luxury vinyl tile (“LVT”) could have a material adverse effect on us.. We depend on a small number of third party suppliers of synthetic fiber and a single supplier for our LVT products. The unanticipated termination or interruption of any of our supply arrangements with our current suppliers of synthetic fiber (nylon) or sole supplier of LVT, including failure by any third party supplier to meet our product specifications, could have a material adverse effect on us because we do not have the capability to manufacture our own fiber for use in our carpet products or our own LVT. Our suppliers may not be able to meet our demand for a variety of reasons, including our inability to forecast our future needs accurately or a shortfall in production by the supplier for reasons unrelated to us, such as work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquake, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. If any of our supply arrangements with our primary suppliers of synthetic fiber or our sole supplier of LVT is terminated or interrupted, we likely would incur increased manufacturing costs and experience delays in our manufacturing process (thus resulting in decreased sales and profitability) associated with shifting more of our synthetic fiber purchasing to another synthetic fiber supplier or developing new supply chain sources for LVT. A prolonged inability on our part to source synthetic fiber included in our products or LVT on a cost-effective basis could adversely impact our ability to deliver products on a timely basis, which could harm our sales and customer relationships.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could have important negative consequences to us.. Our significant indebtedness could have important negative consequences to us, including:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaking it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to such indebtedness;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or other growth initiatives, and other general corporate requirements;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or other growth initiatives, and other general corporate requirements;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tplacing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness as it matures.. 14. Table of Contents. As a consequence of our level of indebtedness, a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to debt service requirements. In addition, borrowings under our Syndicated Credit Facility have variable interest rates, and therefore our interest expenses will increase if the underlying market rates (upon which the variable interest rates are based) increase. The terms of our Syndicated Credit Facility also limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments or investments in certain situations, consummate certain asset sales, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, create liens, merge or consolidate with any other person, or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. They also require us to comply with certain other reporting, affirmative and negative covenants and meet certain financial tests. If we fail to satisfy these tests or comply with these covenants, a default may occur, in which case the lenders could accelerate the debt as well as any other debt to which cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions apply. Our Syndicated Credit Facility matures in August 2022. We cannot assure you that we would be able to renegotiate, refinance or otherwise obtain the necessary funds to satisfy these obligations.. It is important for you to consider that we have a significant amount of indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renegotiate or refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to refinance our debt or obtain new financing, we would have to consider other options, such as selling assets to meet our debt service obligations and other liquidity needs, or using cash, if available, that would have been used for other business purposes.. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and the value of your investment may decline.. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile going forward. Such volatility may cause precipitous drops in the price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and may cause your investment in our common stock to lose significant value. As a general matter, market price volatility has had a significant effect on the market values of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. We thus cannot predict the market price for our common stock going forward.. Our earnings in a future period could be adversely affected by non-cash adjustments to goodwill, if a future test of goodwill assets indicates a material impairment of those assets.. As prescribed by accounting standards governing goodwill and other intangible assets, we undertake an annual review of the goodwill asset balance reflected in our financial statements. Our review is conducted during the fourth quarter of the year, unless there has been a triggering event prescribed by applicable accounting rules that warrants an earlier interim testing for possible goodwill impairment. In the past, we have had non-cash adjustments for goodwill impairment as a result of such testings ($61.2 million in 2008 and $44.5 million in 2007). A future goodwill impairment test may result in a future non-cash adjustment, which could adversely affect our earnings for any such future period.. Changes to our facilities could disrupt our operations.. From time to time, we make improvements to our physical facilities, or move operations to new ones.  Large scale changes or moves could disrupt our normal operations, leading to possible loss of productivity, which may adversely affect our results.. The company will be moving its corporate headquarters in 2018. The transition and relocation of the company’s headquarters could be disruptive and could create a distraction to management in running day-to-day operations which could adversely affect the business.. We are also making significant investments and modifications to our manufacturing facilities in LaGrange Georgia. At times this process can be disruptive, and there is no guarantee that these efforts will yield the financial returns and improvements in the business that we hope to achieve from them. In addition, while these changes are intended to yield stronger financial results, they could potentially adversely affect financial results due to project delays, business disruption as new facilities and equipment come online, and general disruption as we make changes and modifications to our manufacturing facilities and processes.. Our business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events.. While we manufacture our products in several facilities and maintain insurance covering our facilities, including business interruption insurance, our manufacturing facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornadoes, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire or other unexpected events such as adverse weather conditions or other disruptions to our facilities, supply chain or our customers’ facilities. For example, in July 2012, a fire occurred at our manufacturing facility in Picton, Australia, causing extensive damage and rendering the facility inoperable. In January 2014, we commenced operations at a new manufacturing facility in Minto, Australia. We could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to our reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Disruptions to or failures of our information technology systems could adversely effect on our business.. We rely heavily on information technology systems—both software and computer hardware—to operate our business. We rely on these systems to, among other things:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfacilitate and plan the purchase, management and distribution of, and payment for, inventory and raw materials;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tControl our production processes;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmanage and monitor our distribution network and logistics;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treceive, process and ship orders;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmanage billing, collections and payables;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmanage financial reporting; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmanage payroll and human resources information.. 15. Table of Contents. Our IT systems may be disrupted or fail for a number of reasons, including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnatural disasters, like fires;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpower loss;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsoftware “bugs”, hardware defects or human error; or. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thacking, computer viruses, malware, ransomware or other cyber attacks.. Any of these events which deny us use of vital IT systems may seriously disrupt our normal business operations. These disruptions may lead to production or shipping stoppages, which may in turn lead to material revenue loss and reputational harm. There is no guarantee that our backup systems or disaster recovery procedures will be adequate to mitigate losses due to IT system disruptions in a timely fashion, and we may incur significant expense in correcting IT system emergencies.. To the extent our IT systems store sensitive data, including about our employees, security breaches may expose us to other serious liabilities and reputational harm if such data is misappropriated. In addition, as cybercriminals continue to become more sophisticated, the costs to defend and insure against cyberattacks can be expected to rise.. Our Rights Agreement could discourage tender offers or other transactions for our stock that could result in shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for our stock.. Our Board of Directors has adopted a Rights Agreement pursuant to which holders of our common stock will be entitled to purchase from us a fraction of a share of our Series B Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock if a third party acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock without our consent. In addition, the holders of our common stock will be entitled to purchase the stock of an Acquiring Person (as defined in the Rights Agreement) at a discount upon the occurrence of triggering events. These provisions of the Rights Agreement could have the effect of discouraging tender offers or other transactions that could result in shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for our common stock."                                                                                     
