[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. We believe the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are material to an understanding of our company. Any of the following risks as well as other risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and cause the value of our stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that are currently deemed immaterial, also may affect us.. Risks Related to our Business. Our revenue decreased in the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, and there can be no assurances that our revenue will not continue to decline.. In the year ended December 31, 2017, our consolidated revenue declined by approximately 9.1% from 2016 primarily due to a decline in revenue from our financial institution clients, which is primarily the result of normal subscriber attrition within the portfolios we continue to service. We may continue to lose existing subscribers and the corresponding revenue due to a number of factors, including normal attrition and potential actions taken by our financial institution clients or us. We need to replace the revenue from the loss of new and existing subscribers with our other products and services, and there can be no assurances that we will be successful in doing so. Our failure to increase our revenue or grow our profitability likely could continue to adversely affect the value of our common stock.. We incurred consolidated losses from continuing operations of $11.8 million and $3.4 million in the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We may continue to incur substantial expenses from increased overhead costs to grow our sales and business development departments, and we cannot give assurances of our future profitability.. We incurred significant consolidated loss from continuing operations in 2017 and 2016 primarily due to the decline in revenue in our Personal Information Services and Insurance and Other Consumer Services segments. In 2017, we divested our non-core businesses (including the Pet Health Monitoring and Bail Bonds Industry Solutions segments), which allows us to concentrate our resources to improve our core identity theft protection subscribers, revenue and results. However, there can be no assurances that we will not continue to report significant consolidated operating losses in future periods. We cannot predict whether we will be able to become profitable on an annual basis in the future, as we may not generate sufficient revenue to obtain and maintain profitability and expect to continue to incur significant expenses to maintain and expand our Identity Guard® and Identity Guard® with Watson\231 products. We also may incur additional costs associated with our regulatory compliance as we are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations, which may make it more difficult for us to achieve future profitability. If we are unable to become profitable, we may not be able to execute our business plan, our prospects may be harmed, and our stock price could further decline.. We are dependent upon our Personal Information Services segment for substantially all of our revenue, and our revenue from that segment may continue to decrease, primarily due to the attrition of subscribers obtained through our historical financial institution clients.. Approximately 96% of our revenue in the year ended December 31, 2017 was derived from our Personal Information Services segment. We are entirely dependent on revenue from this segment. Our revenue for this segment declined in 2017 by approximately 6.4% from 2016 as our subscriber base obtained through our historical financial institution clients continued to decline in excess of new subscribers in our suite of Identity Guard® products. Therefore, adverse developments in this business segment could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have lost subscribers in prior years, and may lose subscribers in future years, due to numerous factors, including changing subscriber preferences; subscriber dissatisfaction; cancellations required by marketing partners, or for regulatory or other reasons; competitive price pressure; recurring billing issues, such as changes to their credit card billing practices or policies; credit card or other billing vehicle declines or turnover, including as a result of a refinancing or account cancellation; and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, our total number of subscribers may continue to decline during 2018. Our failure to increase our revenue likely would continue to adversely affect the value of our common stock.. Laws requiring the free issuance of credit reports by credit reporting agencies, and other services that must be provided by credit reporting agencies, could impede our ability to obtain new subscribers or retain existing subscribers and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The Fair Credit Reporting Act provides consumers the ability to receive one free consumer credit report per year from each major consumer credit reporting agency and requires each major consumer credit reporting agency to provide the consumer a credit score along with the consumer's credit report for a reasonable fee as determined by the FTC. In addition, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and state laws give consumers other rights with respect to the protection of their credit files at the credit reporting agencies. For example, the Fair Credit Reporting Act gives consumers the right to place \"fraud alerts\" at the credit reporting agencies, and the laws in approximately 40 states give consumers the right to place \"freezes\" to block access to their credit files. The rights of consumers to. 8. obtain free annual credit reports and credit scores from consumer reporting agencies, and to place fraud alerts and credit freezes directly with them, could cause consumers to perceive that the value of our services is reduced or replaced by those benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We remain dependent on our historical financial institution clients to continue to service and bill a material portion of our subscribers.. We historically depended upon our agreements with a small number of financial institutions in the U.S. to derive a significant portion of our revenue. For example, in 2017 and 2016, we derived approximately 55% and 59%, respectively, of our Personal Information Services segment revenue from our agreements with U.S. financial institutions. Under these contracts, our right to continue to service subscribers after termination of a contract by a financial institution varies based on the specific contract terms. Under some contracts, we may continue to provide our services to the existing subscribers, and the financial institution must provide certain applicable services, for varying time periods. Under other contracts, the financial institution may require us at any time to cease providing services under existing subscriptions. Financial institutions under most contracts also may require us to cease providing services to their customers under existing subscriptions if the contract is terminated for material breach by us or based on various events such as certain legal or regulatory changes, a party's bankruptcy or insolvency, or other events. Even in contracts under which we have a right to continue to provide our services to existing subscribers after termination, we often are substantially dependent on those clients to cooperate in continued servicing, including continued billing by those clients. If those financial institutions do not perform their contractual obligations with respect to the servicing of existing subscribers, or otherwise do not cooperate in our continued servicing of those subscribers, or, where permitted under our contracts, they terminate our servicing of the subscribers, we could lose significant current sources of revenue, and those losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We could lose our access to data from any of the three major credit reporting agencies, each of which competes with us, which could cause demand for our services to decrease, affect our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely on the major credit reporting agencies, Equifax, Experian and TransUnion, in both the U.S. and Canada to provide us with essential credit-related data for our consumer identity theft protection services. The Experian and TransUnion contracts may be terminated by them on 30 days' and 60 days' notice, respectively, while the contract with Equifax expires in 2021. Each of the three major credit reporting agencies competes with us by providing credit information directly to consumers, and may decide to stop supplying data to us on a timely manner or at all, or to significantly increase the costs they charge us for their data. Any change, interruption, deterioration or termination of our relationship with one or more of the three credit reporting agencies would be disruptive to our business and could cause us to lose subscribers or incur increased expenses. We may not be successful in maintaining our relationships on the current terms with the three credit reporting agencies and may not be able to continue to obtain data from them on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain data from alternative or additional sources if our current sources become unavailable or too costly.. Our failure to protect personal data could cause us to expend capital and resources to protect against future security breaches or other unauthorized access, result in litigation costs, liability and damage to our reputation and business.. We collect, distribute and protect nonpublic and sensitive personal data in delivering our services. We are subject to the risk that unauthorized users might access that data, technical issues might release or expose that data to unauthorized users or human error might cause the wrongful dissemination of that data. If we experience a security breach or other unauthorized access to information, the integrity of our services may be affected. We continue to incur significant costs to protect against security breaches or other mishaps and to minimize the adverse effects of a data breach, were one to occur. Moreover, any public perception that we mishandle personal information could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain clients and subscribers, or maintain key supplier relationships, and could subject us to legal claims and liability and damage to our reputation. In addition, unauthorized third parties might alter information in our databases, which could adversely affect both our ability to market our services and the credibility of our information.. Our business is dependent on the secure operation of our websites, mobile apps, working environments, storage, security and other data systems as well as the operation of the Internet generally. Our business involves the storage and transmission of users' personal information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. Like many companies, we are the target of frequent and repeated cyber-attacks of varying levels of sophistication. Many companies regularly disclose security breaches, some of which have involved intentional attacks. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. Attacks may be targeted at us, our clients, our suppliers or others. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, client, customer and/or supplier perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose clients, customers and/or suppliers. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third party experts and consultants.. 9. If our security measures are circumvented, our personal information or that of our subscribers could be misappropriated, causing interruption in our operations, damaging our information systems or those of our users, or otherwise damaging our reputation and business. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business.. We rely on various technologies, including without limitation encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including without limitation customer payment card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to fail to protect personal data from being breached or compromised. Data breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues.. Under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors and clients, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments or pay our fees. If we were unable to accept payment cards, our business would be seriously damaged.. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, including \"denial-of-service\" type attacks. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Security breaches, including any breach suffered by us or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships, that result in the unauthorized release of our users' personal information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability.. Many states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. Federal and state laws in the U.S. provide for more than 45 regulatory and notification regimes, all of which we are subject to, and additional requirements may be instituted in the future. In the event of a data security breach, these mandatory disclosures often lead to widespread negative publicity. In addition, complying with such numerous and complex regulations in the event of a data security breach is often expensive, difficult and time consuming, and the failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and additional liability and harm our reputation.. Any actual or perceived security breach, whether successful or not and whether or not attributable to the failure of our services or our information technology systems, as well as our failure to promptly and appropriately react to a breach, would likely harm our reputation, adversely affect market perception of our services, and cause the loss of customers and strategic partners. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses or failures that may occur. Our third-party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention.. We recognized impairment charges in the past and may be required to recognize impairment charges in the future that could materially affect our financial results.. We recorded one-time intangible and other asset impairment charges of $8.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to the cessation of operations in our Pet Health Monitoring business. Additionally, we assess our goodwill and other intangible assets as well as our other long-lived assets as and when required by U.S. GAAP to determine whether they are impaired and, if they are, we record appropriate impairment charges. We had no goodwill impairment charges in 2017 or 2016, but it is possible that we may be required to record additional significant impairment charges in the future and, if we do so, our operating income could be materially adversely affected.. The New Credit Agreement provides our lenders with a first-priority lien against substantially all of our assets and contains certain restrictions on our ability to take certain actions. We cannot provide assurance that we will maintain compliance with the financial and other restrictive covenants under the New Credit Agreement.. We are subject to a number of financial and other restrictive covenants under the New Credit Agreement. These covenants include restrictions that prohibit or otherwise limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase stock, incur additional indebtedness, make certain investments and other payments, enter into acquisitions, encumber or dispose of assets or engage in certain other types of transactions, and also require that we maintain certain minimum cash balances, financial ratios and EBITDA levels (as defined in the New Credit Agreement and adjusted for certain non-cash, non-recurring and other items) during specified periods. Failure to comply with any of the covenants under the New Credit Agreement could result in a default under the facility, which could cause the lenders to declare all obligations immediately due and payable and exercise their lien on substantially all of our assets. We cannot provide assurance that we will maintain compliance with such covenants for future periods, or, if necessary, be able to amend the financial or restrictive covenants contained therein or enter into new credit arrangements to maintain liquidity in the future. We have taken and may continue to take actions including, but not limited to, delaying or forgoing capital investments, reducing marketing or other expenditures compared to current plans, and/or renegotiating or seeking a waiver or amendment of the terms of the New Credit Agreement as means of maintaining compliance with these covenants.. 10. We are substantially dependent on third party suppliers and service providers, and our clients and their service providers, to market and provide our products, and failures by those third parties or our clients could harm our business and prospects.. Our consumer products and services are substantially dependent on third party suppliers, including providers of credit and other data, analytics, and software and other technology, including without limitation, our relationship with IBM under which we utilize its Watson\231 technology and trademarks in some of our products and services. Our failure to develop and maintain these third party relationships could harm our ability to provide our products and services. We also rely on various third party service providers, including outsourced telemarketing vendors, customer service providers, network and systems hosts and other providers. In some arrangements we rely on our clients or their service providers, including the marketing of products, billing of subscribers and customer service.. Failure of any of our third party suppliers or service providers, or our clients or their service providers, to satisfy our contracts or requirements, or to comply with applicable laws and regulations, could cause us to lose subscribers or clients, expose us to private lawsuits or governmental investigations or proceedings, cause us to be liable for damages and fines, or harm our reputation. Any such event could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We could be unable to meet our future capital requirements to grow our business, which could adversely impact our financial condition and growth strategy.. In November 2017, we amended our existing credit agreement in which we received additional operating funds at a higher borrowing rate. We could need to continue to raise additional funds in the future in order to operate and expand our business. Our ability to meet our future capital requirements and grow our business by investing in and marketing our products and services could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to maintain compliance with the covenants under the New Credit Agreement or otherwise obtain financing in the future. There can be no assurances that additional funds will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate one or more of our product development programs or any future commercialization efforts. Our inability to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. A failure of any of the insurance companies that underwrite the insurance products or related benefits provided as part of our insurance services, or refusal by those insurance companies to provide the expected insurance, could harm our business.. Certain of our insurance services include or depend on insurance products, or are dependent on group insurance policies under which the customers for our services are the insureds. Adverse conditions in the economy could cause financial instability among one or more of those insurance companies. The failure of any of those insurance companies, or refusal by them to provide the expected insurance, could require us to remove the affected insurance from our services, cause us to lose customers or clients, or expose us to liability claims by our customers or clients.. If we experience system failures or interruptions in our telecommunications or information technology infrastructure, our revenue could decrease and our reputation could be harmed.. Our operations depend upon our ability to protect our telecommunications and information technology systems against damage or system interruptions from natural disasters, technical failures and other events beyond our control. We receive credit and other data electronically, and this delivery method is susceptible to damage, delay or inaccuracy. A significant portion of our business involves telephonic customer service as well as mailings, both of which depend upon the data generated from our computer systems. Unanticipated problems with our telecommunications and information technology systems may result in a significant system outage or data loss, which could interrupt our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business, including the loss of revenue, clients or customers or exposure to liability claims.. We may launch products and services in fields and markets that are new to us, and may be exposed to new risks that could impede the success of our efforts or result in unforeseen liabilities or expenses.. We are exploring or developing other new products and services, including new privacy products, which also may involve new risks. If we are unable to manage these new risks, our efforts to develop and launch new products and services may not be successful, or we may incur unforeseen liabilities or expenses, including product liability, regulatory violation, data or privacy breaches, intellectual property infringement or contract claims, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. We depend on key members of our management and other key personnel.. We depend on key members of our management. We do not maintain key person life insurance on our senior management. Loss of one or more of these key individuals, particularly our Executive Chairman or our other executive officers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract, retain and motivate. 11. skilled managerial, marketing and other personnel, and a failure to attract and retain those personnel may have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry-forwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited, which could potentially result in increased tax liabilities for us in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $10.6 million of a federal net operating loss carry-forward. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three year period), the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carry-forwards and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change taxable income may be limited. Due to the nature of our closely-held stockholders, we have not performed an analysis to determine if there were any prior year ownership changes, which would limit our ability to utilize the federal net operating loss carry-forward. If we earn net taxable income in future years, our ability to use our net operating loss carry-forward to offset taxable income will be subject to our future analysis of ownership changes and, as a result, may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us.. The recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017 may materially impact our future operating results and tax accounting policies.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act may have future implications to our financial reporting which, due to the varying assessment date provisions, may be materially different than what is completely reflected or disclosed in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. Changes to certain limitations and deductible provisions may have a favorable or unfavorable impact on future operating results and cash taxes including, but not limited to, repeal of the corporate alternative minimum tax, change to covered employees under Section 162(m), limitations on the deduction of interest expense from debt financing and expensing of qualifying depreciable assets. Ongoing analysis of the income tax reform may potentially impact our business, financial conditions and results of operations in one or more future periods.. Our Canadian business exposes us to operational, economic and currency risks.. Our Canadian operations represented approximately 8% and 7% of our consolidated revenue in 2017 and 2016, respectively, and a component of our strategy includes expanding and adding to our marketing partner relationships in Canada as well as adding Identity Guard® with Watson\231 as a premier product offering. Our ability to successfully conduct business in Canada is affected by many of the same risks we face in our U.S. operations, as well as unique costs and difficulties of managing businesses in Canada. Transacting business with Canadian partners and vendors has made us subject to Canadian economic conditions, particularly currency exchange rate fluctuations, increased regulations, quotas, tariffs, and political factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations as our business in Canada continues to expand. Further, we may be exposed to new forms of competition not present in our domestic markets, as well as subject to potentially different demographic tastes and preferences for our products.. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions or investments that are accretive or which improve our financial condition.. A component of our strategy may include selectively acquiring assets or businesses or making strategic investments in order to increase cash flow and earnings or diversify or expand our product offerings. This depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify acceptable acquisition or investment candidates, consummate transactions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to support our growth and expansion, and many other factors beyond our control. We may encounter delays or other problems or incur substantial expenses in connection with seeking acquisitions that could negatively impact our operating results. In connection with any acquisitions or investments, we could issue stock that would dilute our stockholders, incur substantial debt, assume known, contingent and unknown liabilities and/or reduce our cash reserves. In addition, legal or regulatory requirements, availability of financing or other factors may prevent us from consummating acquisitions of membership agreements or customer portfolios offered by our clients, which may have an adverse impact on our relationships with those clients or our continued receipt of revenue from those portfolios or agreements. Acquisitions may also require material infrequent charges and could result in adverse tax consequences, impairment of goodwill, substantial depreciation and amortization, increased interest expense, deferred compensation charges, and the amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and identifiable purchased intangible assets, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations in one or more future periods.. We may not realize planned benefits from any acquisitions.. From time to time we review opportunities for acquisitions of other businesses or material assets that would expand our business or otherwise offer growth opportunities to us. In connection with our acquisitions, we may experience unforeseen difficulties, expenses and delays as we attempt to integrate the acquired assets and businesses into our existing operations. These difficulties may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Any acquisition or investments by us involves risks, including:. 12. • unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of the acquired operations;. • difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of the acquired businesses with those of our existing operations;. • challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations;. • establishing the internal controls and procedures that we are required to maintain under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and. • mitigating contingent or assumed liabilities or unexpected costs.. Competition could reduce our market share or decrease our revenue.. We operate in a highly competitive business market. Our competitors may provide products and services comparable or superior to those provided by us, or at lower prices, adapt more quickly to evolving industry trends or changing market requirements, increase their emphasis on products and services similar to ours, enter the markets in which we operate or introduce competing products and services. Any of these factors could reduce our market share or decrease our revenue. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. Several of our competitors offer products and services that are similar to, or that directly compete with, our products and services. Competition for new subscribers for our products and services is also intense. We also compete directly with the credit reporting agencies that control the credit file data that we use to provide our services. One or more of these credit reporting agencies may not make available to us or our customers the same features that they may offer in direct competition with us.. Our inability to develop and offer services that are attractive to the growing number of consumers who utilize wireless devices other than personal computers to access online services could adversely affect our business.. The number of people who access services through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, smart phones, handheld computers, tablets, and other mobile devices, has increased dramatically in recent years and is projected to continue to increase. The services we develop for users of these alternative devices may not be attractive to users. Despite the expected growth in mobile devices, there is no guarantee that we will be able to effectively monetize our mobile applications and generate meaningful revenue in the future. If our mobile applications are not widely adopted or sufficiently profitable, or if we fail to continue to innovate and introduce enhanced mobile applications and other services for users of these alternative devices, our business could be adversely affected.. As new devices, platforms, and technologies are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our services for use with those devices, platforms, and technologies, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such offerings. We are dependent on the interoperability of our mobile applications with popular mobile operating systems that we do not control, such as Android and iOS, and any changes in such systems that degrade our applications' functionality or give preferential treatment to competitive products could adversely affect usage of our mobile applications. Additionally, if we are slow to develop new services and technologies that are compatible with these devices, platforms, and technologies, or if our competitors are able to achieve those results more quickly than us, we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for online services, which could adversely affect our business.. Our growth depends upon developing and successfully introducing new products and services that generate client and consumer interest, including new data sources, advanced tools and analytical capabilities, more timely notification of activities and more useable content. Since late 2016, we continue to unveil our new Identity Guard® with Watson\231 product to various marketing channels and partners. We have made, and may make, significant investments in new products and services, including development costs and prepayment of royalties and fees to third party providers. Our failure to develop, introduce or expand successfully our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. Events such as a security breach at one of our partners that result in a significant number of our members' personally identifiable information being compromised or that otherwise interfaces with our systems could result in a large number of identity-related events that in turn could severely strain our operations and have a negative impact on our business.. Events such as a security breach at a large organization (including major financial institutions, retailers, and Internet service providers) could compromise the personally identifiable information of a significant number of our consumers. Any such event could in turn result in a large number of identity-related events that we must address, placing severe strain on our operations. Any failure in our ability to appropriately and timely process and address a large number of identity-related events taking place at the same time could result in a loss of members, harm to our reputation, and other damage to our business. Moreover, any related remediation services we provide may not meet member expectations and further exacerbate these risks. Furthermore, if these events result in significant claims made under our identity theft insurance, this could negatively impact our insurance premiums and our ability to continue to provide what we refer to as our guarantee on a cost-effective basis, or at all.. 13. If the material weaknesses identified in our internal control over financial reporting persist or if we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected.. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017, our management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with that assessment, a material weakness was identified in our internal controls over accounting for share based compensation, and a material weakness was identified in our internal controls over accounting for revenue recognition. Exchange Act Rule 12b-2 and Rule 1-02(b) of Regulation S-X define a material weakness as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. The identified material weaknesses are further described in Part II, Item 9A of this report.. Our remediation efforts regarding these material weaknesses are also described in Part II, Item 9A of this report. While we are confident that that our remediation plans will remediate the identified material weaknesses, it is possible that our remedial measures may not be sufficient or may take longer than anticipated. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses on a timely basis, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. Even after the identified material weaknesses have been remediated, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our shares of common stock may decline.. Risks Related to Government Regulation. Changes in legislation or regulations governing consumer privacy and other consumer protection aspects may affect our ability to collect, distribute, and use personally identifiable information.. There has been increasing public concern about the use of personally identifiable information and vulnerability of security practices intended to protect it. As a result, many federal, state, and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, disclosure, protection and use of personally identifiable information. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that apply to us. Because the interpretation and application of privacy, data protection and other consumer protection laws are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our services. If this is the case, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits, and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our service offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to retain our customers and partners. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy, data protection or other consumer protection laws, regulations, and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, affect our ability to attract new customers and maintain relationships with our existing customers, and adversely affect our business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations, and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our enterprise customers and strategic partners may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our services. Privacy concerns, whether valid or not, may inhibit market adoption of our services.. Our Personal Information Services segment and Insurance and Other Consumer Services segments are subject to a wide range of U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our Personal Information Services and Insurance and Other Consumer Services segments are subject to a wide variety of U.S. federal and state laws and regulations. Our business in Canada is subject to similar laws. For additional information on the laws and regulations that may have an effect on our business, see \"Business - Government Regulation\" above.. Many of the laws in the U.S. and Canada that apply to us or our clients are or may become the subject of revision and addition, the issuance of rules, regulations, guidance and interpretations by government agencies, and rulings and interpretations by courts and other tribunals. We incur significant costs to operate our business in compliance with these laws and regulations, and to make changes to our business as needed to comply with legal and regulatory changes. We have made and may continue to make changes to our business and operations as a result of changes with respect to these laws or regulations. These changes have increased our costs and reduced our revenue, and we may make further changes that have such effect. Further, scrutiny of the sales, marketing and administration of add-on products by financial institution and financial product regulators has resulted in the termination of almost all marketing of our products by financial institutions and cancellation of certain subscribers. The effect of this combination of laws, regulations, reviews and proceedings is difficult to estimate, and any or a combination of them, or changes to them, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 14. We and our clients are subject to legal actions and proceedings, including consumer class action litigation and government agency investigations and enforcement actions, which could require us to incur substantial expenses, pay damages, fines and penalties, lose subscribers and clients, and change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Because we operate in highly regulated industries and must comply with various foreign, federal, state and local laws, we may be subject to claims and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. These legal actions may include private class action lawsuits, and investigations and enforcement actions by governmental authorities. We cannot predict the outcome of any actions or proceedings, and the cost of responding to investigations or claims and defending against private actions, investigations or government enforcement actions might be material. If we are found liable in any actions or proceedings, or are required to indemnify our clients or others for their expenses or liability, we may have to pay substantial damages, fines and penalties, lose subscribers or clients, suffer harm to our reputation, and be required change the way we conduct our business, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as a result of these investigations, proceedings or actions, or other regulatory oversight, our financial institution clients have taken, and we may take, remedial actions including the issuing of refunds and/or cancellation of subscriptions, and our clients may seek indemnification or contribution from us relating to those remedial actions, which could require us to incur substantial expenses, pay damages, fines and penalties, lose subscribers and clients, and change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flow.. We believe that the CFPB, along with other federal agencies including the OCC, are continuing to review policies and practices of financial institutions and their service providers with respect to add-on or ancillary products. The CFPB, OCC and FDIC have entered into public consent orders with Bank of America and several other financial institutions with respect to such products, including in some cases our identity theft protection products. Under these consent orders, financial institutions have agreed, among other things, to make restitution of fees collected from their customers, take other remedial actions, and cease marketing of the applicable products until their compliance plans are approved by regulators, and pay penalties. We cannot predict whether these governmental reviews of products marketed through financial institutions will continue, or whether they may include reviews by state government agencies. One or more financial institutions may seek indemnification from us, and we or the financial institutions may be subject to enforcement proceedings or private class actions. We may receive requests for information directly from federal or state agencies. We provided information to the CFPB in response to the previously reported Civil Investigative Demand regarding the provision of \"ancillary products related to credit card or deposit accounts\" and a subsequent request for voluntary production of information received in January 2014. In July 2015, a consent order with the CFPB was entered in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. We agreed to make various changes to our disclosures and business practices. We also agreed under the consent order to be subject to certain ongoing injunctive relief and other compliance requirements, which we do not believe substantially changes our existing practices or business but may result in us incurring additional costs associated with compliance or redress. Based on the entry of the consent order, we paid the total penalty amount of $1.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2015, and in February 2016 we paid the remaining $63 thousand of refunds to 661 subscribers.. We may continue to incur material costs as a result of any other regulatory review and scrutiny, or class action litigation, which could reduce the operating results of our Personal Information Services or Insurance and Other Consumer Services segments and our cash flows provided by operations. Any finding that we have violated a law or regulation or our consent order with the CFPB, filing of an enforcement action or class action litigation against us, or entry by us into a consent order or settlement may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition.. Judicial decisions, CFPB rule-making or amendments to the Federal Arbitration Act could render the arbitration agreements the Company uses illegal or unenforceable.. The Company includes arbitration provisions in its consumer agreements and terms of use. These provisions are designed to allow the Company to resolve any customer disputes through individual arbitration rather than in court and explicitly provide that all arbitrations will be conducted on an individual and not on a class basis. Thus, the Company's arbitration agreements, if enforced, have the effect of shielding the Company from class action liability. The Company's arbitration agreements do not generally have any impact on regulatory enforcement proceedings. The Company takes the position that the arbitration provisions in its consumer agreements and terms of use, including class action waivers, are valid and enforceable; however, the enforceability of arbitration provisions is often challenged in court. If those challenges are successful, the Company's arbitration and class action waiver provisions could be unenforceable, which could subject the Company to additional litigation, including additional class action litigation. In addition, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would generally limit or prohibit mandatory arbitration agreements in consumer contracts. Any judicial decisions, legislation or other rules or regulations that impair the Company's ability to enter into and enforce consumer arbitration agreements and class action waivers could significantly increase the Company's exposure to class action litigation as well as litigation in plaintiff-friendly jurisdictions, which would be costly and could have a material adverse effect.. 15. Liabilities we establish or charges we incur for private or governmental legal proceedings may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.. We periodically analyze currently available information about current legal proceedings and make a determination of the probability of loss and provide a range of possible loss when we believe that sufficient and appropriate information is available. We accrue a liability for those contingencies where the incurrence of a loss is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If a loss is probable and a range of amounts can be reasonably estimated but no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount in the range, then the minimum of the range is accrued. We do not accrue a liability when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is believed to be probable but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated or when the likelihood that a liability has been incurred is believed to be only reasonably possible or remote. For contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and the impact could potentially be material, we disclose the nature of the contingency and, where feasible, an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss.. We may determine in the future that we must establish a reserve or incur a charge for all or a portion of our legal proceedings for which we did not previously establish a reserve or take a charge. We also may determine that we are required to increase a reserve if we determine that the reserve we previously established was inadequate, or record an additional charge if we incur liabilities in excess of liabilities that we have previously recorded. Such charges or liabilities could be significant and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.. We may be subject to assertions that taxes must be collected based on sales and use of our services in various states, which could expose us to liability and cause material harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Currently, our products and services are subject to sales and use taxes in certain states to which we are currently compliant, and taxability is generally determined by statutory state laws and regulations, as well as an assessment of nexus. Whether sales of our services are subject to additional states' sales and use taxes is uncertain, due in part to the unique nature of our services and the relationships through which our services are offered, as well as changing state laws and interpretations of those laws. One or more additional states may seek to impose sales or use tax or other tax collection obligations on us, whether based on sales by us or our resellers or clients, including for past sales. A successful assertion that we should be collecting sales or other related taxes on our services could result in substantial audit defense fees and tax liabilities for past sales, discourage clients from offering or billing for our services, or otherwise cause material harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There are several applicable and potential governmental regulatory matters being considered by the U.S. Supreme Court, Congress and a number of U.S. states that may impact us by requiring remote online sellers to collect sales tax on their revenue. For example, the U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear during the current spring term the appeal from the South Dakota Supreme Court of the matter of South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. This case is expected to directly revisit the 25-year-old \"doctrine\" previously established by the Supreme Court in Quill Corp. v. North Dakota, which requires a minimum physical presence within a state in order to permit the state to impose sales tax on revenue derived within that state. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that these and other attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on online sales may have on our business. Any new or revised taxes would likely increase our cost of doing business online and could reduce demand for our services and create additional administrative and compliance burdens, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our current or future products and services, including our Identity Guard® and Identity Guard® with Watson\231 products, are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market.. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property, including our Identity Guard® and Identity Guard® with Watson\231 products. We rely upon a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret protection, confidentiality and license agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our current products and services. However, these measures afford only limited protection and might be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective, and in some instances we have not undertaken comprehensive searches with respect to certain of our intellectual property. We have limited protections in countries outside the U.S., such as registrations for key trademarks. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop similar intellectual property.. Our patents may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around our patents. If the breadth or strength of protection provided by the patents we own, license or pursue with respect to any of our current or future products and services is threatened, it could threaten our ability to commercialize any of our current or future products and services.. We also rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and any other elements of our product development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents. Although we require all of our employees to assign their inventions to us, and endeavor to execute confidentiality agreements with all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any. 16. third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology, we cannot be certain that we have executed such agreements with all parties who may have helped to develop our intellectual property or had access to our proprietary information, nor that our agreements will not be breached. We cannot guarantee that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. If we are unable to prevent material disclosure of the intellectual property related to our technologies to third parties, we will not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market.. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies.. Companies in the Internet, technology, data management, wireless communications, wearable technology and other industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. The technologies we own or license from others may not be able to withstand challenge by the owners of any third-party claims or rights. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, and expensive to litigate or settle, and could divert management resources and attention. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our products and services to others and may require that we procure substitute products or services for these customers and clients and could require us to pay damages, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. With respect to any intellectual property rights claim, we may have to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party's rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms and may significantly increase our operating expenses. The technology also may not be available for license to us at all. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for the infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our product and service offerings and may be unable to compete effectively.. We have received confidential and proprietary information from third parties. In addition, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other technology companies. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise improperly used or disclosed confidential information of these third parties or our employees' former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial cost and be a distraction to our management and employees.. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our licensors that are licensed to us. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, if we or one of our future collaborators were to initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering our current products and services, or one of our future products or services, the defendant could counterclaim that our patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the U.S., defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity and/or unenforceability are commonplace. Grounds for a validity challenge could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, obviousness or non-enablement. Grounds for an unenforceability assertion could be an allegation that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant information from the U.S. PTO, or made a materially misleading statement, during prosecution. Third parties may also raise similar claims before the U.S. PTO, even outside the context of litigation. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. With respect to the validity question, for example, we cannot be certain that there is no invalidating prior art, of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection on our current or future product candidates. Such a loss of patent protection could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be unsuccessful, it could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Finally, we may not be able to prevent, alone or with the support of our licensors, misappropriation of our trade secrets or confidential information, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the U.S.. 17. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents, trademarks and copyrights on products throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent, trademark or copyright protection to develop their own products and, further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent, trademark or copyright protection, but where enforcement is not as strong as that in the U.S. These products may compete with our products in jurisdictions where we do not have any issued or licensed patents, trademarks or copyrights and our intellectual property claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from so competing.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biopharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price is volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly over a short period of time.. The trading price of our common stock is volatile. In the past, our stock price has declined in response to period-to-period fluctuations in our revenue, expenses and operating results. In certain periods where our operating results have been below historical amounts, the price of our common stock decreased significantly following earnings announcements. In addition, our stock price may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • the timing and rate of subscription cancellations and additions;. • the decrease in our revenue and subscriber base in 2017 and the possible continued reduction in either or both in 2018;. • our continued losses from continuing operations;. • the loss of a key client or a change by a key client in the servicing of our products and services;. • enforcement actions or other proceedings against us or our client;. • our ability to introduce new and improve existing products and services on a timely basis;. • the success of competing products and services by our competitors;. • the demand for consumer subscription services generally;. • amount and frequency of future dividend payments and share repurchases, if any;. • our ability to generate and maintain cash flows provided by operations, including our ability to secure any additional debt or equity financing;. • the ability of third parties to support our services; and. • general economic conditions.. We do not expect to declare or pay dividends for the foreseeable future.. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since the first quarter of 2014. Because we currently intend to retain all cash we generate to fund the growth of our business and the New Credit Agreement currently prohibits us from declaring and paying ordinary cash dividends, we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. As a result, if we do not declare or pay dividends you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. Insiders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, which may harm the market price of our common stock.. Loeb Holding Corp., which is controlled by one of our directors, owns approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock, and Michael R. Stanfield, our Executive Chairman and President, owns approximately 7% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our other executive officers and other directors collectively own significant shares of our outstanding common stock, and these insiders may acquire additional shares of common stock or other securities in the future. These stockholders may have interests that conflict with the other public stockholders. If these stockholders act together, they could have the ability to significantly influence or control the management and affairs of our company and potentially determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any sale of the Company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by delaying, discouraging or preventing a change in control transaction.. 18. If we sell shares of our common stock or derivative securities in future financings, stockholders may experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may decline.. We may from time to time issue additional shares of common stock or derivative securities, including at a discount from the current trading price of our common stock. As a result, our stockholders could experience immediate dilution upon the sale or issuance of any shares of our common stock at such discount. In addition, as opportunities present themselves, we may enter into financing or similar arrangements in the future, including the issuance of debt securities, preferred stock, warrants or common stock. If we issue common stock or securities convertible, exchangeable or exercisable into common stock, our common stockholders would experience additional dilution and, as a result, our stock price may decline.. We are a smaller reporting company and are taking advantage of certain reduced governance and disclosure requirements, including that our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot be certain if the omission of reduced disclosure requirements applicable to smaller reporting companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. Currently, we are a \"smaller reporting company,\" meaning that our outstanding common stock held by nonaffiliates had a value of less than $75 million. As a smaller reporting company, we are not required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our auditors are not required to attest to the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. As a result, investors and others may become less comfortable with the effectiveness of the Company's internal controls and the risk that any material weaknesses or other deficiencies in internal controls go undetected may increase. In addition, as a smaller reporting company, we intend to take advantage of our ability to provide certain other less comprehensive disclosures in our SEC filings, including, among other things, providing only two years of audited financial statements in annual reports and simplified executive compensation disclosures. Consequently, it may be more challenging for investors to analyze our results of operations and financial prospects, as the information we provide to stockholders may be different from what you might receive from other public companies in which you hold shares."
