[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could have a materially adverse impact on our operations. The risks described below highlight some of the factors that have affected, and in the future could affect, our operations. You should carefully consider these risks. These risks are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or any combination of the foregoing could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related to our Business. We cannot predict with certainty the future evolution of the IT infrastructure market in which we compete, and may be unable to respond effectively or on a timely basis to rapid technological change.. The IT infrastructure market in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology and new industry standards and customer needs, as well as by frequent new product and service introductions. Innovative new IT technologies and evolving industry standards have the potential to become the \"new normal,\" either replacing or providing efficient, potentially lower-cost alternatives to more traditional IT communications services. The adoption of such new technologies or industry standards could render our existing services obsolete and unmarketable or require us to spend significant amounts of capital to adapt or adopt new technologies or industry standards.. 5. Our failure to anticipate new technology trends that may eventually become the preferred technology choice of our customers, to adapt our technology to any changes in the prevailing industry standards (or, conversely, for there to be an absence of generally accepted standards applicable to the industries we compete in) could materially and adversely affect our business. Our pursuit of and investment in necessary technological advances may require substantial time and expense, but may not guarantee that we can successfully adapt our network and services to alternative access devices and technologies. Technological advances in computer processing, hardware, storage, capacity, component size, cloud computing solutions or power management could result in a decreased demand for our data center and hosting services. Likewise, if the Internet backbone becomes subject to a form of central management or gatekeeping control, or if internet service providers (\"ISPs\") establish an economic settlement arrangement regarding the exchange of traffic between Internet networks that is passed on to Internet users, the demand for our services could be materially and adversely affected.. If we are unable to develop new and enhanced services and products that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to improve the performance and features of our existing services and products or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. The markets in which we compete are constantly evolving. The process of expending research and development funds to create new services and products, and the technologies that support them, is expensive, time and labor intensive and uncertain. We may not understand or accurately assess the market demand for new services and products or not be able to fix technical problems with new services and products. The demand for top research and development and technical talent is high, and there is significant competition for these scarce resources.. Our future success may depend on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by expending research and development funds in an efficient manner to acquire talent and to develop and introduce new services, products and upgrades on a timely basis. New product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges, including:. • developing or expanding efficient sales channels;. • sourcing, identifying, obtaining and managing qualified research and development and technical staff with the appropriate skill and expertise;. • managing the length and roll out of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements;. • identifying and adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors' and customers' services and products;. • entering into new or unproven markets where we have limited experience or there is significant competition;. • developing and managing new service and product service strategies and integrating them with our existing services and products;. • incorporating acquired products, technologies and personnel;. • trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship new products to international markets; and. • obtaining required technology licenses and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products.. In addition, if we cannot innovate our products or adapt our business models to keep pace with industry trends, our revenue could be negatively impacted. If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new services, products and upgrades are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, we may experience a material decrease in our revenues and earnings.. Failure to retain existing customers or attract new customers will cause our revenue to decline.. In addition to adding new customers, we must sell additional services to existing customers and encourage them to increase their usage levels to increase our revenue. If our existing and prospective customers do not perceive our services to be of sufficiently high value and quality or do not provide the proper technological solutions or industry standard services, we may not be able to retain our current customers or attract new ones. Our customers have no obligation to renew their agreements for our services after the expiration of their initial commitment, and these agreements may not be renewed at the same price or level of service, if at all. Due to the upfront costs of implementing IT infrastructure services, if our customers do not renew or cancel their agreements, we may not be able to recover the initial costs associated with bringing additional IT infrastructure on-line.. Our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including:. • their level of satisfaction with our services;. • our ability to provide features and functionality demanded by our customers;. • the prices of our services compared to our competitors;. 6. • technological advances that allow customers to meet their needs with fewer infrastructure resources;. • mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base; which include a significant number of technology customers that are potentially attractive acquisition targets; and. • reduction in our customers' spending levels or economic decline in our customer's markets.. If our customers do not renew their agreements with us or if they renew on less favorable terms, than existing agreements our revenue would decline and our business may suffer. Similarly, our customer agreements may provide for minimum commitments that may be significantly below our customers' historical usage levels. Consequently, these customers could significantly curtail their usage without incurring any incremental fees under our agreements. In this event, our revenue would be lower than expected and our operating results could suffer.. Our capital investment strategy for data center and IT infrastructure services expansion may contain erroneous assumptions causing our return on invested capital to be materially lower than expected and could materially impact our results of operations.. Our strategic decision to invest capital in expanding our data center and IT infrastructure services is based on, among other things, significant assumptions related to expected growth of these markets, our IT solutions program, our competitors' perceived or actual plans and current and expected server utilization and data center occupancy rates.  Adding data center space involves capital outlays well ahead of planned usage. Although we believe we can accurately project future space needs in particular markets, these plans require significant estimates and assumptions based on available market data. We have no way of ensuring the data or models we use to deploy capital into existing markets, or to create new markets, has been or will be accurate, particularly as technology and industry standards evolve. Errors or imprecision in these estimates, especially those related to our cost of capital, customer demand or our competitors' plans, could cause actual results to differ materially from our expected results and could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may experience difficulties in executing our capital investment strategy to expand our IT infrastructure services, upgrade existing facilities or establish new facilities, products, services or capabilities.. As part of our strategy, we may continue to expand our IT infrastructure services and may encounter challenges and difficulties in implementing our expansion plans. This could cause us to grow at a slower rate than projected in our capital investment modeling. These challenges and difficulties relate to our ability to:. • identify and obtain the use of locations meeting our selection criteria on competitive terms, if at all;. • estimate costs and control delays for our services;. • obtain necessary permits on a timely basis, if at all;. • generate sufficient cash flow from operations or through current or additional debt or equity financings to support these expansion plans;. • establish key relationships with IT infrastructure providers and other third party vendors required to deliver our services;. • obtain the necessary power density and supply from local utility companies at competitive rates;. • hire, train, retain and manage sufficient operational and technical employees and supporting personnel;. • avoid labor issues impacting our suppliers, such as a strike; and. • identify and obtain contractors that perform on the agreed upon contract performance.. If we encounter greater than anticipated difficulties in implementing our expansion plans, are unable to deploy new IT infrastructure services or do not adequately control expenses associated with the deployment of new IT infrastructure services, it may be necessary to take additional remedial actions, which could divert management's attention and strain our operational and financial resources. We may not successfully address any or all of these challenges, and our failure to do so would adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Pricing pressure may continue to decrease our revenue for certain services.. Pricing for Internet connectivity, data transit and data storage services has declined in recent years and may continue to decline, which would continue to impact our business. By bundling their services and reducing the overall cost of their service offerings, certain of our competitors may be able to provide customers with reduced costs for their Internet connectivity, data transit and data storage services or private network services, thereby significantly increasing the pressure on us to decrease our prices, whether unbundled or bundled. Increased price competition, price deflation and other related competitive pressures have eroded, and could continue to erode, our revenue and margins and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to control or reduce our costs. Because we rely on ISPs to deliver our services and have agreed with some of these providers to purchase minimum amounts of service at. 7. predetermined prices, our profitability could be adversely affected by competitive price reductions offered to our customers even if accompanied with an increased number of customers.. Many of our competitors for cloud services have substantially greater financial resources and may also adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the promotion, marketing and sales of their services. Such competitive actions could cause us to lower prices for certain products or services to remain competitive in the market. In addition, we have seen and may continue to see increased competition for colocation services from wholesale data center providers, such as services from large real estate companies. Rather than leasing available space to large single tenants, wholesale data center providers may decide to convert the space instead to smaller units designed for retail colocation use. As a result of such competition, we could suffer from downward pricing pressure and the loss of customers, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The market in which we operate is highly competitive and has experienced recent consolidation which may continue, and we may lack the financial and other resources, expertise, scale or capability necessary to capture increased market share or maintain our market share.. We compete in a rapidly evolving, highly competitive market which has been, and is likely to continue to be, characterized by overcapacity, industry consolidation and continued pricing pressure. In addition, our competitors may acquire  software-application vendors, technology providers or other service providers, or develop products similar, enabling them to more effectively compete with us. We believe that participants in this market must grow rapidly and achieve a significant presence to compete effectively, particularly as fixed costs increase for industry participants. This consolidation could affect prices and other competitive factors in ways that would impede our ability to compete successfully in the IT infrastructure market. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and market resources, greater name recognition and more established relationships in the industry and may be able to:. • develop and expand their IT infrastructure and service offerings more rapidly;. • adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements more quickly;. • take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily;. • borrow at more competitive rates or otherwise take advantage of capital resources not available to us;. • attract or retain more qualified personnel to develop and market their service offerings; or. • devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their services and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can.. In addition, IT infrastructure providers may make technological advancements to enhance the quality of their services, which could negatively impact the demand for our IT infrastructure services. We also expect that we will face additional competition as we expand our product offerings, including competition from technology and telecommunications companies and non-technology companies which are entering the market through leveraging their existing or expanded network services and cloud infrastructure. Further, the ability of some of these potential competitors to bundle other services and products with their network services could place us at a competitive disadvantage. Various companies also are exploring the possibility of providing, or are currently providing, high-speed, intelligent data services that use connections to more than one network or use alternative delivery methods, including the cable television infrastructure, direct broadcast satellites and wireless local loops.. We may lack financial and other resources, expertise or capability necessary to maintain or capture increased market share. Increased competition and technological advancements by our competitors could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We have a long sales cycle for our IT infrastructure services and the implementation efforts required by customers to activate them can be substantial.. Many of our IT infrastructure services are complex and require substantial sales efforts and technical consultation to implement. A customer's decision to outsource some or all of its IT infrastructure typically involves a significant commitment of resources. Some customers may be reluctant to purchase our services due to their inability to accurately forecast future demand, delay in decision-making or inability to obtain necessary internal approvals to commit resources. We may expend time and resources pursuing a particular sale or customer that does not result in revenue. Delays due to the length of our sales cycle may harm our ability to meet our forecasts and materially and adversely affect our revenues and operating results.. We may fail to obtain or lose customers if they elect to develop or maintain some or all of their IT infrastructure services internally.. Our current and potential customers may decide to develop or maintain their own IT infrastructure rather than outsource to service providers like us. These in-house IT infrastructure services could be perceived to be superior or more cost effective compared to our services. If we fail to offer IT infrastructure services that compete favorably with in-sourced services or if we fail to differentiate or. 8. effectively market our IT infrastructure services, we may lose customers or fail to attract customers that may consider pursuing this in-sourced approach, and our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations would suffer as a result.. In addition, our customers' business models may change in ways that we do not anticipate and these changes could reduce or eliminate our customers' needs for our services. If this occurs, we could lose customers or potential customers, and our business and financial results would suffer. As a result of these or similar potential developments in the future, it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and operating results.. Finally, potential customers may be consolidated into larger companies that do not require our services because the larger company has IT solutions currently in place. If potential customers continue to consolidate, it may require us to seek an increasingly small number of potential customers, which could impact our margins and harm our revenue, gross margin and operating results.. If governments modify or increase regulation of the Internet, or goods or services necessary to operate the Internet or our IT infrastructure, our services could become more costly.. International bodies and federal, state and local governments have adopted a number of laws and regulations that affect the Internet and are likely to continue to seek to implement additional laws and regulations. In addition, federal and state agencies have adopted or are actively considering regulation of various aspects of the Internet and/or IP services, including taxation of transactions, enhanced data privacy and retention legislation and various energy regulations, as well as law enforcement surveillance and anti-terrorism initiatives targeting instant messaging applications. For example, if the Federal Communications Commission (the \"FCC\" or \"Commission\") were to impose federal Universal Service Fund requirements on a number of our managed hosting services such as virtual private network, dedicated IP and other enterprise customer services, that could raise our costs, and potentially require us to charge more for our services than we currently do and negatively impact our business. Additionally, we must comply with federal and state consumer protection laws. Finally, other potential laws and regulations targeted at goods or services that are cost inputs necessary to operate our managed service and colocation offerings could have a negative impact on us. These factors may impact the delivery of our services by driving up the cost of power, which is a significant cost of operating our data centers and other service points.. At the end of 2017, the FCC adopted a new Open Internet order that largely repealed the Open Internet rules the Commission had approved in 2015. The 2015 rules reclassified broadband Internet access as a \"telecommunications service,\" which subjected it to broad, \"common carrier\" regulation originally devised for telephone service. The 2015 order also established (among other things) \"bright line rules\" that prohibited an ISP from blocking, throttling (impairing or degrading lawful Internet traffic on the basis of content, applications or service), and paid prioritization or \"fast lanes,\" including for ISP affiliates.  It also included transparency requirements.. The 2017 order reclassified broadband Internet access back to being an \"information service,\" eliminating the common carrier regulation (including blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization) and the FCC's jurisdiction for imposing that type of regulation. Instead, broadband providers are subject only to a transparency requirement. The 2017 order is subject to appeal. If an appeal is successful, depending on the content of any judicial order, some or all of the 2015 restrictions may become applicable once again.  Proposals to impose Open Internet-style regulations are also pending in other governmental bodies, including the U.S. Congress and some states (which would have to overcome the 2017 order's preemption provisions). In light of these changes, challenges, and proposals, it is unclear what Open Internet regulations may exist in the future.. While we are not an ISP or a broadband Internet access provider, many of our customers have Internet businesses and rely on us for Web hosting, colocation of Web servers and routers and cloud services. If certain broadband access providers were to unreasonably interfere or disadvantage certain of our Internet edge provider customers by not allowing consumers to access them under comparable rates and service terms, then that could harm our business.. In another pending rulemaking, the FCC is proposing to regulate Internet-based video programming providers as multi-channel video programming distributors (\"MVPDs\") as it currently regulates established cable television providers and satellite providers. The FCC has tentatively concluded that the traditional definition of MVPD requiring ownership of the video transmission path should be expanded to include Internet-based video programmers. Though it is unclear if the FCC will ever issue the proposed rules, if it does so, this proceeding could directly impact the ability of a number of our customers to compete for video programming, and thereby impact the future use of  our services.. In addition, laws relating to the liability of private network operators and information carried on or disseminated through their networks are unsettled, both in the U.S. and abroad. The nature of any new laws and regulations and the interpretation of applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, national security, law enforcement, obscenity, libel, employment, personal privacy, consumer protection and other issues are uncertain and developing. We may become subject to legal claims such as defamation, invasion of privacy or copyright infringement in connection with content stored. 9. on or distributed through our network. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that future regulation or regulatory changes may have on our business.. If we fail to comply with privacy rules and regulations implemented by foreign governments and agencies, our business could be adversely affected and we could face claims for liabilities.. The EU prohibits companies from transferring EU residents' personal data from the EU to another country, unless the EU has deemed the laws of that country to provide \"adequate\" protection for personal data.  The EU does not consider U.S. data privacy laws to be adequate. Therefore, companies that want to transfer EU residents' personal data from the EU to the U.S. can do so only by using one of several available lawful data transfer mechanisms. For 15 years, one such lawful means was under the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Agreement (\"Safe Harbor Agreement\") between the European Commission and the U.S. Department of Commerce. The Safe Harbor Agreement provided a safe harbor for companies that transferred personal data from the EU to the U.S., as long as the receiving company in the U.S. abided by certain privacy principles. In October 2015, the European Court of Justice invalidated the Safe Harbor Agreement, requiring companies to rely on other lawful data transfer mechanisms when they transferred personal data from the EU to the U.S. After several months of negotiation, on July 12, 2016, the European Commission and the U.S. Department of Commerce adopted the E.U.-U.S. Privacy Shield (\"the Privacy Shield\"), which provides a new legal framework for the transfer of personal data of EU data subjects under EU law. Like the Safe Harbor Agreement, the Privacy Shield, among other things, requires companies in the U.S. that receive personal data from the EU to adhere to certain privacy principles. Companies that certify to the Privacy Shield, but fail to abide by its requirements, could be subject to enforcement actions by EU data protection authorities or the U.S. Federal Trade Commission.. Companies that are not certified under the Privacy Shield may rely on other lawful data transfer mechanisms, such as standard contract clauses or binding corporate rules (for intra-company cross-border data transfers). Companies that transfer personal data from the EU to the U.S. without an appropriate data transfer mechanism in place could be subject to enforcement actions by EU member state data protection authorities.. In addition to laws regulating the cross-border transfer of personal data, the EU General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which will go into effect on May 25, 2018 and become immediately applicable in EU member states, will impose a host of new requirements on all companies that offer goods and services to, or monitor the behavior of, EU residents. The GDPR will apply to companies that meet this description, regardless of whether such companies have physical operations in the EU.. In light of these developments, we are reviewing our business practices and may find it necessary or desirable to make changes to our policies and procedures governing our processing of EU residents' personal data, including the cross-border transfer of such data from the EU to the U.S. The regulation of data privacy in the EU continues to evolve, and it is not possible to predict the ultimate content, and therefore the effect, of data protection regulation over time.. Our actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable EU laws and regulations, or to protect personal data, could result in enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, which could result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, subject us to claims or other remedies and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may be liable for the material that content providers distribute over our network, and we may have to terminate customers that provide content that is determined to be illegal, which could adversely affect our operating results.. The law relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on, stored on, or disseminated through their networks is still unsettled in many jurisdictions. We have been and expect to continue to be subject to legal claims relating to the content disseminated on our network, including claims under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, other similar legislation and common law. In addition, there are other potential customer activities, such as online gambling and pornography, where we, in our role as a hosting provider, may be held liable as an aider or abettor of our customers. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, terminate customer relationships and the associated revenue or defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected.. If we fail to comply with telecommunications services regulations our business could be negatively affected.. One of our subsidiaries offers Metro Connect Ethernet data transmission services to customers colocated at our data centers to enable expanded connectivity. These are regulated telecommunications services, which require our subsidiary to obtain regulatory certifications and often to maintain an approved tariff in most states in which these services are offered. There are various regulatory compliance requirements to operate as a telecommunications carrier, such as the filing of tariffs, annual reports and universal service reports. We also must comply with state consumer protection laws in every state in which we operate. Failure to comply with any of these requirements could negatively impact our business.. 10. We depend on third-party suppliers for key elements of our IT infrastructure services and products. If we are unable to obtain these elements on a cost-effective basis, or at all, or if such services are interrupted, limited or terminated, our growth prospects and business operations may be adversely affected.. In delivering our services, we rely on a number of Internet networks, many of which are built and operated by third parties. To provide high performance connectivity services through our network access points, we purchase connections from several ISPs. We can offer no assurances that these ISPs will continue to provide service to us on a continuous, cost-effective basis or on competitive terms, if at all, or that these providers will provide us with additional capacity to adequately meet customer demand or to expand our business. Consolidation among ISPs limits the number of vendors from which we obtain service, possibly resulting in higher network costs to us. We may be unable to establish and maintain relationships with other ISPs that may emerge or that are significant in geographic areas, such as Asia and Europe, in which we may locate our future network access points. Any of these situations could limit our growth prospects and materially and adversely affect our business.. We also depend on other companies to supply various key elements of our network infrastructure, including the network access loops between our network access points and our ISP, local loops between our network access points and our customers' networks and certain end-user access networks. Pricing for such network access loops and local loops has risen over time and operators of these networks may take measures that could degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of our or our customers' access to certain of these end-user access networks by restricting or prohibiting the use of their networks to support or facilitate our services, or by charging increased fees. Some of our competitors have their own network access loops and local loops and are, therefore, not subject to similar availability and pricing issues.. For data center and hosting facilities, we rely on a number of vendors to provide physical space, convert or build space to our specifications, provide power, internal cabling and wiring, climate control, physical security and system redundancy. We typically obtain physical space through long-term leases. We utilize multiple other vendors to perform leasehold improvements necessary to make the physical space available for occupancy. The demand for premium data center and hosting space in several key markets has outpaced supply over recent years and the imbalance is projected to continue over the near term. This has limited our physical space options and increased, and will continue to increase, our costs to add capacity. If we are not able to procure space through renewing our existing leases or entering into new leases, acquiring the entities which have leases, or are not able to contain costs for physical space, or are not able to pass these costs on to our customers, our results will be adversely affected.. In addition, we currently purchase infrastructure equipment such as servers, routers, switches and storage components from a limited number of vendors. We do not carry significant inventories of the equipment we purchase, and we have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our vendors. A loss of a significant vendor could delay any build-out of our infrastructure and increase our costs. If our limited source of suppliers fails to provide products or services that comply with evolving Internet standards or that interoperate with other products or services we use in our network infrastructure, we may be unable to meet all or a portion of our customer service commitments, which could materially and adversely affect our results.. Some of our products and services contain or use open source software, which may pose risks to our proprietary software and solutions.. We currently use open source software in our products and for certain services and will use open source software in the future. From time to time, we may face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software (which could include our proprietary source code), or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims could result in litigation and could require us to purchase a costly license or cease offering the implicated solutions unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement. This re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software because open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Any failure of our physical IT infrastructure or applications could lead to unexpected costs and disruptions that could harm our business reputation, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our business depends on providing customers with highly-reliable services. We must protect our IT infrastructure and our customers' data and their equipment located in our data centers. The services we provide in each of our data centers are subject to failure resulting from numerous factors, including:. • human error or accidents;. • physical or electronic security breaches;. 11. • network connectivity downtime;. • fire, earthquake, hurricane, flood, tornado and other natural disasters;. • improper maintenance by the landlords of the buildings in which our data centers are located;. • water damage, extreme temperatures and fiber cuts;. • power loss, utility interruptions or equipment failure;. • sabotage, vandalism and terrorism; and. • failure by us or our vendors to provide adequate service or maintenance to our equipment.. Additionally, in connection with the expansion or consolidation of our existing data center facilities from time to time, there is an increased risk that service interruptions may occur as a result of server relocation or other unforeseen construction-related issues or issues with moving and bringing equipment online.. Problems at one of our sites, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions or significant equipment damage. Most of our customers have service level agreements (\"SLA\") that require us to meet minimum performance obligations and to provide service credits to customers if we do not meet those obligations. If a service interruption impacts a significant portion of our customer base, the amount of service credits we are required to provide could adversely impact our business and financial condition. Also, if we experience a service interruption and we fail to provide a service credit under an SLA, we could face claims related to such failures, which could adversely impact our business and financial condition. Because our data centers are mission critical to our customers' businesses, service interruptions or significant equipment damage in our data centers also could result in lost profits or other indirect or consequential damages to our customers. We cannot guarantee that a court would enforce any contractual limitations on our liability in the event that a customer brings a lawsuit against us as the result of a failure to meet performance obligations in our SLAs.. Any loss of services, equipment damage or inability to meet performance obligations in our SLAs could reduce the confidence of our customers and could result in lost customers or an inability to attract new customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our operating results.. Furthermore, we are dependent upon ISPs and telecommunications carriers in the U.S., Europe and Asia-Pacific region, some of whom have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Users of our services may experience difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems and services. If, for any reason, these providers fail to provide the required services, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted.. Our inability to renew our data center leases, or renew on favorable terms, and potential unknown costs related to asset retirement obligations could negatively impact our financial results.. We do not own the facilities occupied by our current data centers, but occupy them pursuant to commercial leasing arrangements.  Generally, our leases provide us with the opportunity to renew the leases at our option for periods typically ranging from five to 10 years. Many of these options provide that rent for the renewal period will be the fair market rental rate at the time of renewal. If the fair market rental rates are higher than our current rental rates, we may be unable to offset these costs by charging more for our services, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, we have long-term agreements for certain of the leased properties which extend beyond 10 years and such agreements specify the rental rates for such long-term periods. If rental rates drop in the near term, we would not be able to take advantage of the drop in rates until the expiration of the lease as we would be bound by the terms of the existing lease.. For the leases that do not contain renewal options, or for which the option to renew has been exhausted or passed, we cannot guarantee the landlord will renew the lease, or will do so at a rate that will allow us to maintain profitability on that particular space. While we proactively monitor these leases and conduct ongoing negotiations with landlord, our ability to renegotiate renewals is inherently limited by the original contract language, including option renewal clauses. If we are unable to renew, we may incur substantial costs to move our infrastructure and/or customers and to restore the property to its required condition. There is no guarantee that our customers would move with us and we may not be able to find appropriate and sufficient space. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, we have capital lease agreements that require us to decommission the physical space for which we have not yet recorded an asset retirement obligation (\"ARO\"). Due to the uncertainty of specific decommissioning obligations, timing and related costs, an ARO is not reasonably estimable for these properties and we have not recorded a liability at this time for such properties.. A failure in the redundancies in one or more of our NOCs, POPs or computer systems could cause a significant disruption in Internet connectivity which could impact our ability to serve our customers.. 12. While we maintain multiple layers of redundancy in our operating facilities, if we experience a problem at one or more of our network operations centers (\"NOCs\"), including the failure of redundant systems, we may be unable to provide Internet connectivity services to our customers, provide customer service and support or monitor our network infrastructure or POPs, any of which would seriously harm our reputation, business and operating results. Also, because we are obligated to provide continuous Internet availability under our SLAs, we may be required to issue service credits as a result of such interruptions in service. If material, these credits could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. In addition, interruptions in service to our customers could potentially harm our customer relations, expose us to potential lawsuits or necessitate additional capital expenditures.. A significant number of our POPs are located in facilities owned and operated by third parties. In many of those arrangements, we do not have property rights similar to those customarily possessed by a lessee or subtenant but instead have lesser rights of occupancy. In certain situations, the financial condition of those parties providing occupancy to us could have an adverse impact on the continued occupancy arrangement or the level of service delivered to us under such arrangements.. Our network and software are subject to potential security breaches and similar threats that could result in liability and harm our reputation.. Threats to IT security can take a variety of forms. Individual and groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, continuously undertake attacks that pose threats to our customers and our IT. These actors may use a wide variety of methods, which may include developing and deploying malicious software to attack our products and services and gain access to our networks and datacenters, using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or customers to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users' or customers' data, or acting in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service, ransomware or other coordinated attacks. Cyber threats are constantly evolving, increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. Cyber threats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those of our customers.. A number of widespread and disabling attacks on public and private networks have occurred in the past in our industry. The number and severity of these attacks may increase in the future as network assailants take advantage of outdated software, hardware limitations, software vulnerabilities, security breaches or incompatibility between or among networks. Computer viruses, intrusions and similar disruptive problems could cause us to be liable for damages under agreements with our customers and fines and penalties to governmental or regulatory agencies, and our reputation could suffer, thereby resulting in a loss of current customers and deterring potential customers from working with us. Security problems or other attacks caused by third parties could lead to interruptions and delays or to the cessation of service to our customers. Furthermore, inappropriate use of the network by third parties could also jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer systems and in those of our customers and could expose us to liability under unsolicited commercial e-mail, or \"spam,\" regulations.. In the past, third parties have occasionally circumvented some of these industry-standard measures. We can offer no assurance that the measures we implement will not be circumvented.  Breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our reputation or competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business.  Affected customers might file claims against us under such circumstances, and our insurance may not be available or adequate to cover these claims.. Disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation.. As we continue to grow our cloud services, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers. The continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. Despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, it is possible that the security controls we have implemented to safeguard personal data and our networks, our training of employees and vendors on data security, our vendor security requirements, and other practices we follow may not prevent the compromise of our networks or the improper disclosure of customer data that we or our vendors store and manage. Improper disclosure could harm our reputation, create risks for customers, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.. 13. Our business requires the continued development of effective and efficient business support systems to support our customer growth and related services.. The growth of our business depends on our ability to continue to develop and successfully implement effective and efficient business support policies, processes and internal systems. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise. Business support systems are needed for:. • sourcing, evaluating and targeting potential customers and managing existing customers;. • implementing customer orders for services;. • delivering these services;. • timely billing and collection for these services;. • budgeting, forecasting, tracking and reporting our results of operations;. • maintaining the Company's internal control for financial information; and. • providing technical and operational support to customers and tracking the resolution of customer issues.. If the number of customers that we serve or our services portfolio increases, we may need to develop additional business support systems on a schedule sufficient to meet proposed service rollout dates. The failure to continue to develop effective and efficient business support systems, and update or optimize these systems to a level commensurate with the needs of our business and/or our competition, could harm our ability to implement our business plans, maintain competitiveness and meet our financial goals and objectives.. We are required to maintain, repair, upgrade, and replace our network and our facilities, the cost of which could materially impact our results and our failure to do so could irreparably harm our business.. Our business requires that we maintain, repair, upgrade, and periodically replace our facilities and networks. This requires management time, planning by our staff and capital expenditures. In the event that we fail to maintain, repair, upgrade, or replace essential portions of our network or facilities, it could lead to a material degradation or interruption in the level of service that we provide to our customers. Our networks can be damaged in a number of ways, including by other parties engaged in construction close to our network facilities. In the event of such damage, we will be required to incur expenses to repair the network. We could be subject to significant network repair and replacement expenses in the event a terrorist attack or a natural disaster damages our network. Further, the operation of our network requires the coordination and integration of sophisticated and highly specialized hardware and software. Our failure to maintain or properly operate this can lead to degradations or interruptions in customer service. Our failure to provide proper customer service could result in claims from our customers due to failing to meet SLAs, early termination of contracts, and damage to our reputation.. Our global operations may not be successful.. We operate globally in various locations. We may develop or acquire POPs or complementary businesses in additional global markets. The risks associated with our global business operations include:. • challenges in establishing and maintaining relationships with global customers, ISPs and local vendors, including data center and local network operators;. • challenges in staffing and managing NOCs and POPs across disparate geographic areas;. • potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than the laws in the U.S.;. • challenges in reducing operating expense or other costs required by local laws and longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;. • exposure to fluctuations in international currency exchange rates; and. • costs of customizing POPs for foreign countries and customers.. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to address the risks associated with our global operations, which may limit our sales growth and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We are dependent on certain key personnel, the loss of which may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. We depend, and will continue to depend in the foreseeable future, on the services our Chief Executive Officer, Peter Aquino, and other key personnel, which may consist of a relatively small number of individuals that possess sales, research and development, engineering, marketing, financial, technical and other skills that are critical to the operation of our business. The ability to retain officers and key senior employees is important to our success and future growth. Competition for these professionals can be intense, and we may not be able to retain and motivate our existing management and key personnel, and continue to compensate such individuals competitively. The. 14. unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our businesses, and could hinder our ability to effectively compete in the various industries in which we operate.. We face certain risks associated with the acquisition or disposition of businesses or entry into joint ventures.. In pursuing our corporate strategy, we may acquire, dispose of or exit businesses or reorganize our existing business.  The success of this strategy is dependent upon our ability to identify appropriate opportunities, negotiate transactions on favorable terms and ultimately complete such transactions. Acquisitions (including SingleHop), dispositions, joint ventures and other complex transactions are accompanied by a number of risks, including the following:. • difficulty integrating the operations, control environments and personnel of acquired companies;. • potential disruption of our ongoing business;. • potential distraction of management and other key personnel;. • diversion of business resources from core operations;. • expenses and potential liabilities related to the transactions, dispositions or acquired business;. • failure to realize synergies or other expected benefits;. • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures, and policies, and. • increased accounting charges such as impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, amortization of intangible assets acquired and a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired.. Any inability to identify and integrate completed acquisitions or combinations in an efficient and timely manner could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. As we complete acquisitions, we may encounter difficulty in incorporating acquired technologies and services into our offerings while maintaining the quality standards that are consistent with our business operations, brand and reputation. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions or other strategic transactions that we may pursue in the future, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without a successful result. Future acquisitions could require use of substantial portions of our available cash or result in dilutive issuances of securities. Technology sharing or other strategic relationships we enter into may give rise to disputes over intellectual property ownership, operational responsibilities and other significant matters. Such disputes may be expensive and time-consuming to resolve and adversely impact our business and results of operations.. We intend to increase our size in the future, and may experience difficulties in managing growth.. We have adopted a business strategy that contemplates that we will expand our operations, including future acquisitions or other business opportunities, and as a result we are required to increase our level of corporate functions, which may include hiring additional personnel to perform such functions and enhancing our IT systems. Any future growth may increase our corporate operating costs and expenses and impose significant added responsibilities on members of our management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees and implement enhanced informational technology systems. Our future financial performance and our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively.. We may become involved in various types of litigation that may adversely impact our business.. From time to time, we are or may become involved in various legal proceedings relating to matters incidental to the ordinary course of our business, including patent, commercial, product liability, employment, class action, whistleblower and other litigation and claims, and governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert management's attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses even if the claims are without merit.. Furthermore, because such matters are inherently unpredictable, there can be no assurance that the results of any of these matters will not have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.. Deterioration of global economic conditions could adversely affect our business.. The global economy and capital and credit markets may experience exceptional turmoil and upheaval over the past several years. Many major economies worldwide could enter significant economic recessions and continue to experience economic weakness, with the potential for another economic downturn to occur.  To the extent economic conditions could impair our customers' ability to profitably monetize the content we deliver on their behalf, they may reduce or eliminate the traffic we deliver for them. Such reductions in traffic could lead to a reduction in our revenue. Additionally, in a down-cycle economic environment, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure, customer loss, a slowdown in commerce over the Internet and corresponding decrease in traffic delivered over our network and failures by customers to pay amounts owed to us on a timely basis or at all. Suppliers on which we rely on for. 15. various services could also be negatively impacted by economic conditions that, in turn, could have a negative impact on our operations or expenses.. The availability, cost and terms of credit also may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally, and the strength of counterparties specifically, may lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce credit to businesses and consumers. These factors could lead to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers over the past several years, and a corresponding slowdown in global infrastructure spending.. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations.. We operate in international markets, and may in the future consummate additional investments in or acquisitions of foreign businesses. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including:. • political conditions and events, including embargo;. • restrictive actions by U.S. and foreign governments;. • the imposition of withholding or other taxes on foreign income, tariffs or restrictions on foreign trade and investment;. • adverse tax consequences;. • limitations on repatriation of earnings and cash;. • currency exchange controls and import/export quotas;. • nationalization, expropriation, asset seizure, blockades and blacklisting;. • limitations in the availability, amount or terms of insurance coverage;. • loss of contract rights and inability to adequately enforce contracts;. • political instability, war and civil disturbances or other risks that may limit or disrupt markets, such as terrorist attacks, piracy and kidnapping;. • outbreaks of pandemic diseases or fear of such outbreaks;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange that affect demand for our services and our profitability;. • potential noncompliance with a wide variety of anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the \"FCPA\"), and similar non-U.S. laws and regulations, including the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (the \"Bribery Act\");. • labor strikes and shortages;. • changes in general economic and political conditions;. • adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements; and. • different liability standards and legal systems that may be less developed and less predictable than those in the United States.. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, we could lose our ability to operate in certain international markets, face fines or sanctions, incur significant expenses or liabilities and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. The U.S. Departments of Justice, Commerce, Treasury and other agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against companies for violations of export controls, the FCPA, and other federal statutes, sanctions and regulations, including those established by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\") and, increasingly, similar or more restrictive foreign laws, rules and regulations. By virtue of these laws and regulations, and under laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, including the European Union and the United Kingdom, we may be obliged to limit our business activities, we may incur costs for compliance programs and we may be subject to enforcement actions or penalties for noncompliance.. In recent years, U.S. and foreign governments have increased their oversight and enforcement activities with respect to these laws and we expect the relevant agencies to continue to increase these activities. A violation of these laws, sanctions or regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Company has compliance policies in place for its employees with respect to FCPA, OFAC and similar laws.  However, there can be no assurance that our employees, consultants or agents, or those of our subsidiaries or investees, will not engage in conduct for which we may be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA, the Bribery Act, the rules and regulations established by OFAC and other laws, sanctions or regulations may result in severe criminal or civil penalties, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Furthermore, significant developments stemming from the 2016 U.S. presidential election could have a material adverse effect on us. The U.S. presidential administration has expressed antipathy towards existing trade agreements, like NAFTA, and proposed trade agreements greater restrictions on free trade generally and significant increases on tariffs on goods imported into the United States,. 16. particularly from China. Changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries where we currently develop and sell products, and any negative sentiments towards the United States as a result of such changes, could adversely affect our business. In addition, negative sentiments towards the United States among non-U.S. customers and among non-U.S. employees or prospective employees could adversely affect sales or hiring and retention, respectively.. Global or local climate change and natural resource conservation regulations could adversely impact our business.. Our operations, including our data centers and server networks, require and consume significant energy resources, including electricity generated by the burning of fossil fuels. In response to concerns about global climate change, governments may adopt new regulations affecting the use of fossil fuels or requiring the use of alternative fuel sources to power energy resources that serve our operations. In addition, our customers and investors may require us to take steps to demonstrate that we are taking ecologically responsible measures in operating our business. The costs and any expenses we incur to make our network more energy efficient could make us less profitable in future periods. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other requirements imposed on us could lead to fines, lost revenue and damage to our reputation.. Risks Related to our Substantial Indebtedness. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement or other debt agreements, there would be a default under the terms of these agreements, and this could result in an acceleration of payment of funds that have been borrowed or may have other material adverse effects on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our existing credit agreement requires us to, among other things, meet certain financial covenants related to (i) our maximum total net leverage ratio, (ii) our minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio, (iii) limitations on our capital expenditures and (iv) other negative and reporting covenants. These covenants protect the lenders and limit our ability to make certain operating and business decisions in the face of changing market dynamics. These covenants can be waived by the lenders. However, the cost of obtaining waivers, which could be material, must be weighed against the opportunity created by adjusting the covenants. In addition, our credit facility creates liens on a majority of our assets.. If we do not satisfy these covenants, we would be in default under the credit agreement. Any defaults, if not waived or cured, could result in our lenders ceasing to make loans or extending credit to us, accelerating or declaring all or any obligations immediately due or taking possession of or liquidating collateral. Defaults on our credit agreement could cause cross-defaults under other agreements or have negative impacts on other commercial arrangements with vendors that provide services to us or our lease agreements. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the credit agreement on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or obtain a waiver or forbearance of the covenants, which could materially and adversely impact our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, our ability to access sources of liquidity or the capital markets may be limited at a time when we would like or need to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to pursue expansion opportunities and maintain our desired level of revenue growth in the future.. We can make no assurances that we will be able to comply with our covenants in the future or whether we will be able to obtain future amendments or waivers of the covenants in our financing agreements and instruments, if necessary, upon acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, future amendments or waivers may place future restrictions on our ability to engage in certain activities, as well as increase the cost of our financing.. We currently have a significant amount of debt which we may not be able to repay when due. Any failure to meet or repay our debt or meet our debt obligations and other long-term commitments would have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. As of December 31, 2017, our total debt, including capital leases, was $539.0 million. Our revolving credit facility (\"revolving credit facility\") matures on October 6, 2021 and our term loan facility (\"term loan\") matures on April 6, 2022. On April 6, 2017, we entered into a new Credit Agreement (the \"2017 Credit Agreement\"), which provides for a $300 million term loan facility and a $25 million revolving credit facility. The proceeds of the term loan were used to refinance the Company's existing credit facility and to pay costs and expenses associated with the 2017 Credit Agreement. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof or incur additional debt. Our significant level of debt could make it more difficult for us to obtain additional debt financing in the future. In addition, if we raise additional funds by incurring additional debt, we will incur increased debt service costs or be subject to increased interest rates and may become subject to more restrictive financial and other covenants which could limit our ability to operate our business as we desire or in response to competitive pressure. We can make no assurances that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. 17. If our financial performance weakens or if we are unable to make interest or principal payments when due, meet our covenants or amend our credit facility to modify the covenants, we may default under our credit facility. Such default would result in all principal and interest becoming due and payable, if not waived. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If a waiver is required we may not be able to obtain the waiver or it could come at a material cost to us.. We also have other long-term commitments for operating leases and service and purchase contracts. If we are unable to make payments when due, we would be in breach of contractual terms of the agreements, which may result in disruptions of our services which, in turn, would have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our significant amount of indebtedness could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and ability to compete in our industry.. Our significant amount of indebtedness could materially adversely affect us. For example, it could: require us to (i) dedicate a significant portion of our cash flows from operations and investing activities to make payments on our debt, which would reduce our ability to fund working capital, make capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes, (ii) increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions (such as credit-related disruptions), (iii) place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have proportionately less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates or on better terms; and (iv) limit our ability to react to competitive pressures, or make it difficult for us to carry out capital spending that is necessary or important to our strategy. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and ability to compete in our industry.. To service our significant indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. However, our ability to generate cash depends on many factors many of which are beyond our control.. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. If we use more cash than we generate in the future or fail to generate cash, our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our future operations by increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions and by limiting or prohibiting our ability to obtain additional financing for future capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes. We can make no assurances that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. In these circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. Without this financing, we could be forced to sell assets or secure additional financing to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. However, we may not be able to secure additional financing on terms favorable to us or at all.. Disruptions in the financial markets or increases in interest rates could affect our ability to obtain debt or equity financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness on reasonable terms (or at all), could increase the cost of servicing our debt and have other adverse effects on us.. Disruptions in the commercial credit markets could result in a tightening of credit markets or an increase in interest rates or borrowing rates. The effects of credit market disruptions in the recent past were widespread, and it is impossible to predict future credit markets or interest rates. As a result, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, which could affect our strategic operations and our financial performance and force modifications to our operations. In addition, if interest rates increase between the time an existing financing arrangement is consummated and the time such financing arrangement is refinanced, the cost of servicing our debt would increase and our liquidity and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to our Capital Stock and Other Business Risks. We have a history of losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability.. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, we incurred net losses attributable to INAP stockholders of $45.3 million, $124.7 million, and $48.4 million, respectively. At December 31, 2017, our accumulated deficit was $1.3 billion and our working capital deficit was $23.5 million. Given the competitive and evolving nature of the industry in which we operate, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, including our ability to raise additional funds or refinance our current levels of indebtedness.. 18. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and likely will continue to fluctuate, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock.. We have experienced fluctuations in our results of operations on a quarterly and annual basis. Fluctuation in our operating results may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect to experience continued fluctuations in our operating results in the foreseeable future due to a variety of factors, including:. • competition and the introduction of new services by our competitors;. • continued pricing pressures;. • fluctuations in the demand and sales cycle for our services;. • fluctuations in the market for qualified sales, technical, customer support and retention and other personnel;. • the cost and availability of adequate public utility services, including access to power;. • our ability to obtain local loop connections to our POPs at favorable prices; and. • any impairment or restructuring charges that we may incur in the future.. In addition, fluctuations in our results of operations may arise from strategic decisions we have made or may make with respect to the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures such as those associated with the expansion of our data center facilities, the deployment of additional POPs, the terms of our network connectivity purchase agreements and the cost of servers, storage and other equipment necessary to deploy hosting and cloud services. A relatively large portion of our expenses are fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to lease and personnel expense, depreciation and amortization and interest expense. Our results of operations, therefore, are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenue. We can offer no assurance that the results of any particular period are an indication of future performance in our business operations. Fluctuations in our results of operations could have a negative impact on our ability to raise additional capital and execute our business plan.. We may incur additional goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges, restructuring charges or both.. The assumptions, inputs and judgments used in performing the valuation analysis and assessments of goodwill and other intangible assets are inherently subjective and reflect estimates based on known facts and circumstances at the time the valuation is performed. The use of different assumptions, inputs and judgments or changes in circumstances could materially affect the results of the valuation and assessments. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from our estimates.. When circumstances warrant, we may elect to exit certain business activities or change the manner in which we conduct ongoing operations. When we make such a change, we will estimate the costs to exit a business or restructure ongoing operations. The components of the estimates may include estimates and assumptions regarding the timing and costs of future events and activities that represent our best expectations based on known facts and circumstances at the time of estimation. Should circumstances warrant, we will adjust our previous estimates to reflect what we then believe to be a more accurate representation of expected future costs. Because our estimates and assumptions regarding impairment and restructuring charges include probabilities of future events, such as expected operating results, future economic conditions, the ability to find a sublease tenant within a reasonable period of time or the rate at which a sublease tenant will pay for the available space, such estimates are inherently subject to changes due to unforeseen circumstances that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Adverse changes in any of these factors could result in additional impairment and restructuring charges in the future.. Our stock price may be volatile.. The market for our equity securities has been extremely volatile. Our stock price could suffer in the future as a result of any failure to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors about our results of operations from quarter to quarter. The following factors could cause the price of our common stock in the public market to fluctuate significantly:. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly and annual results of operations;. • changes in market valuations of companies in the industries in which we may compete;. • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts;. • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes;. • future issuances of common stock or other securities;. • the addition or departure of key personnel;. • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances; and. • actions of our equity investors, including sales of our common stock by significant stockholders.. 19. Changes in U.S. tax laws could have an effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (TCJA) that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.  The TCJA, among other things, includes lowering the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, imposes significant additional limitations on interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system.  We do not expect the tax reform to have a material impact on our projected cash taxes or to our net operating losses.  Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities will be revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate tax rate and the impact will be offset by a change in our valuation allowance.  We will continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business.. We may not be able to fully utilize our U.S. net operating loss and other tax carryforwards.. As of December 31, 2017, we had net operating loss (\"NOLs\") carryforwards of $334.6 million for U.S. federal tax purposes. These loss carryforwards expire between 2018 and 2036. Our ability to utilize our NOL and other tax carryforward amounts to reduce taxable income in future years may be limited for various reasons, including if future taxable income is insufficient to recognize the full benefit of such NOL carryforward amounts prior to their expiration. Additionally, our ability to fully utilize these U.S. tax assets can also be adversely affected by \"ownership changes\" within the meaning of Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50% increase in equity ownership by \"5% shareholders\" (as that term is defined for purposes of Sections 382 and 383 of the Code) in any three-year period.. To the extent these net operating loss carryforwards are available; we intend to use them to reduce the corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. To the extent our use of net operating loss carryforwards is limited, our income could be subject to corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could result in lower profits.. We may face litigation and liability due to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights and due to our customers' use of our IT infrastructure services.. The IT infrastructure services industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. From time-to-time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. Any claims that our IT infrastructure services infringe or may infringe proprietary rights of third parties, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, our customer agreements generally require us to indemnify our customers for expenses and liabilities resulting from claimed infringement of patents or copyrights of third parties, subject to certain limitations. If an infringement claim against us were to be successful, and we were not able to obtain a license to the relevant technology or a substitute technology on acceptable terms or redesign our services or products to avoid infringement, our ability to compete successfully in our market would be materially impaired.. In addition, our customers use our IT infrastructure services to operate and run certain aspects and functions of their businesses. From time-to-time, third parties may assert that our customers' businesses, including the business aspects and functions for which they use our IT infrastructure services, infringe patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret or other intellectual property or legal rights. Our customers' businesses may also be subject to regulatory oversight, governmental investigation, data breaches and lawsuits by their customers, competitors or other third parties based on a broad range of legal theories. Such third parties may seek to hold us liable on the basis of contributory or vicarious liability or other legal theories. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could negatively impact our operating results. If any such claim against us were to be successful, damages could be material and our ability to compete successfully in our market would be materially impaired.. We may not be successful in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. We rely primarily on patent, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection.  We currently have 23 patents issued in the U.S. and internationally.  Our issued patents may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated and we may expend significant amounts to protect our intellectual property.. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees, contractors, and third parties with whom we do business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. The steps we have taken, however, may not prevent unauthorized use, disclosure or the. 20. reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent, superior to, or otherwise competitive to the technologies we employ in our services or that infringe our intellectual property. We may be unable to prevent competitors from acquiring trademarks or service marks and other proprietary rights that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and service marks and our other proprietary rights. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on successful legal actions against infringers and parties who misappropriate our proprietary information and trade secrets, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed.. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Despite the measures taken by us, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology and information without authorization. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technologies and other intellectual property and our services is difficult, and litigation could become necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any litigation could be time consuming and expensive to prosecute or resolve, result in substantial diversion of management attention and resources, and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The insurance coverage that we purchase may prove to be inadequate or unavailable when we need the coverage.. We carry liability, property, directors and officers, business interruption, Cyber and other insurance policies to cover insurable risks to our company. We select the types of insurance, the limits and the deductibles based on our specific risk profile, the cost of the insurance coverage versus its perceived benefit and general industry standards. Our insurance policies contain industry standard exclusions for events such as war. Although we generally attempt to select reputable insurance carriers, any economic disruptions may prevent us from using our insurance if the counterparty does not have the capital necessary to meet the coverage.  Any of the limits of insurance that we purchase could prove to be inadequate, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may require additional capital and may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms to meet our future capital needs, which could adversely affect our financial position and result in stockholder dilution.. In order to fund future growth, we will be dependent on significant capital expenditures. We may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings in the future in order to meet our operating and capital needs. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need such funding. If we are unable to raise additional funds, we may not be able to pursue our growth strategy, and our business could suffer. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, any debt financing that we may obtain in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions.. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders.. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and provisions of Delaware law, could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company. These provisions are intended to protect stockholders' interests by providing our board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. Such provisions include a board of directors that is classified so that only one-third of directors stand for election each year.  In addition, the board of directors can create and issue blank check preferred stock, without prior stockholder approval, with voting, liquidation, dividend, and other rights senior to those of our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions.. Actions of stockholders could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert management's attention and resources, and have an adverse effect on our business.. We have been, and may be in the future, subject to proposals by stockholders urging us to take certain corporate actions. If stockholder activities develop, our business could be adversely affected as responding to proxy contests or stockholder proposals and reacting to other actions by stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees. We may be required to retain the services of various professionals to advise us on certain stockholder matters, including legal, financial and communications advisors, the costs of which may negatively impact our future financial results. In addition, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, strategy or leadership created as a consequence of stockholder initiatives may result in the loss. 21. of potential business opportunities, harm our ability to attract new investors, customers, employees, and cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility or stagnation.. Concentration of ownership among our certain large stockholders and their affiliates may limit the influence of new investors on corporate decisions and the interests of such large stockholders may materially differ from your interests.. A majority of our outstanding shares are held by a relatively small number of our stockholders. As a result, if some of these stockholders vote in an aligned manner, they could be capable of meaningfully influencing the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and may delay or preclude an acquisition or cause the market price of our stock to decline. Some of these persons or entities may have interests that may materially differ from the rest of our stockholders.. The trading price of our common stock may decline if our stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or if we issue a large number of new shares of our common stock or shares convertible into our common stock.. A majority of our outstanding shares of common stock are held by a relatively small number of our stockholders. A sale of a substantial number of our shares in the public market by our significant stockholders or pursuant to new issuances by us could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. In February 2017, we completed a private placement of common stock, which may be sold pursuant to the registration statement that was filed with the SEC or under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Any sale by these stockholders or issuance of common stock could have material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, new issuances of common stock or shares convertible into common stock by us would dilute the equity interests and voting power of our existing stockholders.. If we are unable to maintain compliance with the continued listing requirements as set forth in The Nasdaq Listing Rules, our common stock could be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market, and if this were to occur, then the price and liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital could be adversely affected.. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. Continued listing of a security on the Nasdaq Global Market is conditioned upon compliance with certain continued listing requirements set forth in the Nasdaq Listing Rules. There can be no assurance we will continue to satisfy the requirements for listing on the Nasdaq Global Market.. If we are not able to maintain compliance with the continued listing standards as set forth in the Nasdaq Listing Rules for Nasdaq Global Market companies, our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market and an associated decrease in liquidity in the market for our common stock may occur.. The delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets, and any limitation on liquidity or reduction in the price of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from The Nasdaq Global Market could also result in the potential loss of confidence by our business partners and suppliers, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities.. Because we do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value.. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, for use in the operation of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock. In addition, the terms of our debt instruments impose limitations on our ability to pay dividends. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. In Item 9A, \"Controls and Procedures\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting.. As a result of the material weaknesses, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. The material weakness for the year ended December 31, 2017 related to the review of property and equipment depreciation and amortization schedules.  The material weakness for the year ended December 31, 2016. 22. related to the review of cash flow forecasts used in support of certain fair value estimates.  The assessment was based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in 2013.. We are actively engaged in remediating the material weakness related to the review of property and equipment depreciation and amortization schedules, but our remediation efforts are not complete and are ongoing. We have remediated the material weakness related to the review of cash flow forecasts used in support of certain fair value estimates as of December 31, 2017.. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address any material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, it may materially adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner and impact investor confidence in our Company.. Although we continually review and evaluate internal control systems to allow management to report on the sufficiency of our internal controls, we cannot assure you that we will not discover additional weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. The next time we evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, if we identify one or more new material weaknesses or are unable to timely remediate any existing weaknesses, we may be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock and possibly impact our ability to obtain future financing on acceptable terms, if at all."
