[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. Our operating results may fluctuate.. Our operating results, including components of operating results such as gross margin and cost of product sales, may fluctuate from time to time, and such fluctuations could affect our stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate from time to time in the future. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include:. • economic conditions worldwide, which could affect the ability of hospitals and other customers to purchase our products and could result in a reduction in elective and non-reimbursed operative procedures;. • the impact of acquisitions and our ability to integrate acquisitions;. • the impact of our restructuring activities;. • expenditures for major initiatives, including acquired businesses and integrations thereof and restructuring;. • the timing of significant customer orders, which tend to increase in the fourth quarter to coincide with the end of budget cycles for many hospitals;. • market acceptance of our existing products, as well as products in development;. • the timing of regulatory approvals as well as changes in country-specific regulatory requirements;. • changes in the rates of exchange between the U.S. dollar and other currencies of foreign countries in which we do business;. • potential backorders, lost sales and expenses incurred in connection with product recalls or field corrective actions;. • disruption of our operations and sales resulting from extreme weather conditions or natural disasters that damage our manufacturing or distribution facilities, the suppliers and service providers for those facilities, or the infrastructure in the locations of those facilities;. 12. • our ability to manufacture and ship our products efficiently or in sufficient quantities to meet sales demands;. • changes in the cost or decreases in the supply of raw materials, including energy, steel and honey;. • the timing of our research and development expenditures;. • reimbursement for our products by third-party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid, private and public health insurers and foreign governmental health systems;. • the ability to maintain existing distribution rights to and from certain third parties;. • the ability to maintain business if or when we opt to convert such business from distributors to a direct sales model;. • the ability of our new commercial sales representatives to obtain sales targets in a reasonable time frame;. • the impact of changes to our sales organization, including channel expansion in the U.S. and increased specialization;. • peer-reviewed publications discussing the clinical effectiveness of the products we sell;. • inspections of our manufacturing facilities for compliance with Quality System Regulations (Good Manufacturing Practices) which could result in Form 483 observations, warning letters, injunctions or other adverse findings from the FDA or from equivalent regulatory bodies, and corrective actions, procedural changes and other actions that we determine are necessary or appropriate to address the results of those inspections, any of which may affect production and our ability to supply our customers with our products;. • changes in regulations or guidelines that impact the sales and marketing practices for products that we sell;. • the increased regulatory scrutiny of certain of our products, including products which we manufacture for others, could result in their being removed from the market or involve field corrective actions that could affect the marketability of our products;. • enforcement or defense of intellectual property rights;. • changes in tax laws, or their interpretations; and. • the impact of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges if future operating results of the acquired businesses are significantly less than the results anticipated at the time of the acquisitions.. The industry and market segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively with other companies.. There is intense competition among medical device companies. We compete with established medical technology companies in many of our product areas. Competition also comes from early-stage companies that have alternative technological solutions for our primary clinical targets, as well as universities, research institutions and other non-profit entities. In certain cases, our products compete primarily against medical practices that treat a condition without using a device or any particular product, such as the medical practices that use autograft tissue instead of our dermal regeneration products, duraplasty products and nerve repair products. Many of our competitors have access to greater financial, technical, research and development, marketing, manufacturing, sales, distribution, administrative, consulting and other resources than we do. Our competitors may be more effective at developing commercial products. Our competitors may be able to gain market share by offering lower-cost products or by offering products that enjoy better reimbursement methodologies from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid, private and public health insurers and foreign governmental health systems.. Our competitive position will depend on our ability to achieve market acceptance for our products, develop new products, implement production and marketing plans, secure regulatory approval for products under development, obtain and maintain reimbursement coverage under Medicare, Medicaid, private and public health insurers and foreign governmental health systems, obtain patent protection and to produce products consistently in sufficient quantities to meet demand. We may need to develop new applications for our products to remain competitive. Technological advances by one or more of our current or future competitors or their achievement of superior reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid, private and public health insurers and foreign governmental health systems could render our present or future products obsolete or uneconomical. Our future success will depend upon our ability to compete effectively against current technology as well as to respond effectively to technological advances and changes in a customer's requirements. Additionally, purchasing decisions of our customers may be based on clinical evidence or comparative effectiveness studies and, because of our vast array of products, we might not be able to fund the studies necessary to gain entry or maintain our position or provide the required information to compete effectively. Other companies may have more resources available to fund such studies. For example, competitors have launched and have been developing products to compete with our dural repair products, extremity reconstruction implants, regenerative skin, neuro critical care monitors and ultrasonic tissue ablation devices, among others. Further, in the current environment of managed care, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our profitability. Given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively or continue our level of success in the areas in which we compete.. 13. If there is a determination that the spin-off of SeaSpine is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then we and our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify SeaSpine for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement.. On July 1, 2015, we completed the separation (the \"Separation\") of our orthobiologics and spinal fusion hardware business, now known as SeaSpine Holdings Corporation (\"SeaSpine\"), from the Company. We received an opinion of Latham & Watkins LLP, tax counsel to us (the \"Tax Opinion\"), substantially to the effect that (i) the contribution of the stock of SeaSpine Orthopedics Corporation to SeaSpine, together with the internal distribution of the stock of SeaSpine to Integra (collectively, the \"internal distribution\"), will constitute a reorganization under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\") and (ii) the contribution of cash from us to SeaSpine (the \"cash contribution\"), together with the distribution of the stock of SeaSpine to our shareholders (the \"distribution\"), will constitute a reorganization under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. Based on this tax treatment, the distribution will be tax-free to Integra and its stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes (except for any cash received in lieu of fractional shares). The Tax Opinion relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from us and SeaSpine regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. The Tax Opinion is not binding on the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") or the courts. Notwithstanding the opinion, the IRS could determine on audit that the internal distribution, the cash contribution and the distribution should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings we or SeaSpine have made is not correct or has been violated, or that the internal distribution, the cash contribution and the distribution should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of a significant change in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. If the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and our stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. In addition, we would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of shares of SeaSpine common stock distributed to our stockholders on the distribution date over our tax basis in such shares of SeaSpine common stock. Moreover, we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that the internal distribution does not qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. We may be subject to continuing contingent liabilities of SeaSpine following the spin-off.. After the Separation, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of SeaSpine may become our obligations. For example, under the Code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of our consolidated U.S. federal income tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the spin-off is jointly and severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of the entire consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. If SeaSpine is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes.. Our current strategy involves growth through acquisitions, which requires us to incur substantial costs and potential liabilities for which we may never realize the anticipated benefits.. In addition to internally generated growth, our current strategy involves growth through acquisitions. Between January 1, 2015 and December 31, 2017, we have acquired 7 businesses at a total cost of approximately $1.56 billion.. We may be unable to continue to implement our growth strategy, and our strategy ultimately may be unsuccessful. A significant portion of our growth in revenues has resulted from, and is expected to continue to result from, the acquisition of businesses or products complementary to our own. We engage in evaluations of potential acquisitions and are in various stages of discussion regarding possible acquisitions, certain of which, if consummated, could be significant to us. Any new acquisition could result in material transaction expenses, increased interest and amortization expense, increased depreciation expense, increased operating expense, and possible in-process research and development charges for acquisitions that do not meet the definition of a \"business,\" any of which could have a material, adverse effect on our operating results. Certain businesses that we acquire may not have adequate financial, disclosure, regulatory, quality or other compliance controls at the time we acquire them. As we grow by acquisition, we must manage and integrate the new businesses to bring them into our systems for financial, disclosure, compliance, regulatory and quality control, realize economies of scale, and control costs. If we cannot integrate acquired businesses and operations, manage the cost of providing our products or price our products appropriately, our profitability could suffer. In addition, acquisitions involve other risks, including diversion of management resources otherwise available for development of our business and risks associated with entering markets in which our marketing teams and sales force has limited experience or where experienced distribution alliances are not available. Our future profitability will depend in part upon our ability to develop further our resources to adapt to these new products or business areas and to identify and enter into or maintain satisfactory distribution networks. Further, as a result of our acquisitions of other healthcare businesses, we may be subject to the risk of unanticipated business uncertainties, regulatory and other compliance matters or legal liabilities relating to those acquired businesses for which the sellers of the acquired businesses may not indemnify us, for which we may not be able to obtain insurance (or adequate insurance), or. 14. for which the indemnification may not be sufficient to cover the ultimate liabilities. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, obtain acceptable financing or consummate any future acquisitions. Certain potential acquisitions are subject to antitrust and competition laws, which laws could impact our ability to pursue strategic acquisitions and could result in mandated divestitures. If we are unsuccessful in our acquisition strategy, we may be unable to meet our financial targets and our financial performance could be materially and adversely affected.. Our future financial results could be adversely affected by impairments or other charges.. Since we have grown through acquisitions, we have $937.9 million of goodwill and $163.9 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets as of December 31, 2017. Under the authoritative guidance for determining the useful life of intangible assets, we are required to test both goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach, rather than amortizing them over time. We are also required to test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs such as a significant decline in revenues or cash flows for certain products, or the discount rates used in the calculations of discounted cash flow change significantly, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. If such a decline, rate change or circumstance were to materialize, we may record an impairment of these intangible assets that could be material to the financial statements. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates\" of this report.. The guidance on long-lived assets requires that we assess the impairment of our long-lived assets, including finite-lived intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable as measured by the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows. As of December 31, 2017, we had $995.7 million and $269.3 million of finite-lived intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, respectively.. At December 31, 2017, our trade names had a carrying value of $245.5 million and decisions relating to our trade names may occur over time. Additionally, we may discontinue certain products in the future as we continue to assess the profitability of our product lines. As a result, we may need to record impairment charges or accelerate amortization on certain trade names or technology-related intangible assets in the future.. The value of a medical device business is often volatile, and the assumptions underlying our estimates made in connection with our assessments under the guidance may change as a result of that volatility or other factors outside our control and may result in impairment charges. The amount of any such impairment charges could be significant and could have a material, adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, including the notes and the common stock into which they may be converted.. The adoption of healthcare reform in the U.S. and initiatives sponsored by other governments may adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.. Our operations may be substantially affected by potential fundamental changes in the global political, economic and regulatory landscape of the healthcare industry. Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs are continuing in the U.S., and in many other countries in which we do business, causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective treatments. These initiatives include price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements. The adoption of some or all of these initiatives could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the \"Affordable Care Act\"), which was signed into law in March 2010, includes several provisions that impact our businesses in the U.S. The Affordable Care Act includes provisions that, among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions), require detailed disclosure of gifts and other remuneration made to healthcare professionals and impose new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform by implementing a 2.3% excise tax, which commenced on January 1, 2013, on the sale of certain medical devices by a manufacturer, producer or importer of such devices in the U.S. In December 2015, President Obama signed into law The Consolidated Appropriations Act, which included a two-year moratorium on the 2.3% medical device excise tax, with the effect such that medical device revenues earned in 2016 and 2017 were exempt from such tax. On January 22, 2018, President Trump signed into law a funding bill, which extended the moratorium on the medical device excise tax for another two years through December 31, 2019. Unless there is further legislative action during that two-year period, the medical device excise tax automatically will be reinstated for sales of medical devices on or after January 1, 2020. While this two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax could provide a short-term benefit to the Company in terms of providing additional monies available to spend on various projects in 2018 and 2019, we are unable to predict what the long-term impact will have on our financial statements and financial performance.. In addition, the Affordable Care Act encourages hospitals and physicians to work collaboratively through shared savings programs, such as accountable care organizations, as well as other bundled payment initiatives, which may ultimately result in the reduction of sales of medical devices and the consolidation of medical device suppliers that hospitals use.. 15. Since the adoption of the Affordable Care Act in 2010, the law has been challenged before the U.S. Supreme Court, and several bills have been and may continue to be introduced in Congress to delay, defund or repeal implementation of or amend significant provisions of the Affordable Care Act. In addition, there continues to be ongoing litigation over the interpretation and implementation of certain provisions of the law. Furthermore, on January 20, 2017, an executive order was issued that, among other things, stated the intention of the administration to repeal the Affordable Care Act and, pending that repeal, instructed the executive branch of the Federal government to defer or delay the implementation of any provision or requirement of the Affordable Care Act that would impose a fiscal burden on any state or a cost, fee, tax or penalty on any individual, family, health care provider, health insurer, or manufacturer of pharmaceuticals or medical devices. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which eliminates the penalty for individuals who fail to purchase acceptable health insurance starting in 2019 and will most likely result in the reduction in the number of insured people in the U.S. We cannot predict whether the Affordable Care Act will be repealed, replaced, or further modified, what impact the President's executive order will have on the implementation and enforcement of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act, or what impact the elimination of the penalty and resulting reduction in the number of insured people in the U.S. will have on the demand and pricing for our products. In addition, if the Affordable Care Act is replaced or modified, we cannot predict what the replacement plan or modifications would be, when the replacement plan or modifications would become effective, or whether any of the existing provisions of the Affordable Care Act would remain in place. As a result, while we are unable to predict the effect of the Affordable Care Act and the various activities surrounding it on our business, financial condition or results of operations, changes to this law, or a new law that replaces it, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In addition to the Affordable Care Act, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (\"MACRA\") repealed the Sustainable Growth Rate formula used to calculate Medicare payment updates for physicians providing services to Medicare beneficiaries. In its place, MACRA introduced the Quality Payment Program (\"QPP\"), which is a value-based program that focuses on quality and outcomes as a metric for physician reimbursement. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services released its final rules for the QPP in October 2016. The QPP, which impacts more than 600,000 physicians and other practice-based clinicians, represents a fundamental change in physician reimbursement, transitioning from a system that solely rewards volume of care to one that also rewards quality and value of care. While the full impact of QPP on physicians' practices and product selection decisions will not be fully known until payment adjustments go into effect in 2019, 2017 represented the first performance measurement year. The program's increased emphasis on quality and cost of care may encourage physicians to merge practices or seek direct employment with hospitals. This shift could lead to a consolidation of a portion of our customer base, which could have a negative impact on the rate of adoption and utilization of the Company's new and existing products. Although we believe that we are well positioned to minimize any such impact on our business, our inability to address the consolidation trend could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Other initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in the markets where we do business. We cannot predict what healthcare programs and regulations will ultimately be implemented at the U.S. federal or state level or elsewhere, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the U.S. or elsewhere. That said, any changes that lower reimbursements for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We continue to monitor the implementation of such legislation and, to the extent new market or industry trends or new governmental programs evolve, we will consider implementing or implement programs in response.. Changes in the healthcare industry may require us to decrease the selling price for our products, may reduce the size of the market for our products, or may eliminate a market, any of which could have a negative impact on our financial performance.. Trends toward managed care, healthcare cost containment and other changes in government and private sector initiatives in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business are placing increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies that could adversely affect the sale and/or the prices of our products. For example:. • third-party payors of hospital services and hospital outpatient services, including Medicare, Medicaid, private and public health insurers and foreign governmental health systems, annually revise their payment methodologies, which can result in stricter standards for reimbursement of hospital charges for certain medical procedures or the elimination of reimbursement;. • several foreign countries have implemented reforms of their respective healthcare sectors in an effort to reduce healthcare spending, including restricting funding to only those medical technologies and procedures with proven effectiveness, and increasing patient co-payments. Governmental health systems have revised and continue to consider revisions of healthcare budgets, which could result in stricter standards for implementing certain medical procedures, increased scrutiny of medical devices, and downward pricing pressure;. • Medicare, Medicaid, private and public health insurer and foreign governmental cutbacks could create downward pricing pressure on our products;. 16. • in the U.S., local Medicare coverage as well as commercial carrier coverage determinations could reduce or eliminate reimbursement or coverage for certain of our wound matrix products as well as other collagen products in most regions, negatively affecting our market for these products, and future determinations could reduce or eliminate reimbursement or coverage for these products in other regions and could reduce or eliminate reimbursement or coverage for other products;. • there has been a consolidation among healthcare facilities and purchasers of medical devices in the U.S., some of whom prefer to limit the number of suppliers from whom they purchase medical products, and these entities may decide to stop purchasing our products or demand discounts on our prices;. • there has been a growing movement of physicians becoming employees of hospitals and other healthcare entities, which aligns surgeon product choices with his or her employers' purchasing decisions, and adds to pricing pressures;. • in the U.S., we are party to contracts with group purchasing organizations, which negotiate pricing for many member hospitals, require us to discount our prices for certain of our products and limit our ability to raise prices for certain of our products, particularly surgical instruments;. • there is economic pressure to contain healthcare costs in domestic and international markets, and, regardless of the consolidation discussed above, providers generally are exploring ways to cut costs by eliminating purchases or driving reductions in the prices that they pay for medical devices, or increasing clinical or economic evidence thresholds for product formularies;. • there are proposed and existing laws, regulations and industry policies in domestic and international markets regulating the sales and marketing practices and the pricing and profitability of companies in the healthcare industry;. • proposed laws or regulations may permit hospitals to provide financial incentives to doctors for reducing hospital costs, will award physician efficiency, and will encourage partnerships with healthcare service and goods providers to reduce prices; and. • there have been initiatives by third-party payors and foreign governmental health systems to challenge the prices charged for medical products that could affect our ability to sell products on a competitive basis.. Any and all of the above factors could materially and adversely affect our levels of revenue and our profitability.. We are subject to stringent domestic and foreign medical device regulation and any adverse regulatory action may adversely affect our financial condition and business operations.. Our products, development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by numerous government agencies, including the FDA and comparable foreign agencies. To varying degrees, each of these agencies monitors and enforces our compliance with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of our medical devices. We are also subject to regulations that may apply to certain of our products that are Drug/Device Combination products or are considered to be subject to pharmaceutical regulations outside the U.S. The process of obtaining marketing approval or clearance from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory agencies for new products, or for enhancements or modifications to existing products, could. • take a significant amount of time;. • require the expenditure of substantial financial and other resources;. • involve rigorous and expensive pre-clinical and clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance;. • involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products; and. • result in limitations on the indicated uses of our products.. We cannot be certain that we will receive required approval or clearance from the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies for new products or modifications to existing products on a timely basis. The failure to receive approval or clearance for significant new products or modifications to existing products on a timely basis could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations. For example, we are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, which mandates that manufacturers of medical devices adhere to certain quality assurance requirements pertaining to, among other things, validation of manufacturing processes, controls for purchasing product components, and documentation practices. As another example, the Federal Medical Device Reporting regulation requires us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, that a malfunction occurred which would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury upon recurrence. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the FDA, which may result in observations on Form 483, and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or seize such medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, or require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health.. 17. The FDA has intensified its scrutiny of the medical device industry and the government is expected to continue to scrutinize the industry closely with inspections, and possibly enforcement actions, by the FDA or other agencies. Additionally, the FDA may restrict manufacturing and impose other operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees, or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, negative publicity and product liability claims resulting from any adverse regulatory action could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. While we have taken measures to enhance our Quality System, we cannot assure you that future inspections by the FDA and the standards they apply will not result in warning letters for any facility in the future. We are also subject to inspections of our Quality System by regulatory agencies outside the U.S. which could result in the issuance of nonconformance or significant requirements to our Quality System.. The FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017 (\"FDARA\"), which includes the reauthorization of the Medical Device User Fee Amendments of 2012, as well as other medical device provisions, went into effect October 1, 2017. This includes performance goals and user fees paid to the FDA by medical device companies when they register and list with the FDA and when they submit an application to market a device in the U.S. Under FDARA, this user fee program has been reauthorized through fiscal year 2022. Under the Medical Device User Fee Amendments, or MDUFA III, there are additional requirements regarding the FDA Establishment Registration and Listing of Medical Devices. All U.S. and foreign manufacturers must register and list medical devices for sale in the U.S. All of our facilities comply with these requirements. That said, we also source products from foreign contract manufacturers. From this business practice, it is possible that some of our foreign contract manufacturers will not comply with these requirements and choose not to register with the FDA. In such an event, we will need to determine if there are alternative foreign contract manufacturers who comply with the FDA Establishment Registration requirements. If such a foreign contract manufacturer is a sole supplier of one of our products, there is a risk that we may not be able to source another supplier.. The FDA issued a final rule on September 24, 2013 to establish a system to adequately identify devices through distribution and use. This rule requires the label of medical devices to include a unique device identifier (\"UDI\"), except where the rule provides for an exception or alternative placement. The labeler must submit product information concerning devices to FDA's Global Unique Device Identification Database (\"GUDID\"), unless subject to an exception or alternative. The system established by this rule requires the label and device package of each medical device to include a UDI and requires that each UDI be provided in a plain-text version and in a form that uses automatic identification and data capture technology. If the device is intended to be used more than once and intended to be reprocessed before each use, then there is a requirement for the UDI to be directly marked on the device itself. This regulation has required and may continue to require significant resources and expense to comply with the regulation.. We have complied with the requirements of this regulation for our Class III products by meeting the September 2014 deadline, our Class II implantable products by meeting the September 2015 deadline and for all Class II products by meeting the September 2016 deadline for labeling and entering the data in FDA's GUDID Database. The FDA has extended the deadline for complying with these requirements for medical devices that present a lower risk to patients to September 24, 2022.. The FDA issued regulations regarding \"Current Good Manufacturing Practice Requirements for Combination Products\" on January 22, 2013. These regulations apply to some of our product lines that have been designated by the FDA as Combination Products. There have been and will be additional costs associated with compliance with the FDA Good Manufacturing Practice Requirements regulations for Combination Products.. In addition, the United States Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (\"FDCA\") permits device manufacturers to promote products solely for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling. A number of enforcement actions have been taken against manufacturers that promote products for \"off-label\" uses, including actions alleging that federal health care program reimbursement of products promoted for \"off-label\" uses are false and fraudulent claims to the government. The failure to comply with \"off-label\" promotion restrictions can result in significant financial penalties and a required corporate integrity agreement with the federal government imposing significant administrative obligations and costs, and potential evaluation from federal health care programs.. Foreign governmental regulations have become more stringent and we may become subject to even more rigorous regulation by foreign governmental authorities in the future, which could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Penalties for a company's noncompliance with foreign governmental regulation could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company's business license and criminal sanctions. For example, we are subject to Good Manufacturing Practice regulations for Pharmaceuticals in the EU for certain of our products. These regulations also mandate that manufacturers of medical devices (or those that are considered pharmaceuticals) adhere to certain quality assurance requirements. 18. pertaining to, among other things, validation of manufacturing processes, controls for purchasing product components, and documentation practices. There may be additional regulations if such products are considered pharmaceuticals outside the U.S.. In addition, the new European Medical Device Regulation (\"EU MDR\") passed in the European Parliament on April 5, 2017 and went into effect on May 25, 2017, replacing the Medical Device Directive. The EU MDR is an extensive reform of the rules that govern the medical device industry in Europe. Under this regulation, manufacturers will have three (3) years to comply with a broad set of new rules for almost every kind of medical device. The EU MDR will require changes in the clinical evidence required for medical devices, post-market clinical follow-up evidence, annual reporting of safety information for Class III products, and bi-annual reporting for Class II products, Unique Device Identification (\"UDI\") for all products, submission of core data elements to a European UDI database prior to placement of a device on the market, reclassification of medical devices, and multiple other labeling changes.. Under the new EU MDR rules, medical device companies will have to, among other things. do the following:. • provide significantly more clinical evidence to get new products to market and even to keep existing products on the market;. • make changes to product labeling and make certain product data available to the public; and. • conduct product portfolio assessments to determine the impact of the EU MDR on the Company's margins.. Overall, medical device companies can expect longer lead times to obtain product registrations (CE Mark Certification) in the EU and a substantially costlier pathway to compliance in the EU. We are not yet able to determine the costs of complying with these regulations, how the EU will interpret and enforce them, what the timelines for approvals of products will be and the overall effect of the EU MDR on the marketplace. Given the significant additional pre-market and post-market requirements imposed by the EU MDR, the overall impact of these new rules could have a material, adverse effect on the Company's revenues and expenses.. Certain of our products contain materials derived from animal sources and may become subject to additional regulation.. Certain of our products, including our dermal regeneration products, duraplasty products, wound care products, bone void fillers, nerve and tendon repair products and certain other products, contain material derived from bovine tissue. In 2017, approximately 41% of our revenues derived from products containing material derived from bovine tissue. Products that contain materials derived from animal sources, including food, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, are subject to scrutiny in the media and by regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities are concerned about the potential for the transmission of disease from animals to humans via those materials. This public scrutiny has been particularly acute in Japan and Western Europe with respect to products derived from animal sources, because of concern that materials infected with the agent that causes bovine spongiform encephalopathy, otherwise known as BSE or mad cow disease, may, if ingested or implanted, cause a variant of the human Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, an ultimately fatal disease with no known cure. The World Organization for Animal Health (\"OIE\") recognizes the U.S. as having a negligible risk for BSE, which is the highest status available.. We take care to provide that our products are safe and free of agents that can cause disease. In particular, we qualified a source of collagen from a country outside the U.S. that is considered BSE/TSE-free. The World Health Organization classifies different types of bovine tissue for relative risk of BSE transmission. Deep flexor tendon and bovine fetal skin, which are used in our products, are in the lowest-risk categories for BSE transmission and are therefore considered to have a negligible risk of containing the agent that causes BSE (an improperly folded protein known as a prion). Nevertheless, products that contain materials derived from animals, including our products, could become subject to additional regulation, or even be banned in certain countries, because of concern over the potential for the transmission of prions. Significant new regulation, or a ban of our products, could have a material, adverse effect on our current business or our ability to expand our business.. Certain countries, such as Japan, China, Taiwan and Argentina, have issued regulations that require our collagen products be sourced from countries where no cases of BSE have occurred, and the EU has requested that our dural replacement products and other products that are used in neurological tissue be sourced from a country where no cases of BSE have occurred. Currently, we source bovine fetal hides from the U.S. and purchase tendon from the U.S. and New Zealand. New Zealand has never had a case of BSE. We received approval in the U.S., the EU, Japan, Taiwan, China, Argentina as well as other countries for the use of New Zealand-sourced tendon in the manufacturing of our products. If we cannot continue to use or qualify a source of tendon from New Zealand or another country that has never had a case of BSE, we could be prohibited from selling our collagen products in certain countries.. Certain of our products are derived from human tissue and are subject to additional regulations and requirements.. We manufacture and distribute products derived from human tissue. The FDA has specific regulations governing human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products, or HCT/Ps. An HCT/P is a product containing or consisting of human cells or tissue intended for transplantation into a human patient. Examples include bone, ligament, skin, amniotic tissue and cornea. HCT/Ps that meet the criteria for regulation solely under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act (\"Section 361\") are not subject to any premarket clearance or approval requirements but are subject to post-market regulatory requirements.. 19. Some HCT/Ps also meet the definition of a biological product, medical device or drug regulated under the FDCA. These biologic, device or drug HCT/Ps must comply both with the requirements exclusively applicable to Section 361 HCT/Ps and, in addition, with requirements applicable to biologics, devices or drugs, including premarket clearance or approval.. On June 22, 2015, the FDA issued an Untitled Letter alleging that BioD's morselized amniotic membrane tissue based products do not meet the criteria for regulation as HCT/Ps solely under Section 361 and that, as a result, BioD would need a biologics license to lawfully market those morselized products. Since the issuance of the Untitled Letter, BioD and more recently the Company have been in discussions with the FDA to communicate their disagreement with the FDA's assertion that certain products are more than minimally manipulated. The FDA has not changed its position that certain of the BioD acquired products are not eligible for marketing solely under Section 361.. In November 2017, the FDA issued the final guidance document related to human tissue titled, \"Regulatory Considerations for Human Cells, Tissues, and Cellular and Tissue-Based Products: Minimal Manipulation and Homologous Use\" (the \"HCT/P Final Guidance\"). The HCT/P Final Guidance maintains the FDA's position that products such as the Company's morselized amniotic membrane tissue based products do not meet the criteria for regulation solely as HCT/Ps. In addition, the FDA articulated a risk-based approach to enforcement and, while some uses for amniotic membrane tissue based products would enjoy as much as thirty-six months of enforcement discretion, other high risk uses could be subject to immediate enforcement action. The Company does not believe the uses for its amniotic membrane tissue based products fall into the high risk category. Nonetheless, we can make no assurances that the FDA will continue to exercise its enforcement discretion with respect to the Company's amniotic membrane tissue based products, and any potential action of the FDA could have a financial impact regarding the sales of such products. Although the Company continues to disagree with the FDA's position, the Company has been considering and continues to consider regulatory approval pathways for its amniotic membrane tissue based products.. Lack of market acceptance for our products or market preference for technologies that compete with our products could reduce our revenues and profitability.. We cannot be certain that our current products or any other products that we develop or market will achieve or maintain market acceptance. Certain of the medical indications that our devices can treat can also be treated by other medical devices or by medical practices that do not include a device. The medical community widely accepts many alternative treatments, and certain of these other treatments have a long history of use. For example, the use of autograft tissue is a well-established means for repairing the dermis, and it competes for acceptance in the market with our collagen-based wound care products.. We cannot be certain that our new devices and procedures will be able to replace those established treatments or that physicians, the medical community or third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, private and public health insurers and foreign governmental health systems, will accept and utilize our devices or any other medical products that we may develop. For example, greater market acceptance of our wound graft products may ultimately depend on our ability to demonstrate that higher rates of reimbursement are justified because they are an attractive and cost-effective alternative to other treatment options. Additionally, if there are negative events in the industry, whether real or perceived, there could be a negative impact on the industry as a whole.. In addition, our future success depends, in part, on our ability to license and develop additional products. Even if we determine that a product candidate has medical benefits, the cost of commercializing that product candidate, either through internal development or payments associated with licensing arrangements, could be too high to justify development. Competitors could develop products that are more effective, achieve or maintain more favorable reimbursement status from third-party payors both domestically and internationally, including Medicare, Medicaid, private and public health insurers, and foreign governmental health systems, cost less or are ready for commercial introduction before our products. If we are unable to develop additional commercially viable products, our future prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. Market acceptance of our products depends on many factors, including our ability to convince prospective collaborators and customers that our technology is an attractive alternative to other technologies, to manufacture products in sufficient quantities and at acceptable costs, and to supply and service sufficient quantities of our products directly or through our distribution alliances. In addition, unfavorable reimbursement methodologies, or adverse determinations of third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, private and public health insurers, and foreign governmental health systems, regarding our products or third-party determinations that favor a competitor's product over ours, could harm acceptance or continued use of our products. The industry is subject to rapid and continuous change arising from, among other things, consolidation, technological improvements, the pressure on governments, third-party payors and providers to reduce healthcare costs, and healthcare reform legislation and initiatives domestically and internationally. One or more of these factors may vary unpredictably, and such variations could have a material, adverse effect on our competitive position. We may not be able to adjust our contemplated plan of development to meet changing market demands.. 20. Economic and political instability around the world could adversely affect the ability of hospitals, other customers, suppliers and distributors to access funds or otherwise have available liquidity, which could reduce orders for our products or interrupt our production or distribution or result in a reduction in elective and non-reimbursed operative procedures.. Economic and political instability around the world could adversely affect the ability of hospitals and other customers to access funds to enable them to fund their operating and capital budgets. As a result, hospitals and other customers could reduce budgets or put all or part of their budgets on hold or close their operations, which could have a negative effect on our sales, particularly the sales of capital equipment such as our ultrasonic surgical aspirators, neuromonitors and stereotactic products, or result in a reduction in elective and non-reimbursed procedures. The occurrence of those economic conditions could make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities and depending on their severity, could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may have additional tax liabilities.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions and are commonly audited by various tax authorities. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material, adverse effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made.. Our substantial leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our business.. As of December 31, 2017, our total consolidated external debt was approximately $1.9 billion. (See \"Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement\" in Item 7 for a discussion of our debt facility.) We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could have material, adverse consequences, including:. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations;. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged;. • limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes.. Our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business, acquisitions, and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. In addition, the Company may attempt to refinance or extend this obligation depending on prevailing market conditions. Our ability to refinance or extend this obligation will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Any disruptions in our operations, the financial markets, or overall economy may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us.. It could be difficult to replace some of our suppliers.. Outside vendors, some of whom are sole-source suppliers, provide key components and raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. Although we believe that alternative sources for many of these components and raw materials are available, any interruption in supply of a limited or sole-source component or raw material could harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new or alternative source of supply is identified and qualified. In addition, an uncorrected defect or supplier's variation in a component or raw material, either unknown to us or incompatible with our manufacturing process, could harm our ability to manufacture products. We may not be able to find a sufficient alternative supplier in a reasonable time period, or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our ability to produce and supply our products could be impaired. We believe that these factors are most likely to affect the following products that we manufacture:. • our collagen-based products, such as the Integra Dermal Regeneration Template and wound matrix products, the DuraGen® family of products, our Absorbable Collagen Sponges, Primatrix and SurgiMend products;. • our products made from silicone, such as our neurosurgical shunts and drainage systems and hemodynamic shunts;. • products which use many different specialty parts from numerous suppliers, such as our intracranial monitors, catheters and headlights;. • products that use pyrolytic carbon (i.e., PyroCarbon) technology, such as certain of our reconstructive extremity orthopedic implants;. 21. • products that use medical grade leptospermum honey, such as our Medihoney products; and. • our TCC-EZ® total contact cast system products.. In connection with our Confluent Surgical acquisition in January 2014, we entered into a multi-year supply agreement with an affiliate of the seller to continue to manufacture the acquired surgical sealant and adhesion barrier product lines. Pursuant to a contract we entered in 2015, we anticipate that upon receiving regulatory approval we will transfer manufacturing of these product lines to a third party in 2018.. If we were suddenly unable to purchase products or services from one or more of the companies identified above, we would need a significant period of time to qualify a replacement, and the production of any affected products could be disrupted, which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations.. While it is our policy to maintain sufficient inventory of components so that our production will not be significantly disrupted even if a particular component or material is not available for a period of time, we remain at risk that we will not be able to qualify new components or materials quickly enough to prevent a disruption if one or more of our suppliers ceases production of important components or materials.. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products, potentially enabling third parties to use our technology or very similar technology and could reduce our ability to compete in the market.. To compete effectively, we depend, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies and manufacturing processes, which includes the ability to obtain, protect and enforce patents on our technology and to protect our trade secrets. We own or have licensed patents that cover aspects of some of our product lines. Our patents, however, may not provide us with any significant competitive advantage. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable. Competitors may develop products similar to ours that our patents do not cover. In addition, the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years and our current and future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the U.S. or foreign countries.. Our competitive position depends, in part, upon unpatented trade secrets, which we may be unable to protect.. Our competitive position also depends upon unpatented trade secrets, which are difficult to protect. We cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, that our trade secrets will not be disclosed or that we can effectively protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets.. In an effort to protect our trade secrets, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality and invention assignment agreements upon commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements provide that, except in specified circumstances, all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of her relationship with us must be kept confidential. We cannot assure you, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of the unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information.. Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others.. We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we may find it necessary, if threatened, to initiate a lawsuit seeking a declaration from a court that we do not infringe the proprietary rights of others or that their rights are invalid or unenforceable. If we do not prevail in any litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we would be required to stop the infringing activity (which could include a cessation of selling the products in question) or obtain a license for the proprietary rights involved. Any required license may be unavailable to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be nonexclusive and allow our competitors to access the same technology we license.. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design our products so as not to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we may be unable to sell some of our products, and this potential inability could have a material, adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.. 22. We may be involved in lawsuits relating to our intellectual property rights and promotional practices, which may be expensive.. To protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may have to initiate or defend legal proceedings, such as infringement suits or opposition proceedings, against or by third parties. In addition, we may have to institute proceedings regarding our competitors' promotional practices or defend proceedings regarding our promotional practices. Legal proceedings are costly, and, even if we prevail, the cost of the legal proceedings could affect our profitability. In addition, litigation is time-consuming and could divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Moreover, in response to our claims against other parties, those parties could assert counterclaims against us.. If we do not successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into our business operations, including Codman Neurosurgery and Derma Sciences, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. We will need to successfully integrate the operations of recently and pending acquired businesses, including our acquisitions of Codman Neurosurgery and Derma Sciences, with our business operations. The failure to integrate the business operations of the acquired businesses successfully would have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of these acquisitions, we will undergo substantial changes in a short period of time and our business will change and broaden in size and the scope of products we offer. Integrating the operations of multiple new businesses with that of our own is a complex, costly and time-consuming process, which requires significant management attention and resources, including the coordination of information technologies, sales and marketing, research and development, operations, manufacturing and finance functions. The integration process could disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, could preclude realization of the full benefits that we expect from these transactions. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the businesses in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Prior to each acquisition, the acquired business operated independently, with its own business, corporate culture, locations, employees and systems. There may be substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in any integration of other businesses with that of our own. These may include:. • distracting management from day-to-day operations;. • potential incompatibility of corporate cultures;. • an inability to achieve synergies as planned;. • risks associated with the assumption of contingent or other liabilities of acquisition targets;. • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or customers, including failure to retain key customers and suppliers;. • failure to retain key employees of our company and of the acquired businesses;. • inheriting and uncovering previously unknown issues, problems and costs from the acquired company;. • delays between our expenditures to acquire new products, technologies or businesses and the generation of revenues from those acquired products, technologies or businesses;. • realization of assets and settlement of liabilities at amounts equal to estimated fair value as of the acquisition date of any acquisition or disposition;. • an inability to integrate information technology systems of acquired businesses in a secure and reliable manner;. • costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures (including technology, compliance programs, financial systems, distribution and general business operations, among others);. • liabilities that are significantly larger than we currently anticipate and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisitions, including transition costs to integrate the businesses that may exceed the costs that we currently anticipate;. • challenges involved with the increased scale of our operations resulting from the acquisitions; and. • increased difficulties in managing our business due to the addition of international locations.. These risks may be heightened in cases where the majority of the former businesses' operations, employees and customers are located outside the U.S. Any one or all of these factors could increase operating costs or lower anticipated financial performance. Many of these factors are also outside of our control. In addition, dispositions of certain key products, technologies and other rights, including pursuant to conditions imposed on us to obtain regulatory approvals, may affect our business operations.. In connection with the acquisition of the Codman Neurosurgery business from Johnson & Johnson, we entered into certain transition services agreements with Johnson & Johnson under which they are providing certain manufacturing, distribution and other services to the Company for up to two years following the closing. Any interruption in, or inability of Johnson & Johnson to provide, these services for any reason could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Even if the operations of the businesses are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Additional unanticipated costs could be incurred in the integration of the businesses. All of these factors could cause a reduction to our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the transaction, and negatively impact the price of our ordinary shares.. 23. If any of our facilities were damaged and/or our manufacturing or business processes interrupted, we could experience lost revenues and our business could be seriously harmed.. Damage to our manufacturing, distribution, development and/or research facilities because of fire, extreme weather conditions, natural disaster, power loss, communications failure, unauthorized entry or other events, such as a flu or other health epidemic, could significantly disrupt our operations, the operations of suppliers and critical infrastructure and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace the damaged facilities. Our Añasco, Puerto Rico plant, where we manufacture collagen, silicone and our private-label products, is vulnerable to hurricane, storm, earthquake and wind damage. In September 2017, Hurricane Maria caused catastrophic damage and disruption to the infrastructure in Puerto Rico, including power, communications, water supply and transportation and to the operations of suppliers and service providers, some of which persists or has not been restored fully. While our Añasco plant sustained relatively minor damage from the impact of this hurricane and is fully operational, our ability to maintain sustainable operations at our Añasco plant depends on the restoration and reliability of the infrastructure and other essential services in Puerto Rico. In preparation for potential power outages, we have invested in diesel-powered generators at this plant to mitigate our exposure. Until such infrastructure and essential services are fully restored, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to sustain operations at full capacity at our Añasco plant. Our Plainsboro, New Jersey facility is vulnerable to hurricane damage. While we believe that our exposure to significant losses from such circumstances could be partially mitigated by our ability to manufacture, store, and distribute some of our products at other facilities, the losses could have a material, adverse effect on our business for an undetermined period of time before the transition is complete and operations resume without significant disruption. Although we maintain property damage and business interruption insurance coverage on these facilities, our insurance might not cover all losses under such circumstances, and we may not be able to renew or obtain such insurance in the future on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or at reasonable costs.. In addition, certain of our surgical instruments have some manufacturing processes performed by third parties in Pakistan, and we purchase a much smaller amount of instruments directly from vendors there. Pakistan is subject to political instability and unrest. Such instability could interrupt our ability to sell surgical instruments to our customers and could have a material, adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. While we have developed a relationship with an alternative provider of these services in another country, and continue to work to develop other providers in other countries, we cannot guarantee that we will be completely successful in establishing all of these relationships. Even if we are successful in establishing all of these alternative relationships, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so at the same level of costs or that we will be able to pass along additional costs to our customers.. Further, we manufacture certain products in Europe and our European headquarters is located in France, which has experienced labor strikes and acts of terrorism. Thus far, strikes and acts of terrorism have not had a material impact on our business; however, if either were to occur, there is no assurance that they would not disrupt our business, and any such disruption could have a material, adverse effect on our business.. An experienced third party hosts and maintains the enterprise business system used to support certain of our transaction processing for accounting and financial reporting, supply chain and manufacturing. Currently, we have developed a comprehensive disaster recovery plan for the Company's infrastructure. As we have not fully tested the plan, we have adopted alternative solutions to mitigate business risk, including backup equipment, power and communications. We also implemented a comprehensive backup and recovery process for our key applications. Our global production and distribution operations are dependent on the effective management of information flow between facilities. An interruption of the support provided by our enterprise business systems could have a material, adverse effect on the business.. We may experience difficulties, delays, performance impact or unexpected costs from consolidation of facilities.. We consolidated several facilities in recent years, and may further consolidate our operations in the future in order to improve our cost structure, achieve increased operating efficiencies, and improve our competitive standing or results of operations and/or to address unfavorable economic conditions. As part of these initiatives, we may also lose favorable tax incentives or not be able to renew leases on acceptable terms. We may further reduce staff, make changes to certain capital projects, close certain production operations and abandon leases for certain facilities that will not be used in our operations. In conjunction with any actions, we will continue to make significant investments and build the framework for our future growth. We may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits and savings from these efforts because of unforeseen difficulties, delays, implementation issues or unexpected costs. If we are unable to achieve or maintain all of the resulting savings or benefits to our business or other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We are exposed to a variety of risks relating to our international sales and operations, including fluctuations in exchange rates, local economic conditions and delays in collection of accounts receivable.. We generate significant revenues outside the U.S. in multiple foreign currencies, and in U.S. dollar-denominated transactions conducted with customers who generate revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For those foreign customers who purchase our products in U.S. dollars, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which those customers do business. 24. may have a negative impact on the demand for our products in foreign countries where the U.S. dollar has increased in value compared to the local currency.. Since we have operations based outside the U.S. and we generate revenues and incur operating expenses in multiple foreign currencies, we experience currency exchange risk with respect to those foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses. Our most significant currency exchange risk relates to transactions conducted in Australian dollars, British pounds, Canadian dollars, Chinese yuan, euros, Japanese yen, and Swiss francs.. We cannot predict the consolidated effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. Although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective. For a description of our use of derivative financial instruments, see Note 6, Derivative Instruments in our consolidated financial statements.. Our international operations subject us to laws regarding sanctioned countries, entities and persons, customs, import-export, laws regarding transactions in foreign countries, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local anti-bribery and other laws regarding interactions with healthcare professionals, and product registration requirements. Among other things, these laws restrict, and in some cases prevent, U.S. companies from directly or indirectly selling goods, technology or services to people or entities in certain countries. In addition, these laws require that we exercise care in structuring our sales and marketing practices and effecting product registrations in foreign countries.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (U.K.) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the E.U., commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" As a result of the referendum, the British government began negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s future relationship with the EU. Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the U.K. and EU. countries and increased regulatory complexities. Similarly, from time to time proposals are made in the U.S. to significantly change existing trade agreements and relationships between the U.S. and other countries, although we cannot currently predict whether or how these changes will be implemented. Changes to trade policy could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial results.. Local economic conditions, legal, regulatory or political considerations, disruptions from strikes, the effectiveness of our sales representatives and distributors, local competition, in-country reimbursement methodologies and changes in local medical practice could also affect our sales to foreign markets. Relationships with customers and effective terms of sale frequently vary by country, often with longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S.. Oversight of the medical device industry might affect the manner in which we may sell medical devices and compete in the marketplace.. There are laws and regulations that govern the means by which companies in the healthcare industry may market their products to healthcare professionals and may compete by discounting the prices of their products, including for example, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal False Claims Act, the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, state law equivalents to these federal laws that are meant to protect against fraud and abuse and analogous laws in foreign countries. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, but not limited to, in some instances civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Although we exercise care in structuring our sales and marketing practices and customer discount arrangements to comply with those laws and regulations, we cannot assure that:. • government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing those laws will not assert that our sales and marketing practices or customer discount arrangements are in violation of those laws or regulations; or. • government regulators or courts will interpret those laws or regulations in a manner consistent with our interpretation.. Correspondingly, federal and state laws are also sometimes open to interpretation, and from time to time we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage if our interpretation differs from that of our competitors. AdvaMed (for the U.S. and China), MedTech Europe (Europe), Mecomed (Middle East), and APACMed (Asia Pacific), some of the principal trade associations for the medical device industry, promulgate model codes of ethics that set forth standards by which its members should (and non-member companies may) abide in the promotion of their products. We have in place policies and procedures for compliance that we believe are at least as stringent as those set forth in the AdvaMed Code, and we regularly train our sales and marketing personnel on our policies regarding sales and marketing practices. Pursuant to the AdvaMed Code, we have certified our adoption of the AdvaMed Code. Nevertheless, the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from federal and state government agencies, and we believe that this trend will continue. Various hospital organizations, medical societies and trade associations are establishing their own practices that may require detailed disclosures of relationships between healthcare professionals and medical device companies or ban or restrict certain marketing and sales practices such as gifts and business meals.. 25. Our private-label product lines depend significantly on key relationships with third parties, which we could be unable to establish and maintain.. Our private-label business depends in part on our entering into and maintaining long-term supply agreements with third parties. The third parties with whom we have entered into agreements might terminate these agreements for a variety of reasons, including developing other sources for the products that we supply. Termination of our most important relationships could adversely affect our expectations for the growth of private-label products.. We may have significant product liability exposure and our insurance may not cover all potential claims.. We are exposed to product liability and other claims if our technologies or products are alleged to have caused harm. We may not be able to obtain insurance for the potential liability on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or at reasonable costs. Any potential product liability claims could exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of the policy. Our insurance may not be renewed at a cost and level of coverage comparable to that then in effect.. We are subject to requirements relating to hazardous materials which may impose significant compliance or other costs on us.. Our manufacturing, product development, research, and development operations and processes involve the controlled use of certain hazardous materials. In addition, we own and/or lease a number of facilities at which hazardous materials have been used in the past. Finally, we have acquired various companies that historically have used certain hazardous materials and that have owned and/or leased facilities at which hazardous materials have been used. For all of these reasons, we are subject to federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, transportation, handling, treatment, remediation, and disposal of hazardous materials and certain waste products (\"Environmental, Health, Safety and Transportation Laws\"). Although we believe that our procedures for handling, transporting, and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the Environmental, Health, Safety and Transportation Laws, the Environmental Health, Safety and Transportation Laws may be amended in ways that increase our cost of compliance, perhaps materially.. Furthermore, the potential risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated, and there is also a risk that such contamination previously has occurred in connection with one of our facilities or in connection with one of the companies we have purchased. In the event of such an accident or contamination, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any related liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance and could exceed our resources. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms or at all.. Cyber attacks or other disruptions to our information technology systems could adversely affect our business.. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our infrastructure and to support business decisions. As a result of technology initiatives, recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating our systems. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, and changing customer patterns. Any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption, or destruction of these systems, as well as any data breaches, could have a material, adverse effect on our business.. In addition, third parties may attempt to breach our systems and may obtain data relating to patients, the Company's proprietary information, or other sensitive data. If we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, suffer backlash from negative public relations, have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, or suffer other adverse consequences.. We have programs, processes and technologies in place to prevent, detect, contain, respond to and mitigate security related threats and potential incidents. We undertake considerable ongoing improvements to our systems, connected devices and information-sharing products in order to minimize vulnerabilities, in accordance with industry and regulatory standards. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently and can be difficult to detect, anticipating, identifying or preventing these intrusions or mitigating them if and when they occur, may be challenging.. We also rely on third party vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems. Third party systems may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could result in system disruption or unexpectedly. 26. compromise the information security of our own systems, and we are dependent on these third parties to provide reliable systems and software and to deploy appropriate security programs to protect their systems.. In addition, we continue to grow in part through new business acquisitions. As a result of acquisitions, we may face risks due to implementation, modification, or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies relating to data privacy and cybersecurity at the acquired business. We continue to consolidate and integrate the number of systems we operate, and to upgrade and expand our information system capabilities for stable and secure business operations.. If we are unable to maintain reliable information technology systems and prevent disruptions, outages, or data breaches, we may suffer regulatory consequences in addition to business consequences. Our worldwide operations mean that we are subject to laws and regulations, including data protection and cyber security laws and regulations, in many jurisdictions. The variety of U.S. and international privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations impacting our operations are described in \"Item 1. Business - Government Regulation - Other Factors - Data Privacy and Cybersecurity Laws and Regulations.\" We have programs to ensure compliance with such laws and regulations. However, there is no guarantee that we will avoid enforcement actions by governmental bodies. Enforcement actions may be costly and interrupt regular operations of our business. In addition, there has been a developing trend of civil lawsuits and class actions relating to breaches of consumer data held by large companies or incidents arising from other cyber attacks. While Integra has not been named in any such suits, if a substantial breach or loss of data were to occur, we could become a target of such litigation."
