[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We describe our business risk factors below. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Risks Related to Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We have a limited operating history and are substantially changing our business model, which makes it difficult for investors to evaluate our current business and future prospects.. We are substantially changing our business model while reducing our reliance on licensing and royalty revenues to achieve profitability, and we have not yet demonstrated that this new model can scale successfully.  Additionally, we do not have a long history of operating results on which you can base your evaluation of our business. As a result, it may be difficult for analysts and investors to evaluate our future prospects. Furthermore, because of our limited operating history under the new model and because we are seeking to grow revenue by addressing industries we have not previously engaged, such as automotive and special metal alloys, we have limited experience in analyzing and understanding the trends that may emerge and affect our business. If we are unable to obtain significant licensing and royalty revenue from products that use or incorporate our proprietary technology, whether developed for our customers under CDP-type programs or developed independently by the Company, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 8. Under our new business approach, we have a tiered engagement model with customers where royalties or license fees are not included in most levels of customer engagements, and we may not be able to achieve significant profitability without these fees.. While we continue to offer royalties and license fees as a component of our compensation to customers who may prefer a CDP-type program, our typical customer engagement no longer requires such fees and often does not include them.  Instead of relying upon future royalty payments to recover losses incurred in performing a project, we now seek appropriate compensation primarily through program services fees [that are charged upon completion of certain projects or milestones, in each case as contracted with the relevant customer,] and, upon occasion, the payment of one time success fees or commercialization fees when the details of the engagement permit them (for example, when the engagement requires use of our background technology in our customer's end product).  In an effort to further improve our profitability and mitigate the potential loss of royalty revenue due to forgoing our prior CDP model, we are independently developing advanced materials for licensing.  However, our new business model may not yield the level of profitability expected of our prior CDP model.. Under our new business model, customer engagements are typically 6 to 12 months in duration and maintaining and growing the business requires substantially more marketing and business development resources than under the CDP model.  If we cannot begin new customer engagements as old customer engagements are ending, our revenues may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter.. Under our new business model, customer engagements typically involve a multi-year umbrella agreement under which our customer may have multiple active projects and can easily add new projects, if desired.  Most projects are 6 to 12 months in duration.  While our new approach has reduced our typical sales cycle for new customer engagements from 9 to 24 months to 3 to 12 months, the lack of multi-year projects requires a robust sales pipeline of customers to ensure that new projects begin as current projects end.  Given the importance of current projects to our customers, it can be difficult to focus a customer on the next project in a timely manner in order to secure it without a gap between the end of one project and the beginning of the next.  Also, customers may have no further need for us once a particular project ends.  As a result of these changes to our business model, our reported backlog will likely be substantially reduced, and the success of our business will depend largely on our ability to constantly grow and refresh our sales opportunities.. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance.. Our revenue, expenses and operating results have fluctuated, and may in the future continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may contribute to these fluctuations include the following, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K:. •  our dependence on a limited number of customers;. •  the nature and length of our sales cycles for customer engagements, which make it difficult to predict the timing of new or expanded customer engagements;. •  the additional development required by our customers to integrate technology developed under our prior CDPs (\"CDP Technology\") into their products, which makes it difficult to predict the timeframe in which CDP Technology will be available for commercialization;. •  fluctuations in the volume and prices of products manufactured and sold by our customers that use or incorporate technology developed under our CDPs (\"CDP Products\") and that generate licensing and royalty revenue for us;. •  our revenue mix, which may vary from quarter to quarter as (i) we enter into new customer arrangements; (ii) existing customer engagements, particularly for significant customers, are completed, extended, contracted or undergo a change in scope; (iii) licensing arrangements take effect; and/or (iv) we enter into IP sale transactions;. •  the highly cyclical nature of and price volatility in the semiconductor industry;. 9. •  the financial stability of any of our customers;. •  the timing and extent to which we enter into new customer engagements or complete, extend the duration, expand the scope or reduce the duration or scope of existing customer engagements;. •  non-cash charges relating to stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, write-down expenses related to inventory, and impairment expenses related to long-lived assets and our IP portfolio;. •  any involvement in significant litigation, and in particular IP litigation;. •  timing of our receipt of revenue under contracts included in backlog;. •  any payments resulting from our IP indemnification policies and obligations;. •  any need for significant additional capital to finance our business;. •  any delay in shipments caused by shortages of components used or incorporated in program services, design errors, manufacturing problems, or other difficulties or delays in completing contracted results; and. •  business interruptions such as power outages, earthquakes and other natural disasters.. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of these or other factors may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have incurred operating losses since our inception and may not be able to achieve or maintain sustained profitability. We have generated net losses each year since our inception, including $10.4 million, $15.4 million and $21.0 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2017 was $178.7 million. We will need to significantly increase revenue and operating margins to achieve sustained profitability, which we may not be able to accomplish.. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability will depend, in large part, on our success in transitioning to our new business model, as well as the other risk factors in this Item 1A.. We may be unable to achieve broad customer acceptance of our HPC platform and approach as an alternative to conventional research and development activities.. Historically, semiconductor companies have conducted R&D activities internally using conventional research methods, and they have vigorously protected the confidentiality of their R&D activities. In order for us to increase revenue, we must convince these companies that our technology and capabilities justify collaborating with us on their basic R&D programs. This may require us to make significant investments in the expansion of our sales and marketing efforts. We must also convince potential customers in industries outside of the semiconductor industry that our HPC platform and approach are useful tools in their field. We may not achieve the levels of customer acceptance necessary for us to maintain and grow a profitable business. Failure to achieve the necessary customer acceptance to extend or add current or new customer relationships would adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. We depend on a limited number of customers, and a loss of any of them, or a significant reduction in revenue from any of them, would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our customer base is highly concentrated. Revenue has historically come from a few customers, and we expect that revenue from a small number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future.  Our three largest customers accounted for 79% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, 65% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, and 65% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015.. 10. For each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, our largest customer during such year accounted for 57%, 38% and 36% of our revenue, respectively, and as of December 31, 2017, our largest customer accounted for 72% of our account receivables. Our concentration of customers is somewhat a reflection of the concentrated nature of manufacturers in the DRAM, flash memory and complex logic markets, and our revenue is and may continue to be heavily reliant on key high-volume customers. The loss of any of these customers or a decrease or delay in the manufacturing or sales volumes of the program services, or a renegotiation of any licensing or royalty revenue owed to us by our customers, or their failure to pay amounts due to us or renew, extend or maintain their existing relationships with us, and the related impact on our future anticipated licensing and royalty revenue, would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we may not be able to replace the business from these customers. Additionally, any significant decrease in revenue from one or more key customers may require reductions in our employee workforce, which could reduce our ability to grow as well as expose us to an increased risk of employment and labor claims against us.. As an example, in June 2016, our customer Micron opted not to renew further development work related to DRAM and NVM under its CDP with us, and this resulted in a reduction in the scope of R&D activities and associated revenue in 2016 and Guardian notified us they would not extend the term of our CDP with them after their scheduled contract expiration on January 31, 2017 which had an adverse impact on our revenue in 2017. If additional customers do not renew their contracts with us, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, subject to significant downturns, price volatility, and other dynamics that make the industry very unpredictable. These factors can have a material adverse impact on our business both directly, and indirectly through the impact on our customers in the industry.. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has been subject to significant economic downturns at various times, characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated erosion of average selling prices and production overcapacity. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints. The timing and length of these cycles is extremely difficult to predict, which makes it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions and identify risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the semiconductor industry has historically experienced price volatility. Because the substantial majority of our revenue comes from customers in the semiconductor industry, we may experience significant fluctuations in operating results due to the cyclicality and price volatility of the industry.. The industry has also been affected in recent years by uncertainty in the credit markets. In addition, future  uncertainty may cause sudden changes in our customers' manufacturing capacity requirements and spending, which depend in part on capacity utilization, demand for products using or incorporating our technology by consumers, inventory levels relative to demand, and access to affordable capital.. Industry consolidation (including but not limited to the transition of semiconductor manufacturing to foundries and large-scale manufacturers, and the subsequent concentration of research and innovation in manufacturing process development) has increased in recent years, and we may continue to see consolidation in the future. This will likely result in fewer small companies, and more large companies with greater financial resources - companies that may be less likely to become our customers than smaller companies with more limited R&D resources. Furthermore, if any of our CDP customers are acquired, the acquirer may not continue to engage in a CDP with us or may choose to focus its product development and commercialization on technologies not covered by our CDP.. If we are unable to scale our development services to accommodate new customer engagements, our growth prospects would be limited and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We have limited space and internal capacity, both in terms of personnel as well as capital equipment resources, to meet new demands from our customers. If the demand for our services and products exceeds our capacity to meet such demand, we may be required to turn down potential opportunities, which would cause us to lose potential revenue, and our potential customers may take their business to a competitor or decide to develop or expand internal R&D capabilities. If we are unable to scale our development services to meet demand, our future growth may be hindered and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. 11. We may be unable to make the substantial R&D investments required to remain competitive in our business.. The industries we serve require substantial investment in R&D to develop and bring to market new and enhanced technologies and products. To remain competitive, we anticipate that we will need to continue to increase our levels of R&D expenditures to keep pace with the development efforts of our customers. We are continually working to develop and broaden our HPC platform, including our software and informatics capabilities, to address a wider range of markets and customers for multiple applications within our target markets. This is an extremely complex and costly process. We expect R&D expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future, due to the increasing complexity and number of platforms and solutions we plan to develop both for our customers and internally, the expansion of our customer base, and any associated increase in upfront R&D costs. If we are unable to build new systems, or configure, modify, expand or customize our existing systems for these fields and develop our expertise to support these fields, our business growth might be limited, and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Although we are making progress in certain fields of technology, we have limited expertise and experience in other fields. We may be required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our R&D efforts. If we are unable to develop expertise or experience in these fields, or if the investment of our resources in these fields is unsuccessful, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our strategy includes conducting proprietary R&D efforts in collaboration with and on behalf of multiple customers. Any failure on our part to adequately protect against potential conflicts of interest and breaches of confidentiality by us would harm our reputation and our relationships with our customers, and our business prospects and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, some customers may hesitate to grant us access to their proprietary information, which could impair our ability to provide value for such customers.. Our strategy includes conducting proprietary R&D efforts in collaboration with and on behalf of customers who in some cases may have overlapping interests and technologies. We seek to structure our collaborative agreements and business practices to minimize any potential conflicts among customers and the possibility of any breaches of confidentiality. We may need access to some of our customers' proprietary information, and they may be reluctant to share it with us because of the risk of a potential conflict between us and/or our customers and other potential customers and the risk of a breach of confidentiality. In an effort to address these significant potential conflicts of interest and confidentiality concerns, we have implemented internal restrictions on resource and information sharing. However, we cannot ensure that our existing and potential customers will perceive these measures to be adequate and effective, or that they will be, in all circumstances. Our failure to adequately and effectively address these concerns could result in our inability to attract new customers or retain existing customers, or lead to our having incomplete information with respect to existing customers that could impair our ability to fully address the customers' needs and demonstrate the value of our technology to the customers. Even though we make significant efforts to isolate each development activity from other development activities, we may fail to meet our contractual confidentiality commitments to one or more customers. Moreover, even if we meet these commitments, conflicts of interest between a customer and us, or between or among customers, could nevertheless arise. In either event, we may become involved in a dispute with our customers regarding the solutions developed during the collaboration or the rights to these solutions, including possible litigation. Disputes of this nature could harm the relationship between us and our customers, have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain and to enter into new customer engagements, and cause our revenue and operating results to decline significantly.. Our business strategy requires us to evaluate, integrate and develop elements of our customers' value chains, including development and manufacturing processes. Our ability to evaluate these effectively may sometimes depend on the cooperation from our customers' materials suppliers and equipment manufacturers as well as access to their data and tools. If these third parties do not cooperate with us or provide us access to the necessary data, materials, tools or equipment, we may not be able to deliver effective solutions to our customers, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We have to evaluate multiple elements of our customers' value chains to help them test and develop end products that meet their specifications, including the materials, tools and equipment used by them during the manufacturing process. Our ability to evaluate a customer's value chain effectively may sometimes depend on. 12. cooperation from such customer's materials suppliers and equipment manufacturers and on access to their data and tools. Our evaluation of the materials and equipment in the value chain must be unbiased to maintain credibility with our customers, and our evaluation sometimes results in recommendations that our customers change materials and tools providers or equipment manufacturers. Our recommendations may negatively impact our relationships with materials and tools providers and equipment manufacturers. Tensions in our relationships with these providers and manufacturers may cause these parties to limit or deny our access to their newest materials and equipment, which would in turn limit our ability to complete our development activities with our customers or control the quality of the combinatorial methods applied to our development efforts on their behalf, which would adversely affect our business and operations.. Our future growth may present challenges to our management and administrative systems and resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In order to successfully expand our business we will need to grow in all operational areas and to successfully integrate new employees. In particular, we expect growth as we expand our R&D capacity for current and additional customer engagements. The expansion of our business may place a strain on our management, as well as our operational systems and facilities, which may make it difficult for us to implement our business strategy. We have experienced employment and labor claims against us by our employees in the past, and we may experience such claims in the future.. To effectively manage our operations and any future growth, we must continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, legal, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. If we are unable to implement these enhancements efficiently, effectively and quickly, we will not be able to successfully grow our business in the future. Our future operating results will also depend on our management's ability to:. •  improve our sales, marketing and customer support programs;. •  improve our R&D efforts;. •  enhance our operational and financial control systems;. •  expand, train and manage our employee base and promptly replace departing employees with key skills; and. •  effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise.. We may not manage our expansion successfully, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Acquisitions, strategic investments, joint ventures or strategic asset sales may harm our business and operating results, cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities, or dilute our stockholders.. We have made and may in the future make strategic investments, acquisitions, asset sales, or enter into joint ventures with third parties where there is an opportunity to expand the potential applications and reach of our capabilities, including our HPC platform. Exploring and implementing any investments, acquisitions, asset sales or joint ventures may place strain upon our ability to manage our future growth and may divert management attention from our core businesses. There are also other risks associated with this strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make investments, acquire businesses or sell assets on satisfactory terms, that any business acquired by us or in which we invest will be integrated successfully into our operations or be able to operate profitably, or that we will be able to realize any expected growth, synergies or benefits from such investments, acquisitions, sales or joint ventures.. Our relative inexperience in effecting such transactions heightens these risks. In addition, to finance any acquisitions, investments or joint ventures, we may utilize our existing funds, or might need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings. We may be unable to obtain financing to fund future acquisitions or investments on attractive terms, or at all. Additionally, equity financings may result in dilution to our stockholders. We cannot predict the number, timing or size of investments, acquisitions or joint ventures, or the effect that any such transactions might have on our operating results.. 13. We may need additional capital in the future to finance our business.. Our future capital requirements may be substantial as we continue to develop our business and expand our collaborative development efforts. In particular, we may be required to raise additional capital if we choose to expand our business through strategic investments or acquisitions. Our need for additional capital will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, our expansion of our sales and marketing activities and overhead expenses, the timing and extent of our spending to support our R&D efforts and our ability to expand customer engagements in the semiconductor and clean energy industries, whether we are successful in obtaining anticipated levels of payments from customers, the financial stability of our customers, whether we can enter into additional collaborations in our target industries and markets, the progress and scope of collaborative R&D projects performed by us and our customers, the effect of any acquisitions of other businesses or technologies that we may make in the future, the filing, prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of patent claims, how much we need to develop or enhance our solutions or HPC platform, and any necessary responses to competitive pressures.. If our capital resources are insufficient to meet our capital requirements, and our revenue is insufficient to support any of these activities, then we will have to raise additional funds. If future financings involve the issuance of equity securities, our then-existing stockholders may suffer dilution. If we raise additional future debt financing, we may be subject to restrictive covenants, which would further limit our ability to conduct our business. We may not be able to raise sufficient funds on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. If we fail to raise sufficient funds and continue to incur losses, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of strategic opportunities, develop products or technologies or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited. If this happens, we may be forced to delay or terminate R&D programs, curtail or cease operations, obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we may not be able to successfully execute our business plan or continue our business.. If we lose one or more of our key personnel without obtaining adequate replacements in a timely manner, or if we are unable to retain and recruit skilled personnel, our operations could become disrupted and the growth of our business could be delayed or restricted.. Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team. None of our senior management is bound by written employment contracts to remain with us for a specified period. The loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. Upon hiring or promotion, new senior management personnel must spend a significant amount of time learning our technology, business model and management systems and their new roles, in addition to performing their regular duties.. Accordingly, we may experience disruption to our ongoing operations. Moreover, the loss of a member of our senior management or our professional staff would require the remaining management to divert attention to seeking a replacement.. Our future success and competitiveness depends on our ability to retain and motivate our unique team of highly skilled scientists and engineers, and to recruit and hire similarly qualified replacements for any who leave the company. These scientists and engineers have expertise across various disciplines, fields and technologies, including engineering, materials science, process development and integration, equipment, device process technologies and device integration. In addition, as we grow, we will have to continue to retain, attract and motivate qualified and talented personnel, including our scientists and engineers, management, sales and marketing and legal and finance personnel. The loss of key scientists or engineers or other personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to deliver results to a customer in a timely manner or at all. We do not know whether we will be able to retain all of these employees or hire appropriate replacements for any who leave the company, as we continue to pursue our business strategy. Competition for personnel is intense in the Silicon Valley.. We may encounter difficulties in hiring qualified scientists and engineers because there is a limited pool of scientists and engineers with the specialized expertise required to understand and implement our platform in conjunction with our customers. Further, we may have difficulty or delays in obtaining visas permitting entry for some of our employees who are foreign nationals into the United States, and in obtaining visas permitting entry into. 14. other key countries for several of our key personnel, which could disrupt our ability to strategically locate our personnel. The loss of the services of key employees or our inability to retain, attract and motivate qualified scientists and engineers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.. Competition in our markets may intensify in the future, which could slow our ability to grow or execute our strategy and could lead to increased pricing pressure, negatively impacting our revenue and ability to attain and maintain profitability. Our current and potential customers may choose to develop their own methods to accelerate R&D activities, including their own combinatorial development methods, particularly if we are slow in developing or deploying our solutions or improving them to meet market needs. We currently face indirect competition from the internal R&D groups of our current and potential customers, particularly those of our customers who work with us to develop knowledge of combinatorial methods and who may then use our methods independently. They often compete with each other and with us in various applications. Our customers are generally much larger and have significantly greater resources than us. We also face indirect competition from university collaborations, consortia and alliance partnerships. In addition, there may be other providers of high-throughput or combinatorial solutions for the design of and accelerating R&D relating to integrated devices of which we are not aware, and there may be new entrants to the industry in the future, particularly if acceptance of these solutions grows. In addition, we believe that the demand for solutions that address the need for better integration between the design and manufacturing processes may encourage direct competitors to enter into our market. Other potential competitors include fabrication facilities that may decide to offer solutions competitive with ours as part of their value proposition to their customers. If these potential competitors change the pricing environment or are able to attract industry partners or customers faster than we can, we may not be able to grow and execute our strategy as quickly or at all.. Compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could increase costs or cause us to incur substantial liabilities.. We are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing emissions and discharges of hazardous materials into the air and water; the use, generation, storage, handling, transportation and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials and wastes; remediation of contamination; and employee health and safety. In addition, under certain of these environmental laws, liability can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. Our operations involve the use of hazardous materials and produce hazardous waste, and we could become liable for any injury or contamination that could arise due to such use or disposal of these materials. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could result in the imposition of substantial civil and criminal fines and sanctions, could require operational changes or limits or the installation of costly equipment or otherwise lead to third party claims. Future environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, or the discovery of previously unknown contamination or violations of such laws and regulations could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities, which could impair our operations and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Global or regional economic, political and social conditions and foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world and are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. In particular, we are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in global economic conditions. Global economic uncertainties in the key markets of many of our customers may cause our customers to delay or reduce R&D and technology purchases and investments. The impact of this on us is difficult to predict, but if businesses require fewer program services, or if consumers defer purchases of new products that use or incorporate technology developed under our program services and CDPs, our revenue could decline. A decline in revenue would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition.. 15. In addition, some of our largest customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Also, a substantial portion of the consumer products market that serves as the end-market for the products we help our customers to develop is located in Asia. As a result, our operations are subject to substantial influence by political and economic conditions. Reduced end user demand as well as disruptions to the supply chain for our customers resulting from these or other events could lead to a reduction in our revenue and an adverse impact on our financial condition. Our licensing and royalty revenue is derived from sales of products that use or incorporate technology developed under our CDPs. To the extent that sales for these products are denominated in U.S. dollars, the currency conversion and foreign exchange laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we do business may delay or preclude us from receiving payment from our customers, which would have an adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Additionally, to the extent that sales for these customer products are denominated in a foreign currency, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to such foreign currencies could also adversely affect our licensing and royalty revenue irrespective of the volume of such products sold, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We expect that a significant portion of our total future revenue will continue to be derived from companies based in foreign countries. If the U.S. dollar increases in value relative to the currencies in any of these countries, the cost of our program services and CDPs, which have historically been billed in U.S. dollars, will be more expensive to existing and potential customers in those countries, which could adversely affect our ability to generate new or expand existing program services and CDPs.. We are also subject to general geopolitical risks in connection with international operations, such as political, social, and economic instability, terrorism, interference with information or communication of networks or systems, potential hostilities, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and disease outbreaks, and any disruptive effect these events would have on our business operations. For example, an imposition of economic sanctions by the U.S. government against the Russian Federation may have an adverse impact on our ability to do further business with one of our current customers, Ulyanovsk Center for Technology Transfer of the Russian Federation. Although to date we have not experienced any material adverse effect on our operations as a result of these types of factors, we cannot assure investors that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results or require us to modify our current business practices. Inconsistencies among, and unexpected changes in, a wide variety of foreign laws and regulatory environments with which we are not familiar, including, among other issues, with respect to employees, currency controls, foreign exchange, protection of our intellectual property, and a wide variety of operational regulations and trade and export controls under domestic, foreign, and international law may also have unexpected, adverse impacts on our operations and financial condition.. Business interruptions could delay or prevent our business activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to significant damage from earthquakes. We are also vulnerable to other types of natural disasters and other events that could disrupt our operations, such as cybersecurity breaches, terrorist acts and other events that may be beyond our control. We do not carry insurance for earthquakes and we may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our business can be interrupted by a number of factors, including unexpected repairs and maintenance at our San Jose facility. Our business can also be impacted if our customers experience business interruptions as a result of natural disasters or other disruptive events. Any losses or damages we or our customers incur could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and success as an overall business.. Our customers may not be successful in commercializing products that use or incorporate technology and IP developed under our CDPs with them.. While CDPs are no longer the focus of our customer engagement strategy, we continue to offer CDP-type programs for customers who prefer this model.  However, we may not achieve significant revenue or profitability from a CDP-type program if the project to which we have devoted technology and significant resources fails to produce any measurable success or value to our customers in the form of differentiated technology and IP.. 16. Further, even if we are successful in developing valuable technology for our CDP customers, they still face significant challenges in commercializing products that use or incorporate the technology. The markets for products related to our CDPs are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change. These changes result in frequent product introductions, short product life cycles and the necessity of continually increasing product capabilities. We cannot assure you that our CDP customers will dedicate the resources necessary to successfully execute their business strategies for these products. Our CDP customers are not contractually obligated to us to make or sell any CDP Products. They may not have the financial strength to cost-effectively manufacture the CDP Products at high volume and in quantities sufficient to meet demand, or the competitiveness to price, market and sell the CDP Products in intensely competitive markets. They may experience delays in shipments caused by shortages of components incorporated in the CDP Products, design errors or other manufacturing problems associated with the CDP Products. A decline in demand or average selling prices in the end markets for CDP Products could result in declining sales revenue for our customers and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any failure of a customer to achieve market success for CDP Products could also negatively affect the customer's willingness to work with us on other collaborations and could more generally harm our reputation and business prospects. Even if a CDP customer is able to successfully commercialize a CDP Product, there may be a significant delay before we receive any licensing or royalty revenue due to the complexities inherent in production and manufacturing in our customers' target markets.. Existing and potential CDP customers may be resistant to paying license and royalty fees, and we may face challenges in monitoring and enforcing royalty agreements with existing customers.. Our royalty-bearing licenses with our CDP customers lay the framework for ongoing royalty revenue from CDP Products. Although our R&D activities under CDPs generate revenue for us, in order to achieve profitability we must be able to structure, negotiate and enforce agreements for the calculation and payment of higher-margin license and royalty revenue. Unless we adequately demonstrate the value of our platform to our customers and potential customers, we may face resistance to structuring royalty arrangements in the future that are acceptable to us, or our customers and our potential customers may not agree to enter into royalty-bearing licenses with us at all.. If we are able to negotiate royalty-bearing agreements, we will need to rely on our customers to make royalty payments on a timely basis. Licensing and royalty revenue we may receive in the future may be based on sales of CDP Products. In order to accurately report our financial results on a timely basis, we will need to receive timely, complete and accurate information from our customers regarding their sales and resulting payments they owe us.. If the information that we receive is not timely, complete or accurate, we may not receive the full amount of revenue to which we are entitled under these arrangements on a timely basis, which could result in adjustments to our financial results in a future period. Although we typically have audit rights with these customers, performing this type of audit could be harmful to our collaborative relationships, expensive and time-consuming and may not be sufficient to reveal any discrepancies in a timeframe consistent with our financial reporting requirements.. If a CDP to which we have devoted technology and significant resources fails to produce any measurable success or value to our customer in the form of differentiated technology and intellectual property that our customer can successfully commercialize, we may not earn licensing and royalty revenue sufficient to recover our upfront investment in the CDP, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. As discussed above, while CDPs are no longer the focus of our customer engagement strategy, we continue to offer CDP-type programs to customers who prefer the CDP model.  Under the CDP model, we are compensated with program revenues during the development stage, and we are owed royalties or success fees upon the successful commercialization of Program technology. The program revenue we receive from our customers during the development stage often is not sufficient for us to fully recover our costs and cash invested in HPC platforms dedicated to customer engagements, and the CDP business model relies on licensing and royalty revenue based on the sales by our customers in the end-markets of CDP Products. Our CDPs involve complex R&D, and our ability to develop the differentiated technology and intellectual property sought by our customers is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict, as is our customers' ability to commercialize such technology in a timely manner. If a CDP fails to produce any measurable value to a customer, or if we are otherwise not successful in maintaining and managing a CDP, we may not receive sufficient amounts of licensing and royalty revenue to recover our upfront investment in the CDP.   Even if we are successful in delivering CDP Technology that a customer is able to commercialize, we. 17. will need to rely on our customers to bring the CDP Technology to market and to make royalty payments on a timely basis. Some of our CDP agreements include provisions that require minimum annual royalty payments to maintain exclusivity, and a customer may elect to forego such minimum payments and exclusivity, for example, if commercialization of the CDP Technology is delayed or uncertain.  Licensing and royalty revenue we may receive in the future may be based on sales of CDP Products. In order to accurately report our financial results on a timely basis, we will need to receive timely, complete and accurate information from our customers regarding their sales and resulting payments they owe us. If the information that we receive is not timely, complete or accurate, we may not receive the full amount of revenue to which we are entitled under these arrangements on a timely basis, which could result in adjustments to our financial results in a future period. Although we typically have audit rights with these customers, performing this type of audit could be harmful to our collaborative relationships, expensive and time-consuming and may not be sufficient to reveal any discrepancies in a timeframe consistent with our financial reporting requirements.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income, and our ability to use our tax credit carryforwards, may be subject to certain limitations.. In general, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) to offset future taxable income and its ability to utilize tax credit carryforwards. As of December 31, 2017, we reported U.S. federal NOLs of approximately $67.0 million.  In general, an \"ownership change\" occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders (generally, 5% shareholders, applying certain aggregation and look-through rules) increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally, three years).. We experienced an ownership change on 12/31/2014 and utilization of NOL carryforwards will therefore be subject to annual limitation, pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 382. Our ability to use our remaining NOL carryforwards may be further limited if we experience a Section 382 ownership change in connection with future changes in our stock ownership.. Recent U.S. tax legislation and future changes to applicable U.S. or foreign tax laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Changes in laws and policy relating to taxes or trade may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the U.S. government recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may adversely affect us. Changes include, but are not limited to, a federal corporate tax rate decrease from 34% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a more generally territorial system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, and will be subject to interpretations and implementing regulations by the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service, any of which could mitigate or increase certain adverse effects of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation. Generally, future changes in applicable U.S. or foreign tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application could have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. Specific Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property. We may be unable to effectively protect or monetize our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete.. We depend on our proprietary HPC platform for our success and ability to compete. If others are able to reproduce our technology, our business will suffer significantly unless we can prevent them from competing with us. As of December 31, 2017, we owned or had exclusive licenses to 476 U.S. patents and patent applications (some of which also have foreign counterparts), which we believe protect our rights in our HPC platform and our rights in the technology developed internally and under our customer engagements. While we have been filing patent applications to seek protection for the further advancements of our HPC platform, patent laws provide only limited. 18. protection. Furthermore, we may not be able to sustain the high rate of patenting we maintained in the previous three years due to the expense and resource-intensiveness of the patenting process. Finally, we actively manage our patent portfolio and regularly discontinue pursuing patent protection for inventions we believe are not or will not be commercially relevant or significant, and we could be mistaken in our judgments about which patents are valuable and which are not.. For these and other reasons, we cannot assure you that we have sought or that we will seek patent protection of all our rights in our HPC platform and our rights in the technology developed internally and under our customer engagements in all jurisdictions. We also cannot assure you that all maintenance fees have been paid or that all filings have been made with the appropriate regulatory or governmental authorities with respect to any IP rights (including patents) registered or applied for outside of the U.S. In addition, patent protection in foreign countries may be limited or unavailable where we need this type of protection.. The patent positions of technology companies, including ours, are often uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents, or are effectively maintained as trade secrets or other forms of legal protection. We apply for patents covering our HPC platform and further advancements of our HPC platform as we deem appropriate. However, we may not obtain patents on all inventions for which we seek patents. Further, any patent claims we file for may be challenged during prosecution or any patent claims we are issued may be challenged after issuance. This may result in the claims being narrowed in scope or extinguished as a result of these challenges. Additional uncertainty may result from the recent and ongoing consideration and passage of patent reform legislation by the United States Congress, legal precedent as handed down by the United States Federal Circuit and Supreme Court as they determine legal issues concerning the scope and construction of patent claims, and inconsistent interpretation of patent laws by the lower courts. For these reasons, among others, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently effective in preventing others from practicing our technologies or from developing similar or superior products. In that case, our revenue and operating results could decline.. Historically, our customer engagement strategy included obtaining patent protection for technology developed for our customers under CDPs, and a portion of our revenue from our CDP customers derives from the licenses granted by us to our customers under these patents. In certain instances our ability to obtain patent protection may require customer approval. If the customer does not provide its approval, we cannot proceed with patent protection and the technology will be subject to trade secret protection only. If we are unable to obtain patent protection, we would not be able to enforce patent rights to the technologies in question.  While the CDP model remains available to customers who prefer it, our baseline customer engagement strategy no longer includes a patent licensing component but instead relies upon program services fees.. In most instances, with respect to patents obtained for technology developed in collaboration with our customers, we grant our customers an exclusive license within a specific field-of-use under these patents thus reserving for us the right to grant licenses to third parties outside such field-of-use.  In some cases, our customers must pay minimum annual royalties to maintain exclusivity, and the failure to make such minimum payments results in the license becoming non-exclusive. While a license is exclusive, we cannot grant licenses to third parties within the customer's exclusive field-of-use and may not be able to grant such third party licenses outside the field-of-use, which would not allow us to realize additional revenue from licensing such patents.. We have developed in the past, and may develop in the future, patented technology with U.S. federal government funding. When new technologies are developed with U.S. government funding, the government obtains certain rights in any resulting patents, including a nonexclusive license authorizing the government to use the invention for non-commercial purposes. These rights may permit the government to disclose our confidential information to third parties and to exercise \"march-in\" rights to use or allow third parties to use our patented technology. The government can exercise its march-in rights if it determines that action is necessary because we fail to achieve practical application of the U.S. government-funded technology, because action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations, or to give preference to U.S. industry. In addition, U.S. government-funded technology may be subject to restrictions on transfer to foreign entities, and some U.S. government-funded data may be subject to public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act.. 19. Many of our customers and competitors have significant operations outside the United States. However, foreign laws may not afford us sufficient protections for our intellectual property, and we may not always seek patent protection outside the United States. We believe that our success depends, in part, upon our ability to obtain international protection for our IP rights. However, the laws and judicial systems of some foreign countries may not be as comprehensive as those of the United States and may not be sufficient to protect or enforce our proprietary rights abroad. Accordingly, our international competitors could obtain foreign patent protection for, and market overseas, products and technologies for which we are seeking patent protection in the United States, and may also be able to successfully enforce such patents in such foreign countries against us or against our customers.. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosures of trade secrets and other proprietary information.. We rely in part on confidentiality and trade secret protection to protect our confidential and proprietary information and processes. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, but these measures may not be effective. We require new employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual's relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that all rights in and to the inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be assigned to us. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose or misuse our confidential information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect such information or our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent information or techniques or otherwise lawfully gain access to our trade secrets, and thereafter communicate this information to others without maintaining its confidentiality. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection or enforce our trade secrets could adversely affect our competitive business position.. Significant litigation over intellectual property in the industry may cause us to become involved in costly and lengthy litigation, which could subject us to liability, require us to stop licensing our developed technology or force us to develop new technology.. Whether or not patents are granted to us, litigation may be necessary to enforce our IP rights, to defend against a claim of infringement of IP rights of others or to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others. Because infringement is a fact-intensive inquiry, and because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing (or, in some cases, are not published until they issue as patents), we cannot be certain that we do not now, and will not in the future, infringe a third party's patent rights. We may also become party to claims by our customers to IP rights developed by us in connection with a CDP. If our customers become involved in disputes with third parties over allegations that our customers' practice of our IP rights infringes the IP rights of such third parties, it may also become necessary for us to become involved in such disputes.. Any claim, even if without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, or require us to enter into licensing agreements, resulting in unexpected operating costs and reduction in our operating profit. Moreover, our opponents in any litigation may have significantly more resources with which to defend against or assert claims in the litigation. A successful claim of infringement against us in connection with the use of our technologies could force us to stop using our technologies that incorporate the infringed IP; pay substantial monetary damages or royalties; grant cross-licenses to third parties relating to our own IP; obtain a license from the owner of the infringed IP, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all; or re-engineer our platform or products to avoid further IP infringement, which may be technically impossible or commercially infeasible. The occurrence of any of these eventualities could adversely affect our business. Even if we are successful in defending such a claim, litigation could also divert our resources, including our managerial and engineering resources. Any infringement claim or other litigation against or by us could have a material negative effect on our business.. 20. Our intellectual property indemnification policies and obligations may adversely impact our business and operating results.. A third party asserting ownership or other rights to technology developed under our customer engagements could result in our customers becoming the target of litigation, and we may be bound to indemnify our customers under the terms of our license agreements. These obligations could result in substantial expenses to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the time and expense required for us to satisfy our support and indemnification obligations to our customers, any litigation could severely disrupt or shut down the business of our customers, which in turn could damage our relations with them and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile, which may cause the value of our common stock to decline and subject us to securities class action litigation.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of early stage companies have historically been particularly volatile. The stock markets in general have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected, and continue to affect, the market prices of equity securities of many companies. A portion of most future fluctuations in our stock price will likely be related to the risk factors described in this section. However, price fluctuations may be disproportionate, or even unrelated, to our operating performance. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have become subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Factors that could contribute to volatility in our stock price include but are not limited to the following:. •  fluctuations in our financial results or outlook, or those of our customers or of companies perceived to be similar to us;. •  changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts;. •  changes in market valuations of similar companies;. •  changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurring of debt;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances;. •  litigation involving us, our general industry or both;. •  additions or departures of key personnel;. •  regulatory developments in the U.S., countries in Asia, and/or other foreign countries;. •  significant fluctuations in daily trading volume of our stock due to selling of large blocks of stock by significant stockholders;. •  investors' general perception of us; and. •  general economic and political conditions in the U.S. and globally, such as recessions, interest rate changes and international currency fluctuations.. The bid price of our common stock closed below $1.00 per share on multiple days during 2017, and we cannot assure investors that we will be able to remain in compliance with the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market.. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, and as such, is subject to various requirements for continued listing under the rules of the Nasdaq Stock Market (the Listing Rules), including the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement set forth in Rule 5450(a)(1) of the Listing Rules (the Bid Price Requirement).  Under Rule 5810(c)(3)(A) of the Listing Rules, we will be found in violation of the Bid Price Requirement if the bid price of our common stock closes below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days.. 21. Though the Listing Rules generally provide for a cure period of 180 days (which may be extended for an additional 180 days under certain circumstances), our common stock would ultimately be subject to delisting if we were unable to regain compliance with the Bid Price Requirement within the applicable cure period.  Though we have not violated the Bid Price Requirement, the bid price of our common stock did close below $1.00 per share at various times during 2016, and has closed below $1.00 per share on several occasions during 2017.  If we are unable to maintain compliance with the Bid Price Requirement, we may attempt to execute a reverse stock split or take other remedial actions in order to regain compliance with Bid Price Requirement and avoid delisting.  If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we could be required to list on the OTC (over-the-counter) market, which may adversely affect the price and trading liquidity of our common stock.  Delisting from the Nasdaq Global Select Market may have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence in us by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, fewer business development opportunities and greater difficulty in obtaining financing on favorable terms or at all.. The concentration of our capital stock ownership by our executive officers, directors and 5% stockholders will limit your ability to influence corporate matters.. Our executive officers, directors, current five percent or greater stockholders and entities affiliated with them together beneficially owned more than 50% of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2017. Based on public filings and our internal records, entities affiliated with Raging Capital Management, LLC (Raging Capital) beneficially owned approximately 29.7% of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2017, and Lloyd I. Miller and entities affiliated with each of Redpoint Ventures, Presidio Partners and U.S. Venture Partners also each beneficially owned more than 5% of our common stock outstanding as of such date. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with concentrated stock ownership. Also, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and determine the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets, and their interests may differ from those of our other stockholders. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if that change of control would benefit our other stockholders.. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the public market at any given time, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly.. If our existing stockholders sell, or if the market believes our existing stockholders will sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. As of December 31, 2017, we had 49.6 million shares of common stock outstanding. All of these shares can be resold at any time, subject in some cases to the volume limitations and other restrictions of Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and upon the lapse of our right of repurchase with respect to any unvested shares. Certain of our officers and directors may sell shares from time to time pursuant to 10b5-1 automated sales plans, and investors may react negatively to any insiders disposing of shares of our stock.. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, the holders of approximately 8.9 million shares of our common stock are entitled to certain rights with respect to the registration of such shares under the Securities Act. If we register such shares of common stock, these stockholders could sell those shares in the public market without being subject to the volume and other restrictions of Rule 144.. We also registered approximately 17.7 million shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our equity plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to vesting restrictions described above.. 22. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who covers us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include:. •  staggered board of directors;. •  authorizing the board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock;. •  authorizing the board to amend our bylaws and to fill board vacancies until the next annual meeting of the stockholders;. •  prohibiting stockholder action by written consent;. •  limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;. •  eliminating the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; and. •  requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals.. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits, subject to some exceptions, \"business combinations\" between a Delaware corporation and an \"interested stockholder,\" which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder.. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, and result in the market price of our common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions."
