[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We face a variety of risks that could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations, including the following:. Our ability to achieve consistent profitability is subject to uncertainty due to the nature of our businesses and the markets in which we operate. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 we recorded net income of $6.4 million, compared to net income of $54.7 million in fiscal 2016 and $55.7 million in fiscal 2015.. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future because of the following factors:. 11. Table of Contents. • Market conditions, such as price levels and volatility in the commodities, securities and foreign exchange markets in which we operate;. • Changes in the volume of our market-making and trading activities;. • Changes in the value of our financial instruments, currency and commodities positions and our ability to manage related risks;. • The level and volatility of interest rates;. • The availability and cost of funding and capital;. • Our ability to manage personnel, overhead and other expenses;. • Changes in execution and clearing fees;. • The addition or loss of sales or trading professionals;. • Changes in legal and regulatory requirements; and. • General economic and political conditions.. Although we continue our efforts to diversify the sources of our revenues, it is likely that our revenues and operating results will continue to fluctuate substantially in the future and such fluctuations could result in losses. These losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. The manner in which we account for certain of our precious metals commodities inventory may increase the volatility of our reported earnings. Our net income is subject to volatility due to the manner in which we report our precious metals commodities inventory held by subsidiaries that are not broker-dealers. Our precious metals inventory held in subsidiaries which are not broker-dealers is stated at the lower of cost or market value. We generally mitigate the price risk associated with our commodities inventory through the use of derivatives. We do not elect hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP for this price risk mitigation. In such situations, any unrealized gains in our precious metals inventory in our non-broker-dealer subsidiaries are not recognized under U.S. GAAP, but unrealized gains and losses in related derivative positions are recognized under U.S. GAAP. As a result, our reported earnings from these business segments are subject to greater volatility than the earnings from our other business segments.. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. As of September 30, 2017, our total consolidated indebtedness was $230.2 million, and we may increase our indebtedness in the future as we continue to expand our business. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including:. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • requiring that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the securities industry; and. • restricting our ability to pay dividends or make other payments.. We may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future, including secured indebtedness. If new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. Committed credit facilities currently available to us might not be renewed. We currently have four committed credit facilities under which we may borrow up to $532.0 million, consisting of:. • a $262.0 million facility available to INTL FCStone Inc., for general working capital requirements, committed until March 18, 2019.. • a $75.0 million facility available to our wholly owned subsidiary, INTL FCStone Financial, for short-term funding of margin to commodity exchanges, committed until April 5, 2018.. • a $170.0 million committed facility available to our wholly owned subsidiary, FCStone Merchant Services, LLC, for commodity financing arrangements and commodity repurchase agreements, committed until May 1, 2018.. • a $25.0 million facility available to our wholly owned subsidiary, INTL FCStone Ltd, for short-term funding of margin to commodity exchanges, committed until November 7, 2018.. During fiscal 2018, $245 million of our committed credit facilities are scheduled to expire. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in renewing, extending or rearranging these facilities.. It is possible that these facilities might not be renewed at the end of their commitment periods and that we will be unable to replace them with other facilities. If our credit facilities are unavailable or insufficient to support future levels of business activities, we may need to raise additional funds externally, either in the form of debt or equity. If we cannot raise additional funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our business, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressure or unanticipated requirements, leading to reduced profitability.. 12. Table of Contents. Our failure to successfully integrate the operations of businesses acquired could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We have a history of making acquisitions to expand our product offerings and /or geographic presence and may continue to do so in the future. We will need to meet challenges to realize the expected benefits and synergies of these acquisitions, including:. • integrating the management teams, strategies, cultures, technologies and operations of the acquired companies;. • retaining and assimilating the key personnel of acquired companies;. • retaining existing customers of the acquired companies;. • creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and. • achieving revenue growth because of risks involving (1) the ability to retain customers, (2) the ability to sell the services and products of the acquired companies to the existing customers of our other business segments, and (3) the ability to sell the services and products of our other business segments to the existing customers of the acquired companies.. The accomplishment of these objectives will involve considerable risk, including:. • the potential disruption of each company's ongoing business and distraction of their respective management teams;. • unanticipated expenses related to technology integration; and. • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquisitions.. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of the technical skills and management expertise of key employees, the disruption of the ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies due to possible cultural conflicts or differences of opinions on technical decisions and product road maps that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, counterparties, and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.. We face risks associated with our market-making and trading activities. We conduct our market-making and trading activities predominantly as a principal, which subjects our capital to significant risks. These activities involve the purchase, sale or short sale for customers and for our own account of financial instruments, including equity and debt securities, commodities and foreign exchange. These activities are subject to a number of risks, including risks of price fluctuations, rapid changes in the liquidity of markets and counterparty creditworthiness.. These risks may limit our ability to either resell financial instruments we purchased or to repurchase securities we sold in these transactions. In addition, we may experience difficulty borrowing financial instruments to make delivery to purchasers to whom we sold short, or lenders from whom we have borrowed. From time to time, we have large position concentrations in securities of a single issuer or issuers in specific countries and markets. This concentration could result in higher trading losses than would occur if our positions and activities were less concentrated.. The success of our market-making activities depends on:. • the price volatility of specific financial instruments, currencies and commodities,. • our ability to attract order flow;. • the skill of our personnel;. • the availability of capital; and. • general market conditions.. To attract market-trading, market-making and trading business, we must be competitive in:. • providing enhanced liquidity to our customers;. • the efficiency of our order execution;. • the sophistication of our trading technology; and. • the quality of our customer service.. In our role as a market maker and trader, we attempt to derive a profit from the difference between the prices at which we buy and sell financial instruments, currencies and commodities. However, competitive forces often require us to:. • match the quotes other market makers display; and. • hold varying amounts of financial instruments, currencies and commodities in inventory.. By having to maintain inventory positions, we are subject to a high degree of risk. We cannot ensure that we will be able to manage our inventory risk successfully or that we will not experience significant losses, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We operate as a principal in the OTC derivatives markets which involves the risks associated with commodity derivative instruments. We offer OTC derivatives to our customers in which we act as a principal counterparty. We endeavor to simultaneously offset the commodity price risk of the instruments by establishing corresponding offsetting positions with commodity counterparties, or alternatively we may offset those transactions with similar but not identical positions on an exchange. To the extent that we are unable to simultaneously offset an open position or the offsetting transaction is not fully. 13. Table of Contents. effective to eliminate the commodity derivative risk, we have market risk exposure on these unmatched transactions. Our exposure varies based on the size of the overall positions, the terms and liquidity of the instruments brokered, and the amount of time the positions remain open.. To the extent an unhedged position is not disposed of intra-day, adverse movements in the commodities underlying these positions or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these positions could result in a substantial loss. In addition, any principal gains and losses resulting from these positions could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period.. Transactions involving OTC derivative contracts may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the level, volatility, correlation or relationship between market prices, rates, indices and/or other factors. These types of instruments may also suffer from illiquidity in the market or in a related market.. OTC derivative transactions are subject to unique risks. OTC derivative transactions are subject to the risk that, as a result of mismatches or delays in the timing of cash flows due from or to counterparties in OTC derivative transactions or related hedging, trading, collateral or other transactions, we or our counterparty may not have adequate cash available to fund its current obligations.. We could incur material losses pursuant to OTC derivative transactions because of inadequacies in or failures of our internal systems and controls for monitoring and quantifying the risk and contractual obligations associated with OTC derivative transactions and related transactions or for detecting human error, systems failure or management failure.. OTC derivative transactions may be modified or terminated only by mutual consent of the original parties and subject to agreement on individually negotiated terms. Accordingly it may not be possible to modify, terminate or offset obligations or exposure to the risk associated with a transaction prior to its scheduled termination date.. Proposed changes to the U.S. corporate tax system may have a significant effect on the carrying value of our net deferred tax assets and could result in additional U.S. corporate tax liabilities on unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. The current administration and members of the U.S. Congress are currently pursuing reform of the U.S. tax system and have proposed sweeping changes to the U.S. tax system. These reforms may include changes to corporate tax rates, limitations on deductibility of interest and other expenses, changes in the taxation of income earned outside the United States and taxing previously unremitted foreign earnings at concessional tax rates.. A decrease in the U.S. corporate tax rate could have a material adverse effect on earnings in the quarter in which the legislation is enacted due to our net deferred tax asset position. It also remains uncertain as to the level of conformity and consistency to the U.S. federal income tax changes that shall be applied by the state and local income tax jurisdictions. Given the number of uncertainties relating to the ultimate form any corporate tax reform may take, it is not possible to quantify the potential negative impact to the carrying value of our deferred tax assets or future tax liabilities.. We may have difficulty managing our growth. We have experienced significant growth in our business. Our operating revenues grew from $468.2 million in fiscal 2013 to $784.0 million in fiscal 2017.. This growth required, and will continue to require, us to increase our investment in management personnel, financial and management systems and controls, and facilities. In the absence of continued revenue growth, the costs associated with our expected growth would cause our operating margins to decline from current levels. In addition, as is common in the financial industry, we are and will continue to be highly dependent on the effective and reliable operation of our communications and information systems.. The scope of procedures for assuring compliance with applicable rules and regulations changes as the size and complexity of our business increases. In response, we have implemented and continue to revise formal compliance procedures.. It is possible that we will not be able to manage our growth successfully. Our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Lapses in disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could materially and adversely affect our operations, profitability or reputation. We are committed to maintaining high standards of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures.  Nevertheless, lapses or deficiencies in disclosure controls and procedures or in our internal control over financial reporting may occur from time to time.  We reported management's conclusion that material weaknesses existed in our internal control over financial reporting at September 30, 2017.. This determination related to one of our physical trading businesses based in Singapore which we subsequently closed and exited.  As a result of the material weaknesses, management also concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at September 30, 2017. Management is taking steps to remediate the internal control deficiency, including enhancing controls and monitoring of new businesses.. 14. Table of Contents. There can be no assurance that our disclosure controls and procedures will be effective in the future or that a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting will not again exist.  Any such lapses or deficiencies may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations or financial condition, require us to expend significant resources to correct the lapses or deficiencies, expose us to regulatory or legal proceedings, subject us to fines, penalties, judgments or losses not covered by insurance, harm our reputation, or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence.. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could harm our business. We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. However, our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. Our risk management policies and procedures require, among other things, that we properly record and verify many thousands of transactions and events each day, and that we continuously monitor and evaluate the size and nature of our or our customers' positions and the associated risks. In light of the high volume of transactions, it is impossible for us to review and assess every single transaction or to monitor at every moment in time our or our customers' positions and the associated risks.. Our policies and procedures used to identify, monitor and control a variety of risks, including risks related to human error, customer defaults, market movements, fraud and money-laundering, are established and reviewed by the Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. Some of our methods for managing risk are discretionary by nature and are based on internally developed controls and observed historical market behavior, and also involve reliance on standard industry practices. These methods may not adequately prevent losses, particularly as they relate to extreme market movements, which may be significantly greater than historical fluctuations in the market. Our risk management policies and procedures also may not adequately prevent losses due to technical errors if our testing and quality control practices are not effective in preventing software or hardware failures. In addition, we may elect to adjust our risk management policies and procedures to allow for an increase in risk tolerance, which could expose us to the risk of greater losses. Our risk management policies and procedures rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and failure. These policies and procedures may not protect us against all risks or may protect us less than anticipated, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect our business. We have substantial credit risk in both our securities and commodities businesses. As a market-maker of OTC and listed securities and a dealer in fixed income securities, we conduct the majority of our securities transactions as principal with institutional counterparties. We clear the majority of our principal securities transactions through unaffiliated clearing brokers. The majority of our principal equity and debt securities are held by these clearing brokers. Our clearing brokers have the right to charge us for losses that result from a counterparty's failure to fulfill its contractual obligations. We borrow securities from, and lend securities to, other broker-dealers, and may also enter into agreements to repurchase and agreements to resell securities. A sharp change in the security market values utilized in these transactions may result in losses if counterparties to these transactions fail to honor their commitments.. In our correspondent securities clearing and independent wealth management businesses, we permit customers to purchase securities on margin, subject to various regulatory and internal margin requirements. During periods of significant price declines, the value of collateral securing the customer's margin loan may decline below the customer's obligation to us. In the event, the customer is unable to deposit additional collateral for these margin loans, we may incur credit losses on these transactions or additional costs in attempting to secure additional collateral. While introducing broker-dealers and independent representatives are generally responsible for the credit losses of their customers, we may incur losses if they do not fulfill their obligations.. As a clearing broker in futures and option transactions, we act on behalf of our customers for all trades consummated on exchanges. We must pay initial and variation margin to the exchanges before we receive the required payments from our customers. Accordingly, we are responsible for our customers' obligations with respect to these transactions, including margin payments, which exposes us to significant credit risk. Customer positions which represent a significant percentage of open positions in a given market or concentrations in illiquid markets may expose us to the risk that we are not able to liquidate a customer's position in a manner which does not result in a deficit in that customers account. A substantial part of our working capital is at risk if customers default on their obligations to us and their account balances and security deposits are insufficient to meet all of their obligations.. We act as a principal for OTC commodity and foreign exchange derivative transactions, which exposes us to both the credit risk of our customers and the counterparties with which we offset the customer's position. As with exchange-traded transactions, our OTC transactions require that we meet initial and variation margin payments on behalf of our customers before we receive the required payment from our customers. In addition, with OTC transactions, there is a risk that a counterparty will fail to meet its obligations when due. We would then be exposed to the risk that a settlement of a transaction which is due a customer will not be collected from the respective counterparty with which the transaction was offset.. 15. Table of Contents. Customers and counterparties that owe us money, securities or other assets may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons.. We act as a principal in our physical commodities trading activities which exposes us to the credit risk of our counterparties and customers in these activities. Any metals or other physical commodities positions are held by third party custodians.. Although we have procedures for reviewing credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties to address present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee, including rapid changes in securities, commodity and foreign exchange price levels. Some of our risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. We may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by our customers and counterparties.. In our securities and commodities businesses we rely on the ability of our clearing brokers to adequately discharge their obligations on a timely basis. We also depend on the solvency of our clearing brokers and custodians. Any failure by a clearing broker to adequately discharge its obligations on a timely basis, or insolvency of a clearing broker or custodian, or any event adversely affecting our clearing brokers or custodians, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. As a clearing member firm of commodities clearing houses in the U.S. and abroad, we are also exposed to clearing member credit risk. Commodities clearing houses require member firms to deposit cash and/or government securities to a clearing fund. If a clearing member defaults in its obligations to the clearing house in an amount larger than its own margin and clearing fund deposits, the shortfall is absorbed pro rata from the deposits of the other clearing members. Several clearing houses of which we are members also have the authority to assess their members for additional funds if the clearing fund is depleted. A large clearing member default could result in a substantial cost to us if we are required to pay such assessments.. Our net operating revenues may decrease due to changes in market volume, prices or liquidity. Declines in the volume of securities, commodities and foreign exchange transactions and in market liquidity generally may result in lower revenues from market-making and trading activities. Changes in price levels of securities and commodities and foreign exchange rates also may result in reduced trading activity and reduce our revenues from market-making transactions. Changed price levels also can result in losses from changes in the fair value of securities and commodities held in inventory. Sudden sharp changes in fair values of securities and commodities can result in:. • illiquid markets;. • fair value losses arising from positions held by us;. • the failure of buyers and sellers of securities and commodities to fulfill their settlement obligations,. • redemptions from funds managed in our asset management business segment and consequent reductions in management fees;. • reductions in accrued performance fees in our asset management business segment; and. • increases in claims and litigation.. Any change in market volume, price or liquidity or any other of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our net operating revenues may decrease due to changes in customer trading volumes which are dependent in large part on commodity prices and commodity price volatility. Customer trading volumes are largely driven by the degree of volatility - the magnitude and frequency of fluctuations - in prices of commodities. Higher volatility increases the need to hedge contractual price risk and creates opportunities for arbitrage trading. Energy and agricultural commodities markets periodically experience significant price volatility. In addition to price volatility, increases in commodity prices generally lead to increased trading volume. As prices of commodities rise, especially energy prices, new participants enter the markets to address their growing risk-management needs or to take advantage of greater trading opportunities. Sustained periods of stability in the prices of commodities or generally lower prices could result in lower trading volumes and, potentially, lower revenues. Lower volatility and lower volumes could lead to lower customer balances held on deposit, which in turn may reduce the amount of interest revenue based on these deposits.. Factors that are particularly likely to affect price volatility and price levels of commodities include:. • supply and demand of commodities;. • weather conditions affecting certain commodities;. • national and international economic and political conditions;. • perceived stability of commodities and financial markets;. • the level and volatility of interest rates and inflation; and. • financial strength of market participants.. 16. Table of Contents. Any one or more of these factors may reduce price volatility or price levels in the markets for commodities trading, which in turn could reduce trading activity in those markets. Moreover, any reduction in trading activity could reduce liquidity which in turn could further discourage existing and potential market participants and thus accelerate any decline in the level of trading activity in these markets.. Our net operating revenues may be impacted by diminished market activity due to adverse economic, political and market conditions. The amount of our revenues depends in part on the level of activity in the securities, foreign exchange and commodities markets in which we conduct business. The level of activity in these markets is directly affected by numerous national and international factors that are beyond our control, including:. • economic, political and market conditions;. • the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital;. • the level and volatility of interest rates;. • legislative and regulatory changes; and. • currency values and inflation.. Any one or more of these factors may reduce the level of activity in these markets, which could result in lower revenues from our market-making and trading activities. Any reduction in revenues or any loss resulting from these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We depend on our management team. Our future success depends, in large part, upon our management team who possess extensive knowledge and management skills with respect to securities, commodities and foreign exchange businesses we operate. The unexpected loss of services of any of our executive officers could adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively or execute our business strategy. Although some of these officers have employment contracts with us, they are generally not required to remain with us for a specified period of time.. We depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for key personnel and other highly qualified management, sales, trading, compliance and technical personnel is significant. It is possible that we will be unable to retain our key personnel and to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or the inability to identify, hire, train and retain other qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. From time to time, other companies in the financial sector have experienced losses of sales and trading professionals. The level of competition to attract these professionals is intense. It is possible that we will lose professionals due to increased competition or other factors in the future. The loss of a sales and trading professional, particularly a senior professional with broad industry expertise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. In the event of employee misconduct or error, our business may be harmed. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Employee misconduct or error could subject us to legal liability, financial losses and regulatory sanctions and could seriously harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. Misconduct by employees could include engaging in improper or unauthorized transactions or activities, failing to properly supervise other employees or improperly using confidential information. Employee errors, including mistakes in executing, recording or processing transactions for customers, could cause us to enter into transactions that customers may disavow and refuse to settle, which could expose us to the risk of material losses even if the errors are detected and the transactions are unwound or reversed. If our customers are not able to settle their transactions on a timely basis, the time in which employee errors are detected may be increased and our risk of material loss could be increased. The risk of employee error or miscommunication may be greater for products that are new or have non-standardized terms. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct or error, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases.. Internal or third party computer systems failures, capacity constraints and breaches of security could increase our operating costs and/or credit losses, decrease net operating revenues and cause us to lose customers. We are heavily dependent on the capacity and reliability of the computer and communications systems supporting our operations, whether owned and operated internally or by third parties, including those used for execution and clearance of our customer's trades and our market making activities. We receive and process a large portion of our trade orders through electronic means, such as through public and private communications networks. These computer and communications systems and networks are subject to performance degradation or failure from any number of reasons, including loss of power, acts of war or terrorism, human error, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, customer error or misuse, lack of proper maintenance or monitoring and similar events. Our systems, or those of our third party providers, may fail or operate slowly, causing one or more of the following:. • unanticipated disruptions in service to our customers;. • slower response times;. • delays in our customers' trade execution;. 17. Table of Contents. • failed settlement of trades;. • decreased customer satisfaction with our services;. • incomplete, untimely or inaccurate accounting, recording, reporting or processing of trades;. • financial losses;. • litigation or other customer claims; and. • regulatory sanctions.. The occurrence of degradation or failure of the communications and computer systems on which we rely may lead to financial losses, litigation or arbitration claims filed by or on behalf of our customers and regulatory investigations and sanctions, including by the CFTC, which require that our trade execution and communications systems be able to handle anticipated present and future peak trading volumes. Any such degradation or failure could also have a negative effect on our reputation, which in turn could cause us to lose existing customers to our competitors or make it more difficult for us to attract new customers in the future. Further, any financial loss that we suffer as a result of such degradations or failures could be magnified by price movements of contracts involved in transactions impacted by the degradation or failure, and we may be unable to take corrective action to mitigate any losses we suffer.. We are subject to extensive government regulation. The securities and commodities futures industries are subject to extensive regulation under federal, state and foreign laws. In addition, the SEC, the CFTC, FINRA, MSRB, the FCA, the NFA, the CME Group and other self-regulatory organizations, commonly referred to as SROs, state securities commissions, and foreign regulators require compliance with their respective rules and regulations. These regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the financial markets and protecting the interests of participants in those markets.. As participants in various financial markets, we may be subject to regulation concerning certain aspects of our business, including:. • trade practices;. • the way we communicate with, and disclose risks to customers;. • financial and reporting requirements and practices;. • customer identification and anti-money laundering requirements;. • capital structure;. • record retention; and. • the conduct of our directors, officers and employees.. Failure to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations could result in adverse consequences. We and certain of our officers and employees have, in the past, been subject to claims arising from acts that regulators asserted were in contravention of these laws, rules and regulations. These claims resulted in the payment of fines and settlements. It is possible that we and our officers and other employees will be subject to similar claims in the future. An adverse ruling against us or our officers and other employees could result in our or our officers and other employees being required to pay a substantial fine or settlement and could result in a suspension or revocation of required registrations or memberships. Such sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to change. In November 2013, the CFTC finalized new rules known as \"Enhancing Customer Protections Rules\". These provisions, among other things, require enhanced customer protections, risk management programs, internal monitoring and controls, capital and liquidity standards, customer disclosures, and auditing and examination programs for FCMs. These rule changes, additional legislation or regulations, changes required under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") and any new or revised regulation by the SEC, the CFTC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities, SROs, MSRB or FINRA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities, SROs, MSRB and FINRA could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Failure to comply with current or future legislation or regulations that apply to our operations could subject us to fines, penalties, or material restrictions on our business in the future.. Additional regulation, changes in existing laws and rules, or changes in interpretations or enforcement of existing laws and rules often directly affect financial services firms. We cannot predict what effect any such changes might have. Our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially affected by both regulations that are directly applicable to us and regulations of general application. Our level of trading and market-making activities can be affected not only by such legislation or regulations of general applicability, but also by industry-specific legislation or regulations.. We have incurred significant additional operational and compliance costs to meet the requirements of recent legislation and related regulations. This legislation and the related regulations may significantly affect our business in the future. Recent market and economic conditions have led to legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. These changes could eventually have an effect on our revenue and profitability, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, impact the value of assets that we hold, require us to change certain business practices, impose additional costs on us, and. 18. Table of Contents. otherwise adversely affect our business. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that new legislation and regulation will not eventually have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The principal legislation is the Dodd-Frank Act which creates a comprehensive new regulatory regime governing the OTC and listed derivatives markets and their participants by requiring, among other things: centralized clearing of standardized derivatives (with certain stated exceptions); the trading of clearable derivatives on swap execution facilities or exchanges; and registration and comprehensive regulation of new categories of market participants as \"swap dealers\" and swap \"introducing brokers.\" The Dodd-Frank Act grants regulatory authorities, such as the CFTC and the SEC, broad rule-making authority to implement various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, including comprehensive regulation of the OTC derivatives market. These regulators will continue to exercise, their expanded rule-making powers in ways that will affect how we conduct our business.. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs to comply with these regulatory requirements. We have also incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs related to the development, operation and enhancement of our technology relating to trade execution, trade reporting, surveillance, record keeping and data reporting obligations, compliance and back-up and disaster recovery plans designed to meet the requirements of the regulators.. Changes that will be required in our OTC and clearing businesses may adversely impact our results of operations. Following the implementation of all of the rules contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act, the markets for cleared and non-cleared swaps may be less robust, there may be less volume and liquidity in these markets and there may be less demand for our services. Certain banks and other institutions will be limited in their conduct of proprietary trading and will be further limited or prohibited from trading in certain derivatives. The new rules, including the restrictions on the trading activities for certain banks and large institutions, could impact transaction volumes and liquidity in these markets and our revenues would be adversely impacted as a result.. Changes that will be required in our OTC and clearing businesses may also adversely impact our cash flows and financial condition. Registration will impose substantial new requirements upon these entities including, among other things, capital and margin requirements, business conduct standards and record keeping and data reporting obligations. Increased regulatory oversight could also impose administrative burdens on us related to, among other things, responding to regulatory examinations or investigations. Effective September 2016, CFTC margin rules came into effect, imposing new requirements to exchange initial and variation margin, depending upon aggregate daily notional transactions outstanding, with an implementation period ending in 2020. CFTC Capital rules have not been finalized and therefore it is too early to predict with any degree of certainty how we will be affected.. The EMIR is the European regulations on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories.  The EMIR has been implemented across the European Economic Area member states by the EBA and ESMA. ESMA is continuing to evaluate and set clearing obligations for certain OTC derivatives. We will continue to monitor all applicable developments in the ongoing implementation of EMIR. The EMIR has imposed new requirements on our European operations, including (a) reporting derivatives to a trade repository; (b) putting in place certain risk management procedures for OTC derivative transactions that are not cleared; (c) changes to our clearing account models and increased central counterparty margin requirements.  Reporting requirements came into effect in February 2014 and most risk mitigation procedures were set at the end of 2013. Implementation of collateral obligations applicable to non-cleared OTC transactions came into force during 2017. ESMA is continuing to evaluate and set clearing obligations for certain OTC derivatives, and these obligations are due expected to be rolled with some complementary MiFID provisions in 2018. INTL FCStone Ltd complies with the enacted provisions and will do so when pending EMIR provisions are finalized as relevant to its activities.. In addition to the EMIR, the FCA will be enforcing additional European Union issued regulations such as MIFID II, for which implementation and MIFIR for which implementation is scheduled for 2018. Principal areas of impact related to these regulatory texts will involve oversight and emergence of OTFs for trading OTC non-equity products, customer type re-assessment, investor protection, enhanced conflict of interest and execution policies, transparency obligations and extended transaction reporting requirements.. The increased costs associated with compliance, and the changes that will be required in our OTC and clearing businesses, may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows, and/or financial condition.. We are subject to net capital requirements. The SEC, FINRA and the CFTC require our dually registered broker-dealer/FCM subsidiary, INTL FCStone Financial to maintain specific levels of net capital. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject this subsidiary to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC, and suspension or expulsion by FINRA and other regulatory bodies and may subject this subsidiary to limitations on its activities, including suspension or revocation of its registration by the CFTC and suspension or expulsion by the NFA and various exchanges of which it is a member.. 19. Table of Contents. INTL Custody & Clearing Solutions Inc. (formerly Sterne Agee Clearing, Inc.) and SA Stone Wealth Management Inc. (formerly Sterne Agee Financial Services, Inc.) are subject to the SEC Uniform Net Capital Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.. The FCA requires our U.K. subsidiary, INTL FCStone Ltd to maintain specific levels of net capital.  Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject INTL FCStone Ltd to suspension or revocation of its registration by the FCA.. Ultimately, any failure to meet capital requirements by our dually registered broker-dealer/FCM subsidiary, our broker-dealer subsidiaries or our U.K. subsidiary could result in liquidation of the subsidiary. Failure to comply with the net capital rules could have material and adverse consequences such as limiting their operations, or restricting us from withdrawing capital from these subsidiaries.. In addition, a change in the net capital rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charge against net capital could limit our operations that require the intensive use of capital. They could also restrict our ability to withdraw capital from these subsidiaries. Any limitation on our ability to withdraw capital could limit our ability to pay cash dividends, repay debt and repurchase shares of our outstanding stock. A significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain our present levels of business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We are subject to margin funding requirements on short notice. Our business involves establishment and carrying of substantial open positions for customers on futures exchanges and in the OTC derivatives markets. We are required to post and maintain margin or credit support for these positions. Although we collect margin or other deposits from our customers for these positions, significant adverse price movements can occur which will require us to post margin or other deposits on short notice, whether or not we are able to collect additional margin or credit support from our customers. We maintain borrowing facilities for the purpose of funding margin and credit support and have systems to endeavor to collect margin and other deposits from customers on a same-day basis, there can be no assurance that these facilities and systems will be adequate to eliminate the risk of margin calls in the event of severe adverse price movements affecting open positions of our customers. Generally, if a customer is unable to meet its margin call, we promptly liquidate the customer's account. However, there can be no assurance that in each case the liquidation of the account will not result in a loss to us or that liquidation will be feasible, given market conditions, size of the account and tenor of the positions.. Low short-term interest rates negatively impact our profitability. The level of prevailing short-term interest rates affects our profitability because we derive a portion of our revenue from interest earned from the investment of funds deposited with us by our customers. As of September 30, 2017, we had $2.2 billion in customer segregated assets, the majority of which are generally invested in U.S. Treasury securities and money market mutual funds. In addition, in our correspondent securities clearing business, we earn interest on customer cash held in money market mutual funds and FDIC sweep accounts.  Our financial performance generally benefits from rising interest rates. Higher interest rates increase the amount of interest income earned from these customer deposits. If short-term interest rates remain low or continue to fall, our revenues derived from interest will decline which would negatively impact our profitability.. Short-term interest rates are highly sensitive to factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. In particular, decreases in the federal funds rate by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System usually lead to decreasing interest rates in the U.S., which generally lead to a decrease in short-term interest rates.. We may issue additional equity securities. The issuance of additional common stock or securities convertible into our common stock could result in dilution of the ownership interest in us held by existing stockholders. We are authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, a significant number of additional shares of our common stock and securities convertible into either common stock or preferred stock.. We are subject to risks relating to litigation and potential securities and commodities law liability. We face significant legal risks in our businesses, including risks related to currently pending litigation involving the Company. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability, including liability under federal and state securities and commodities laws, other federal, state and foreign laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, the CFTC, FINRA, MSRB, the NFA, the FCA and other regulatory bodies. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us and our subsidiaries could have adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. Any such litigation could lead to more volatility of our stock price.. For a further discussion of litigation risks, see Item 3 - Legal Proceedings below and Note 12 - Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements.. We are subject to intense competition. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from market-making and trading activities involving securities and commodities. The market for these services, particularly market-making services through electronic communications gateways, is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue and. 20. Table of Contents. intensify in the future. We compete primarily with wholesale, national, and regional broker-dealers and FCMs, as well as electronic communications networks. We compete primarily on the basis of our expertise and quality of service.. We also derive a significant portion of our revenues from commodities risk management services. The commodity risk management industry is very competitive and we expect competition to continue to intensify in the future. Our primary competitors in this industry include both large, diversified financial institutions and commodity-oriented businesses, smaller firms that focus on specific products or regional markets and independent FCMs.. A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Some of them may:. • offer alternative forms of financial intermediation as a result of superior technology and greater availability of information;. • offer a wider range of services and products than we offer;. • be larger and better capitalized;. • have greater name recognition; and. • have more extensive customer bases.. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities and customer requirements. They may also be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities and offer more attractive terms to customers. Recent advances in computing and communications technology are substantially changing the means by which market-making services are delivered, including more direct access on-line to a wide variety of services and information. This has created demand for more sophisticated levels of customer service. Providing these services may entail considerable cost without an offsetting increase in revenues. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships or may consolidate to enhance their services and products. New competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and they may acquire significant market share.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and increase our customer base. Customers in our market are sensitive to, among other things, the costs of using our services, the quality of the services we offer, the speed and reliability of order execution and the breadth of our service offerings and the products and markets to which we offer access. We may not be able to continue to offer the pricing, service, speed and reliability of order execution or the service, product and market breadth that customers desire. In addition, once our risk management consulting customers have become better educated with regard to sources of risk and the tools available to facilitate the management of this risk and we have provided them with recommended hedging strategies, they may no longer continue paying monthly fees for these services. Furthermore, our existing customers, including IRMP customers, are not generally obligated to use our services and can switch providers of clearing and execution services or decrease their trading activity conducted through us at any time. As a result, we may fail to retain existing customers or be unable to attract new customers. Our failure to maintain or attract customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We rely on relationships with introducing brokers for obtaining some of our customers. The failure to maintain these relationships could adversely affect our business. We have relationships with introducing brokers who assist us in establishing new customer relationships and provide marketing and customer service functions for some of our customers. These introducing brokers receive compensation for introducing customers to us. Many of our relationships with introducing brokers are non-exclusive or may be canceled on relatively short notice. In addition, our introducing brokers have no obligation to provide new customer relationships or minimum levels of transaction volume. Our failure to maintain these relationships with these introducing brokers or the failure of these introducing brokers to establish and maintain customer relationships would result in a loss of revenues, which could adversely affect our business.. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our charter may adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and make a takeover of us more difficult. We are organized under the laws of the State of Delaware. Certain provisions of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. In addition, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation may have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider in its best interest. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board to determine the terms of our unissued series of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares of any series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. As a result, the board can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, because the rights given to the holders of a series of preferred stock may prohibit a merger, reorganization, sale, liquidation or other extraordinary corporate transaction.. 21. Table of Contents. Our stock price is subject to volatility. The market price of our common stock has been and can be expected to be subject to fluctuation as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations;. • announcements of new products by us or our competitors;. • technological innovations by us or our competitors;. • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by financial analysts;. • the operating and stock price performance of other companies;. • general market conditions or conditions specific in specific markets;. • conditions or trends affecting our industry or the economy generally;. • announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; and. • risk factors and uncertainties set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K.. Because of this volatility, we may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline as a result. In addition, any negative change in the public perception of the securities industry could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results.. Future sales by existing stockholders could depress the market price of our common stock. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.. Our international operations involve special challenges that we may not be able to meet, which could adversely affect our financial results. We engage in a significant amount of business with customers in the international markets. Certain additional risks are inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in a regulated industry. These risks include:. • the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change;. • tariffs and other trade barriers;. • difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel, and managing international operations;. • difficulties of debt collection in foreign jurisdictions;. • potentially adverse tax consequences; and. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights.. Our operations are subject to the political, legal and economic risks associated with politically unstable and less developed regions of the world, including the risk of war and other international conflicts and actions by governmental authorities, insurgent groups, terrorists and others. Specifically, we conduct business in countries whose currencies may be unstable. Future instability in such currencies or the imposition of governmental or regulatory restrictions on such currencies could impede our foreign business and our ability to collect on collateral held in such currencies.. Our operations are required to comply with the laws and regulations of foreign governmental and regulatory authorities of each country in which we conduct business, and if we violate these regulations, we may be subject to significant penalties. The financial services industry is subject to extensive laws, rules and regulations in every country in which we operate. Firms that engage in commodity futures brokerage, securities and derivatives trading and investment banking must comply with the laws, rules and regulations imposed by the governing country, state, regulatory bodies and self-regulatory bodies with governing authority over such activities. Such laws, rules and regulations cover all aspects of the financial services business, including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure, anti-money laundering and anti-bribery and corruption efforts, recordkeeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.. Each of our regulators supervises our business activities to monitor compliance with such laws, rules and regulations in the relevant jurisdiction. In addition, if there are instances in which our regulators question our compliance with laws, rules, and regulations, they may investigate the facts and circumstances to determine whether we have complied. At any moment in time, we may be subject to one or more such investigation or similar reviews. At this time, we believe all such investigations, and similar reviews are insignificant in scope and immaterial to us. However, there can be no assurance that, in the future, the operations of our businesses will not violate such laws, rules, and regulations and that related investigations and similar reviews could result in adverse regulatory requirements, regulatory enforcement actions and/or fines.. Additional legislation, changes in rules, changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, or the entering into businesses that subject us to new rules and regulations may directly affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. FCA will be enforcing additional European Union issued regulations such as MIFID II and MIFIR for which implementation is scheduled for 2018. Principal areas of impact related to these regulatory texts will involve emergence and oversight of OTF's for trading OTC non-equity products, customer type re-assessment, investor protection, enhanced conflict of interest and. 22. Table of Contents. execution policies, transparency obligations and extended transaction reporting requirements. We will continue to monitor all applicable developments in the ongoing implementation of MIFID II.. In accordance with these regulations we have applied for a license to operate an OTF to continue arranging OTC trades for energy contracts, and we are updating trading interfaces adding additional information to ensure continuity of trading on all trading venues we are a member of,  enhancing the content of databases to comply with new transaction reporting, trade publication and position reporting obligations, liaising with clients to communicate upcoming changes and modifying policies and procedures to adjust/align them with the new upcoming regulatory environment.. The U.K.'s proposed withdrawal from the European Union could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. On March 29, 2017, the U.K. government triggered the article 50 of the E.U. Treaty of Lisbon. This officially confirmed the U.K. intention withdraw its membership to the E.U. and the start for a two years negotiation process where the U.K. and the E.U. need to agree the terms of the withdrawal and potentially give consideration to the future of the relationship between the parties.  Current uncertainty over whether the U.K. will ultimately leave the E.U., as well as the final outcome of the negotiations between the U.K. and E.U., could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. The long-term effects of Brexit will depend on the terms negotiated between the U.K. and the E.U., which may take years to complete. Our operations in the U.K. as well as our global operations could be impacted by the global economic uncertainty caused by Brexit.. If we are unable to manage any of these risks effectively, our business could be adversely affected."
