[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report, before making your decision to invest in shares of our common stock. We cannot assure you that any of the events discussed in the risk factors below will not occur. These risks could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. If that were to happen, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. See \"Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" for information relating to these forward-looking statements.. Risks related to our financial position, operating results and need for additional capital. We have a history of net losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability.. We have incurred net losses attributable to Intrexon since our inception, including losses attributable to Intrexon of $117.0 million, $186.6 million and $84.5 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $847.8 million. We may incur losses and negative cash flow from operating activities for the foreseeable future. To date, we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from ECCs and license agreements. With the evolution of our business strategy, we anticipate greater levels of revenues from products and services as we successfully scale up and commercialize new products. We may also realize significant future revenues from strategic transactions involving our subsidiaries or JVs. If our existing collaborators terminate their ECCs, license agreements or JVs with us or we are unable to commercialize products through our subsidiaries and JVs or enter into strategic transactions, our revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, certain of our collaborations and license agreements provide for milestone payments, future royalties and other forms of contingent consideration, the payment of which are uncertain as they are dependent on our collaborators' abilities and willingness to successfully develop and commercialize products. Moreover, many of the products being commercialized by us are in the early stages of development or preliminary stages of sales. We expect a significant period of time could pass before the achievement of contractual milestones and the realization of royalties on products commercialized under our collaborations or before commercialization of our various products and revenues is sufficient to achieve profitability. As a result, our expenses may exceed revenues for the foreseeable future, and we may not achieve profitability. If we fail to achieve profitability, or if the time required to achieve profitability is longer than we anticipate, we may not be able to continue our business. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.. We may need substantial additional capital in the future in order to fund our business.. We expect our future capital requirements will be substantial, particularly as we continue to develop our business and expand our synthetic biology technology platform and for capital investment needed to scale up our commercial operations. Although we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments and cash expected to be received from our current collaborators and for sales of products and services provided by our consolidated subsidiaries will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may need additional capital if our current plans and assumptions change. Our need for additional capital will depend on many factors, including:. • the commercial success of products being developed by our subsidiaries, JVs and unpartnered programs;. • the commercial success of our ECCs and license agreements;. • whether we are successful in obtaining payments in connection with strategic transactions;. • whether we are successful in obtaining payments from our collaborators and licensees;. • whether we can enter into additional ECCs, license agreements or JVs;. • the progress and scope of the collaborative and independent research and development projects performed by us and our collaborators and licensees;. 24. Table of Contents. • the timing and capital requirements to scale up our various products and services offerings;. • the effect of any acquisitions of other businesses or technologies that we may make in the future;. • whether we decide to develop internal development or manufacturing capabilities;. • the filing, prosecution and enforcement of our intellectual property;. • investments we may make in current and future collaborators, including JVs;. • our ability to maintain or improve the volume and pricing of our current product offerings and to develop new offerings, including those which may incorporate new technologies; and. • the costs associated with legal activities, including litigation, arising in the course of our business activities and our ability to prevail in any such legal activities.. In December 2017, we entered into an agreement with the R.J. Kirk Declaration of Trust, an entity affiliated with Randal J. Kirk, pursuant to which the R.J. Kirk Declaration of Trust purchased 1,207,980 shares of our common stock in a private placement, for aggregate gross proceeds of $13.7 million. In January 2018, we completed an underwritten public offering of our shares providing us net proceeds of $82.2 million. In October 2017, we entered into a Preferred Stock Equity Facility Agreement with Kapital Joe, LLC, or Kapital Joe, an entity affiliated with Mr. Kirk, pursuant to which we may, at our sole and exclusive option, issue and sell to Kapital Joe, up to $100 million of our Series A Redeemable Preferred Stock, or Series A Preferred Stock. We are currently party to an \"at-the-market\" sales agreement with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., or Cantor, under which we may offer and sell from time to time our common stock with aggregate proceeds of up to $200 million through Cantor as our sales agent. To date, no offerings have occurred under this agreement.. If future financings involve the issuance of equity securities, our existing shareholders would suffer further dilution. If we raise debt financing, we may be subject to restrictive covenants that limit our ability to conduct our business. We may not be able to raise sufficient additional funds on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. If we fail to raise sufficient funds and continue to incur losses, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of strategic opportunities, develop products or technologies, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited. If this happens, we may be forced to delay or terminate research or development programs or the commercialization of products resulting from our technologies, curtail or cease operations or obtain funds through strategic transactions, ECCs, JVs or other collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we will not be able to successfully execute our business plan or continue our business.. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline.. Our financial condition and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors relating to our business that may contribute to these fluctuations include the following factors, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report:. • our ability to achieve or maintain profitability;. • our relationships, and the associated exclusivity terms, with collaborators and licensees in our target end markets;. • our ability to develop and maintain technologies that our collaborators and licensees continue to use and that new collaborators are seeking;. • our ability to enter into strategic transactions, ECCs, license agreements or JVs;. • the feasibility of producing and commercializing products enabled by our technologies;. • obligations to provide resources to our collaborators or to the collaborations themselves pursuant to the terms of the relevant ECC, license agreement or JV agreement;. • our ability to manage our growth;. 25. Table of Contents. • the outcomes of research programs, clinical trials, or other product development and approval processes conducted by our collaborators and licensees;. • the ability of our collaborators and licensees to develop and successfully commercialize products enabled by our technologies;. • our ability to successfully scale up production of our commercial products and customer acceptance thereof;. • risks associated with the international aspects of our business;. • our ability to integrate any businesses or technologies we may acquire with our business;. • our ability to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner;. • our dependence on, and the need to attract and retain, key management and other personnel;. • our ability to obtain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights;. • our ability to prevent the theft or misappropriation of our intellectual property, know-how or technologies;. • potential advantages that our competitors, the competitors of our collaborators, and potential competitors may have in securing funding or developing competing technologies or products;. • our ability to obtain additional capital that may be necessary to expand our business;. • our collaborators' ability to obtain additional capital that may be necessary to develop and commercialize products under our ECCs, license agreements and JVs;. • our exposure to the volatility associated with recording the fair value of securities of our collaborators held by us;. • business interruptions such as power outages and other natural disasters;. • public concerns about the ethical, legal and social ramifications of GE products and processes;. • the impact of new accounting pronouncements on our current and future operating results;. • our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income;. • the impact of the Tax Act on our current and future operating results; and. • the results of our consolidated subsidiaries.. Due to the various factors mentioned above, and others, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future operating performance.. We have a limited operating history, which may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and predict our future performance.. We have been in existence since 1998. From 1998 until 2010, our operations focused primarily on organizing and staffing our company and developing our technologies. Our current business strategy, including our plans to focus on partnering later-stage assets, is still being tested. In January 2011, we recognized our first revenues from our first ECC and many of our products and services offerings are either awaiting regulatory approvals or in the early stage of commercialization. Outside of collaboration and license fee payments, which vary over time, we have not generated significant revenues, including revenues or royalties from product sales by us or our collaborators. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and predict our future performance. Any assessments of our current business and predictions made about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business will be harmed.. 26. Table of Contents. We may pursue strategic acquisitions and investments which could have an adverse impact on our business if they are unsuccessful.. We have made acquisitions in the past and, if appropriate opportunities become available, we may acquire additional businesses, assets, technologies or products to enhance our business in the future. In connection with any future acquisitions, we could:. • issue additional equity securities, which would dilute our current shareholders;. • incur substantial debt to fund the acquisitions; or. • assume significant liabilities.. Although we conduct due diligence reviews of our acquisition targets, such processes may fail to reveal significant liabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:. • problems integrating the purchased operations, facilities, technologies or products;. • unanticipated costs and other liabilities;. • diversion of management's attention from our core businesses;. • adverse effects on existing business relationships with current and/or prospective collaborators, customers and/or suppliers;. • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and. • potential loss of key employees.. Acquisitions also may require us to record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may acquire companies that have insufficient internal financial controls, which could impair our ability to integrate the acquired company and adversely impact our financial reporting. If we fail in our integration efforts with respect to any of our acquisitions and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected.. As a result of the Company's annual goodwill impairment test, the Company recorded a $13.8 million goodwill impairment charge in the year ended December 31, 2017. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional discussion.. We may encounter difficulties in connection with our acquisitions.. We cannot be certain that any acquisition will be successful or that we will realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In particular, we may not be able to realize the strategic and operational benefits and objectives we had anticipated. In addition, we may face increased competition in the markets for any acquired products. Any of the following factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. These factors may include:. • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management resources;. • unanticipated expenses related to the acquired operations;. • the impairment of relationships with the acquired customers;. • the impairment of relationships with key suppliers and their ability to meet our demand;. • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business and technology;. • potential liabilities related to litigation involving the acquired companies;. 27. Table of Contents. • potential periodic impairment of goodwill and intangible assets acquired; and. • potential inability to retain, integrate and motivate key personnel.. We own equity interests in several of our collaborators and have exposure to the volatility and liquidity risks inherent in holding their equity.. Our collaborators may have limited capital in which case we may allow them to pay technology access fees, milestone payments or other contractual payments in shares of their common stock or other equity. As a result, we own equity interests in several of our collaborators. Owning equity in our collaborators further increases our exposure to the risks of our collaborators' businesses beyond our dependence on these collaborators to provide market and product development expertise, as well as sales, marketing and regulatory capabilities. Our equity ownership in our collaborators exposes us to volatility and the potential for negative returns. We may have restrictions on resale and/or limited markets to sell our equity ownership. In many cases, our equity position is a minority position which exposes us to further risk as we are not able to exert control over the companies in which we hold securities.. We evaluate prospective collaborators based on a variety of factors such as their capabilities, capacity and expertise in a defined field. The process by which we obtain equity interests in our collaborators and the factors we consider in deciding whether to acquire, hold or dispose of these equity positions may differ significantly from those that an independent investor would consider when purchasing equity interests in the collaborator. One significant factor would include our own expectation as to the success of our efforts to assist the collaborator in developing products enabled by our technologies.. We own common stock of several publicly traded companies and the values of those equity interests are subject to market price volatility. We own preferred stock in publicly traded companies, most of which may be converted into shares of common stock in the future, and the value of these equity interests is subject to fluctuation due to uncertainties of the timing and occurrence of the defined conversion events, the volatility of the underlying common stock, and changes in general economic and financial conditions of the collaborator. For each collaborator where we own equity securities, we make an accounting policy election to present them at either the fair value at the end of each reporting period or using the cost or equity method depending on our level of influence. We have adopted the fair value method of accounting for certain of these securities, and therefore, have recorded them at fair value at the end of each reporting period with the unrealized gain or loss recorded as a separate component of other income or expense, net, for the period. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the aggregate original cost basis of our common stock investments was $102.6 million and $104.0 million, respectively, and the market value was $15.1 million and $23.5 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the aggregate original cost basis of our preferred stock investments was $148.3 million and $127.4 million, respectively, and the market value was $161.2 million and $129.5 million, respectively. The fair value of these securities is subject to fluctuation in the future due to the volatility of the stock market, changes in general economic conditions and changes in the financial conditions of the investee.. The equity of our collaborators may not be publicly traded, and if it is traded publicly, the trading market could be limited or have low trading volume. In some cases, we could hold unregistered shares and we may not have demand registration rights with respect to those shares. We own preferred stock in publicly traded companies that may be converted into shares of common stock, but the timing of that conversion is uncertain and may never occur. If the conversion does not occur, there is a risk that we may not be able to sell the preferred stock. We evaluate whether any discounts for trading restrictions or other basis for lack of marketability should be applied to the fair value of the securities at inception of the ECC or JV. In the event we conclude that a discount should be applied, the fair value of the securities is adjusted at inception of the ECC or JV and re-evaluated at each reporting period thereafter. We have substantial liquidity risk related to these holdings, and we may not be able to sell, or sell quickly, all or part of these equity interests.. In connection with future ECCs or JVs, we may, from time to time, receive from collaborators, both public and private, warrants, rights and/or options, all of which involve special risks. To the extent we receive warrants or options in connection with future ECCs or JVs, we would be exposed to risks involving pricing differences between the market value of underlying securities and our exercise price for the warrants or options, a possible lack of liquidity and the related inability to close a warrant or options position, all of which could ultimately have an adverse effect on our financial position.. We use estimates in determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be required to write down the value of these assets or write up the value of these liabilities, which could adversely affect our financial position.. Our ability to measure and report our financial position and operating results is influenced by the need to estimate the impact or outcome of future events on the basis of information available at the time of the financial statements. An accounting estimate is. 28. Table of Contents. considered critical if it requires that management make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made. If actual results differ from management's judgments and assumptions, then they may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows.. Fair value is estimated based on a hierarchy that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs. Observable inputs are inputs that reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity. Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the reporting entity's own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques into three broad levels whereby the highest priority is given to Level 1 inputs and the lowest to Level 3 inputs.. Over time, as we have expanded the nature of our operations, the number and complexity of estimates we use in determining fair value has increased. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, 22 percent and 35 percent of our consolidated total assets, respectively, were measured at fair value on a recurring basis, including 19 percent and 14 percent as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, which were considered Level 3 valuations. Our largest Level 3 asset carried at fair value is our investment in preferred stock of ZIOPHARM. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis were not a significant portion of our total liabilities. We estimate the fair value of our assets and liabilities using assumptions that we believe are appropriate and are used by market participants. The methodology used to estimate these values is complex and uses asset- and liability-specific data and market inputs for assumptions including interest and discount rates and expected future performance and liquidity dates.. Valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of management's assumptions and the predictability of the relationships that drive the results of our valuation methodologies. Because of the inherent unpredictability in the future performance of the investments requiring Level 3 valuations, we may be required to adjust the value of certain assets, which could adversely affect our financial position.. We rely on our collaborators, subsidiaries and other third parties to deliver timely and accurate information in order to accurately report our financial results in the time frame and manner required by law.. We need to receive timely, accurate and complete information from a number of third parties in order to accurately report our financial results on a timely basis. We rely on our collaborators and subsidiaries to provide us with complete and accurate information regarding revenues, expenses and payments owed to or by us on a timely basis. In addition, we intend to rely on current and future collaborators under our collaboration agreements and JVs to provide us with product sales and cost saving information in connection with royalties, if any, owed to us. If the information that we receive is not accurate, our consolidated financial statements may be materially incorrect and may require restatement, and we may not receive the full amount of consideration to which we are entitled under our collaboration agreements or JVs. Although we have audit rights with these parties, performing such an audit could be expensive and time consuming and may not be adequate to reveal any discrepancies in a timeframe consistent with our reporting requirements. We own a significant equity position in several of our collaborators, including a majority position in two of our collaborators. In the future, we may need to consolidate the financial statements of one or more other collaborators into our consolidated financial statements. Although we have contractual rights to receive information and certifications allowing us to do this, such provisions may not ensure that we receive information that is accurate or timely. As a result, we may have difficulty completing accurate and timely financial disclosures, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $244.3 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes available to offset future taxable income and U.S. federal and state research and development tax credits of $7.7 million prior to consideration of annual limitations that may be imposed under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or Section 382. These carryforwards begin to expire in 2022. As a result of our past issuances of stock, as well as due to prior mergers and acquisitions, certain of Intrexon's net operating losses have been subject to limitations pursuant to Section 382. As of December 31, 2017, Intrexon has utilized all net operating losses subject to Section 382 limitations, other than those losses inherited via acquisitions. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $33.6 million of domestic net operating losses were acquired via acquisition and are limited based on the value of the target at the time of the transaction. Future changes in stock ownership may also trigger an ownership change and, consequently, a Section 382 limitation. As of December 31, 2017, our direct foreign subsidiaries had foreign loss carryforwards of approximately $151.4 million, most of which do not expire.. 29. Table of Contents. The Tax Act introduces certain limitations on utilization of losses that are generated after 2017, generally limiting utilization of those losses to 80 percent of future annual taxable income. However, losses generated after 2017 will generally have an indefinite carryforward period.. The effects of the Tax Act on our business have not yet been fully analyzed and could have an adverse effect on our business.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was signed into law. We are in the process of analyzing the Tax Act and its possible effects on us, including on our subsidiaries. The Tax Act, among other things, reduces the corporate tax rate to 21 percent effective January 1, 2018, eliminates the corporate alternative minimum tax, imposes a new minimum tax on global intangible low-taxed income (\"GILTI\") and implements a modified territorial tax system that includes a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Where a reasonable estimate could be determined, we have recorded provisional amounts in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, which primarily resulted in the write down of our domestic deferred tax assets by $87.5 million as a result of the new corporate tax rate. This reduction in deferred tax assets was fully offset by a reduction in our valuation allowance. We have provisionally estimated our one-time transition tax exposure to be zero.. The provisional amounts we recorded are subject to further refinement within the measurement period prescribed by Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, or SAB 118. As a result, the recorded amounts are subject to change, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates we have utilized to provisionally determine the transition impact.. We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuation.. We have international subsidiaries in a number of foreign countries, including Belgium, Brazil, Canada, England and Hungary. As a consequence, we are exposed to risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We present our consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars. Our international subsidiaries have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Future expenses and revenues of our international subsidiaries are expected to be denominated in currencies other than in U.S. dollars. Therefore, movements in exchange rates to translate from foreign currencies may have an impact on our reported results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Risks related to our technologies and business operations. Ethical, legal and social concerns about synthetic biologically engineered products and processes could limit or prevent the use of products or processes using our technologies, limit consumer acceptance and limit our revenues.. Our technologies and the technologies of our JVs and collaborators involve the use of synthetic biologically engineered products or synthetic biological technologies. Public perception about the safety and environmental hazards of, and ethical concerns over, GE products and processes could influence public acceptance of our and our collaborators' technologies, products and processes.. The subject of genetically modified organisms has received negative publicity, which has aroused public debate. In addition, certain of the products of our operating subsidiaries have been the subject of negative publicity, including AAS, Arctic apples and GE mosquitoes. This adverse publicity has led to, and could continue to lead to, greater regulation and trade restrictions on imports of genetically altered products. Further, there is a risk that products produced using our technologies could cause adverse health effects or other adverse events, which could also lead to negative publicity.. There is also an active and vocal group of opponents to genetically modified organisms who wish to ban or restrict the technology and who, at a minimum, hope to sway consumer perceptions and acceptance of this technology. Their efforts include regulatory legal challenges and labeling campaigns for genetically modified products, as well as application of pressure to consumer retail outlets seeking a commitment not to carry genetically modified products. Further, these groups have a history of bringing legal action against companies attempting to bring new biotechnology products to market. For example, on March 30, 2016, a coalition of non-governmental organizations filed a complaint against the FDA, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and related individuals for their roles in the approval of AAS. We may be subject to future additional litigation brought by one or more of these organizations in their attempt to block the development or sale of our products. In addition, animal rights groups and various other organizations and individuals have attempted to stop genetic engineering activities by pressing for legislation and additional regulation in these areas. We may not be able to overcome the negative consumer. 30. Table of Contents. perceptions and potential legal hurdles that these organizations seek to instill or assert against our products and our business could be harmed.. If we and our collaborators are not able to overcome the ethical, legal and social concerns relating to synthetic biological engineering, products and processes using our technologies may not be accepted. These concerns could result in increased expenses, regulatory scrutiny, delays or other impediments to our programs or the public acceptance and commercialization of products and processes dependent on our technologies or inventions. The ability of us and our collaborators to develop and commercialize products, or processes using our technologies could be limited by public attitudes and governmental regulation.. Inadvertent releases or unintended consequences of releases of synthetic biology technologies by us or others could lead to adverse effects on our business and results of operations.. The synthetic biological technologies that we develop may have significantly enhanced characteristics compared to those found in naturally occurring organisms, enzymes or microbes. While we produce many of these synthetic biological technologies only for use in a controlled laboratory and industrial environment, the release of such synthetic biological technologies into uncontrolled environments could have unintended consequences. Any adverse effect resulting from such a release, by us or others, could have a material adverse effect on the public acceptance of our products and our business and financial condition. Such a release could result in enhanced regulatory activity and we could have exposure to liability for any resulting harm.. We may become subject to increasing regulation in the future.. Our ongoing research and development relies on evaluations in animals, which may become subject to bans or additional regulations. As described above, our research operations are also subject to various environmental regulations. However, while most of the current laws and regulations concerning synthetic biology relate to the end products produced using synthetic biology, this may change. For example, the Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues in December 2010 recommended that the federal government oversee, but not regulate, synthetic biology research. The Presidential Commission also recommended that the government lead an ongoing review of developments in the synthetic biology field and that the government conduct a reasonable risk assessment before the field release of synthetic organisms. Synthetic biology may become subject to additional government regulations as a result of the recommendations, which could require us to incur significant additional capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with these laws and regulations.. We have limited experience bringing new products through development and successful commercialization. Even if our technologies enable new products, we or our collaborators may not be successful in commercializing the products that result from our technologies.. Even if our technologies enable new products, there is no guarantee that we or our collaborators will be successful in creating additional products enabled by our technologies. Furthermore, neither we nor our collaborators may be able to commercialize the resulting products or our collaborators may decide to use other methods competitive with our technologies that do not utilize synthetic biology. Several of our wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries have received regulatory approvals, including AquaBounty and Okanagan. These approvals do not, however, guarantee our success in commercializing the products of these subsidiaries. If we are not successful in commercializing our products, our business could be harmed.. Changing labeling requirements may negatively impact consumer acceptance of the products of our operating subsidiaries.. Under current labeling laws, we are not required to label AAS or our Arctic apples at the retail level as containing genetically modified ingredients. However, because several states either passed or considered new laws specifying varying requirements for labeling products sold at the retail level that contain genetically modified ingredients, the United States Congress passed the Labeling Act to establish a national standard for package labeling for foods containing genetically modified ingredients. The USDA has until July 2018 to implement this new law. Labeling requirements could cause consumers to view the label as either a warning or as an indication that AAS is inferior to traditional Atlantic salmon or Arctic apples are inferior to traditional apples, which could negatively impact consumer acceptance of the products of our operating subsidiaries.. The FDA has only approved a few gene therapies.. The FDA first approved a gene therapy for use in humans in 2017, and to date has only approved a limited number. The field of gene therapies is still very early in development and remains predominantly experimental. Clinical trials with gene therapies have encountered a multitude of significant technical problems in the past, including unintended integration with host DNA leading to serious adverse events, poor levels of protein expression, transient protein expression, viral overload, immune reactions to either viral capsids utilized to deliver DNA, DNA itself, proteins expressed or cells transfected with DNA. There. 31. Table of Contents. can be no assurance that our development efforts or those of our collaborators will be successful, that we or they will receive the regulatory approvals necessary to initiate clinical trials, where applicable, or that we will ever be able to successfully commercialize a product enabled by our technologies. To the extent that we or our collaborators utilize viral constructs or other systems to deliver gene therapies and the same or similar delivery systems demonstrate unanticipated and/or unacceptable side effects in preclinical or clinical trials conducted by ourselves or others, we may be forced to, or elect to, discontinue development of such products.. If we lose key personnel, including key management personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, it could delay our product development programs, harm our research and development efforts, and we may be unable to pursue collaborations or develop our own products.. Our business involves complex operations across a variety of markets and requires a management team and employee workforce that is knowledgeable in the many areas in which we operate. The loss of any key members of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Randal J. Kirk, or the failure to attract or retain other key employees who possess the requisite expertise for the conduct of our business, could prevent us from developing and commercializing our products for our target markets and entering into collaborations or licensing arrangements to execute on our business strategy. In addition, the loss of any key scientific staff, or the failure to attract or retain other key scientific employees, could prevent us from developing our technologies for our target markets and entering into ECCs, JVs or licensing arrangements or from further developing and commercializing our products and services offerings to execute on our business strategy. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, synthetic biology and other technology-based businesses, or due to the unavailability of personnel with the qualifications or experience necessary for our business. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience staffing constraints that will adversely affect our ability to meet the demands of our collaborators and customers in a timely fashion or to support our internal research and development programs. In particular, our product and process development programs are dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists. Competition for experienced scientists and other technical personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to attract and retain such personnel on acceptable terms.. Our planned activities, including the further development and scale-up of operating subsidiaries, will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products and processes developed through our technologies or acquired through strategic or other transactions, especially in the end markets that we seek to penetrate. These activities will require the addition of new personnel, and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. The inability to attract personnel with appropriate skills or to develop the necessary expertise could impair our ability to grow our business.. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our business.. Currently, we are working simultaneously on multiple projects targeting several industries. These diversified operations place increased demands on our limited resources and require us to substantially expand the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians, scientists and other personnel. As our operations expand domestically and internationally, we will need to continue to manage multiple locations and additional relationships with various customers, collaborators, suppliers and other third parties. Our ability to manage our operations, growth and various projects effectively will require us to make additional investments in our infrastructure to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees, which we may be unable to do effectively. As a result, we may be unable to manage our expenses in the future, which may negatively impact our gross margins or operating margins in any particular quarter. In addition, we may not be able to successfully improve our management information and control systems, including our internal control over financial reporting, to a level necessary to manage our growth.. Competitors and potential competitors may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete or garner greater market share than ours.. We do not believe that we have any direct competitors who provide comparable technologies of similar depth and breadth which enable to the same extent the commercialization of products developed using synthetic biology across a broad spectrum of biologically-based industries. However, there are companies that have competing technologies for individual pieces of our proprietary suite of complementary technologies. One portion of our proprietary technology related to DNA synthesis and assembly includes the ability to synthesize new DNA. We believe the following companies engage in the manufacture of DNA components: ATUM, Inc., Blue Heron Biotech, LLC (a subsidiary of OriGene), Integrated DNA Technologies, Inc. (IDT), GenScript USA, Inc., and Life Technologies Corporation, now part of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.. 32. Table of Contents. The synthetic biology industry and each of the commercial sectors we have targeted are characterized by rapid technological change and extensive competition. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Academic institutions also are working in this field. Technological development by others may result in our technologies, as well as products developed by our collaborators using our technologies, becoming obsolete.. The rapidly evolving market for developing GE T-cells in particular, is characterized by intense competition and rapid innovation. Genetically engineering T-cells faces significant competition in the CAR technology space from multiple companies and their collaborators, such as Novartis/University of Pennsylvania, Bluebird Bio/Celgene/Baylor College of Medicine/Five Prime/Gilead Sciences/ViroMed Laboratories, Kite Pharma/National Cancer Institute, Juno Therapeutics/Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center/Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center/Seattle Children's Research Institute, Cellectis/Pfizer/Servier, Adaptimmune/GSK and Bellicum Pharmaceuticals. We face competition from non-cell based treatments offered by other companies such as Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers, Incyte, Merck, and Roche.. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to develop proprietary technologies that can be used by our collaborators to produce products that reach the market in a timely manner and are technologically superior to and/or are less expensive than other products on the market. Certain of our competitors may benefit from local government subsidies and other incentives that are not available to us or our collaborators. As a result, our competitors may be able to develop competing and/or superior technologies and processes, and compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a longer period of time than we or our collaborators can. As more companies develop new intellectual property in our markets, a competitor could acquire patent or other rights that may limit products using our technologies, which could lead to litigation.. We may be sued for product liability.. Each of our collaborations requires the collaborator to indemnify us for liability related to products produced pursuant to the ECC or JV and to obtain insurance coverage related to product liability in amounts considered standard for the industry. We believe that these industry-standard coverage amounts range from $10 million to $40 million in the aggregate. Even so, we may be named in product liability suits relating to products that are produced by our collaborators using our technologies. Moreover, as we develop more products through our own operations and JVs, our potential exposure to such claims will increase. These claims could be brought by various parties, including other companies who purchase products from us or our collaborators or by the end users of the products. We cannot guarantee that our collaborators will not breach the indemnity and insurance coverage provisions of the ECCs or JVs. Further, insurance coverage is expensive and may be difficult to obtain, and may not be available to us or to our collaborators in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. We cannot assure you that we or our collaborators will have adequate insurance coverage against potential claims. In addition, although we currently maintain product liability insurance for our technologies in amounts we believe to be commercially reasonable, if the coverage limits of these insurance policies are not adequate, a claim brought against us, whether covered by insurance or not, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. This insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential losses, and if claims or losses exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may go out of business. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. • reduced resources of our management to pursue our business strategy;. • decreased demand for products enabled by our technologies;. • injury to our or our collaborators' reputations and significant negative media attention;. • withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. • initiation of investigations by regulators;. • product recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions;. • significant costs to defend resulting litigation;. • substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients;. • loss of revenue; and. 33. Table of Contents. • the inability to commercialize any products using our technologies.. We depend on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure.. We rely on various information systems to manage our operations. These systems are complex and include software that is internally developed, software licensed from third parties and hardware purchased from third parties. These products may contain internal errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Failure of these systems could have an adverse effect on our business, which in turn may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities.. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business and are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations governing, among other matters, the use, generation, manufacture, transportation, storage, handling, disposal of, and human exposure to these materials both in the United States and overseas, including regulation by governmental regulatory agencies, such as the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the EPA. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with these laws and regulations.. We have international operations and assets and may have additional international operations and assets in the future. Our international operations and assets may be subject to various economic, social and governmental risks.. Our international operations and any future international operations may expose us to risks that could negatively impact our future results. Our operations may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected in a country with an economy similar to the United States. The additional risks that we may be exposed to in these cases include, but are not limited to:. • tariffs and trade barriers;. • currency fluctuations, which could decrease our revenues or increase our costs in U.S. dollars;. • regulations related to customs and import/export matters;. • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws;. • limited access to qualified staff;. • inadequate infrastructure;. • cultural and language differences;. • inadequate banking systems;. • different and/or more stringent environmental laws and regulations;. • restrictions on the repatriation of profits or payment of dividends;. • crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks or wars;. • nationalization or expropriation of property;. • law enforcement authorities and courts that are weak or inexperienced in commercial matters; and. • deterioration of political relations among countries.. 34. Table of Contents. The agricultural products of several of our operating subsidiaries are subject to disease outbreaks which can increase the cost of production and/ or reduce production harvests, and the loss of existing organisms and germplasm would result in the loss of commercial technology.. Several of the products of our operating subsidiaries, including Trans Ova, Exemplar, AquaBounty and Okanagan, are subject to periodic outbreaks of a variety of diseases. Although these companies take measures to protect their stock, there can be no assurance that a disease will not damage or destroy existing organisms or germplasm. The economic impact of disease to our subsidiaries' production systems can be significant, as farmers must incur the cost of preventive measures, such as vaccines and antibiotics, and then if infected, the cost of lost or reduced harvests.. Our plans to pursue development and commercialization of adoptive cellular therapies based on CAR T-cell therapies, or CARs, are new approaches to cancer treatment that present significant challenges in a competitive landscape and the success of our efforts depends in large part on our owned and licensed intellectual property, and our efforts may be affected by litigation and developments in intellectual property law outside of our control.. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, Precigen, we intend to employ technologies licensed from the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, or MD Anderson, together with our existing suite of proprietary technologies, through both our existing exclusive collaboration agreement with ZIOPHARM and our existing collaboration with Ares Trading S.A., or Ares Trading, a subsidiary of the biopharmaceutical business of Merck KGaA, to pursue the development and commercialization of adoptive cellular therapies based on CARs under control of RheoSwitch technology targeting a variety of cancer malignancies. Because this is a new approach to cancer immunotherapy and cancer treatment generally, developing and commercializing product candidates subjects us and our collaborators to a number of challenges, including:. • obtaining regulatory approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities that have very limited experience with the commercial development of genetically modified T-cell therapies for cancer;. • developing and deploying consistent and reliable processes for engineering a patient's T-cells ex vivo and infusing the engineered T-cells back into the patient;. • possibly conditioning patients with chemotherapy in conjunction with delivering each of the potential products, which may increase the risk of adverse side effects of the potential products;. • educating medical personnel regarding the potential side effect profile of each of the potential products, such as the potential adverse side effects related to cytokine release;. • developing processes for the safe administration of these potential products, including long-term follow-up for all patients who receive the potential products;. • sourcing additional clinical and, if approved, commercial supplies for the materials used to manufacture and process the potential products;. • developing a manufacturing process and distribution network with a cost of goods that allows for an attractive return on investment;. • establishing sales and marketing capabilities after obtaining any regulatory approval required to gain market access and acceptance;. • developing therapies for types of cancers beyond those addressed by the current potential products;. • not infringing the intellectual property rights, in particular, the patent rights, of third parties, including competitors developing alternative CAR T-cell therapies; and. • avoiding any applicable regulatory barriers to market, such as data and marketing exclusivities held by third parties, including competitors with approved CAR T-cell therapies.. We cannot be sure that T-cell immunotherapy technologies developed in our collaborations will yield satisfactory products that are safe and effective, scalable, or profitable.. 35. Table of Contents. We and our collaborators are dependent on patents, know-how, and proprietary technology in our collaborations, both our own and licensed from others. Any termination of these licenses could result in the loss of significant rights and could harm our ability to commercialize our product candidates. Disputes may also arise between us and these licensors regarding intellectual property subject to a license agreement, including those relating to:. • the scope of rights granted under the license agreement and other interpretation-related issues;. • whether and the extent to which our technology and processes, and the technology and processes of our collaborators, infringe on intellectual property of the licensor that is not subject to the license agreement;. • our right to sublicense patent and other rights to third parties under collaborative development relationships;. • whether we and our collaborators are complying with our diligence obligations with respect to the use of the licensed technology in relation to our development and commercialization of our potential products under our collaborations; and. • the allocation of ownership of inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by our licensors and by us and our collaborators.. If disputes over intellectual property that we or our collaborators have licensed in connection with our collaboration prevent or impair our or our collaborators ability to maintain our current licensing arrangements, particularly with MD Anderson, on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize the affected potential products. We are generally also subject to all of the same risks with respect to protection of intellectual property that we license as we are for intellectual property that we own. If we or our licensors fail to adequately protect this intellectual property, our ability to commercialize potential products under our collaborations could suffer.. Because our gene therapy technology is novel, it is difficult to predict the time and cost of development and of subsequently obtaining regulatory approval.. There can be no assurance that we, including our subsidiaries and our collaborators, will not experience problems or delays in developing new product candidates and that such problems or delays will not cause unanticipated costs, or that any such development problems can be solved. We also may experience unanticipated problems or delays in expanding our manufacturing capacity, which may prevent the completion of clinical trials and the commercializing of products on a timely or profitable basis, if at all. For example, we, a collaborator or another group may uncover a previously unknown risk with any of our product candidates, and this may prolong the period of observation required for obtaining regulatory approval or may necessitate additional clinical testing.. In addition, the clinical trial requirements of the FDA, European Medicines Agency, or EMA, and other regulatory authorities and the criteria these regulators when evaluating product candidates vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use and market of such product candidates. The regulatory approval process for novel product candidates such as ours can be more expensive and take longer than for other, better known or more extensively studied product candidates. Even if we and our collaborators are successful in developing product candidates, it is difficult to determine how long it will take or how much it will cost to obtain regulatory approvals in either the United States or the European Union or how long it will take to commercialize these product candidates.. Regulatory requirements governing gene and cell therapy products have changed frequently and may continue to change in the future. For example, the FDA has established the Office of Cellular, Tissue and Gene Therapies within the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, or CBER, to consolidate the review of gene therapy and related products, and has established the Cellular, Tissue and Gene Therapies Advisory Committee to advise CBER in its review. Gene therapy clinical trials conducted at institutions that receive funding for recombinant DNA research from U.S. National Institutes of Health, or NIH, also potentially are subject to review by the NIH office of Biotechnology Activities' Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee, or RAC; however, NIH has announced that the RAC will only publicly review clinical trials if the trials cannot be evaluated by standard oversight bodies and pose unusual risks. Although the FDA decides whether individual gene therapy protocols may proceed, the RAC public review process, if undertaken, can delay the initiation of a clinical trial, even if the FDA has reviewed the trial design and details and approved its initiation. Conversely, the FDA can put an IND on a clinical hold even if the RAC has provided a favorable review or an exemption from in-depth, public review. In addition, adverse developments in clinical trials of gene therapy products conducted by others may cause the FDA or other oversight bodies to change the requirements for approval of any of our product candidates and those of our collaborators.. 36. Table of Contents. There is a high failure rate for drugs and biologics proceeding through clinical trials, at all stages of development.. Results from preclinical studies or previous clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future clinical trial results, and interim results of a clinical trial are not necessarily indicative of final results. Our product candidates and those of our collaborators may fail to show the desired results in clinical development despite demonstrating positive results in preclinical studies or having successfully advanced through initial clinical trials.. There is a high failure rate for drugs and biologics proceeding through clinical trials. Many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in preclinical testing and earlier-stage clinical trials. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, we and our collaborators may experience regulatory delays or rejections as a result of many factors, including changes in regulatory policy during the period of product candidate development. Any such delays could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our and our collaborators' product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval, limit the commercial potential or result in significant negative consequences following any potential marketing approval.. There have been several significant adverse side effects in gene therapy treatments in the past, including reported cases of leukemia and death seen in other trials using other vectors. While new recombinant vectors and other approaches have been developed to reduce these side effects, gene therapy and synthetic biology therapy in general is still a relatively new approach to disease treatment and additional adverse side effects could develop. There also is the potential risk of delayed adverse events following exposure to these products due to persistent biologic activity of the genetic material or other components of products used to carry the genetic material.. Other possible adverse side effects that could occur with treatment with synthetic biology products include an immunologic reaction early after administration which, while not necessarily adverse to the patient's health, could substantially limit the effectiveness of the treatment. In previous clinical trials involving adeno-associated virus, or AAV, vectors for gene therapy, some subjects experienced the development of a T-cell response, whereby after the vector is within the target cell, the cellular immune response system triggers the removal of transduced cells by activated T-cells. If similar effect occurs with our or our collaborators' products, we or our collaborators may decide or be required to halt or delay further clinical development of our product candidates.. Additionally, if any of our or our collaborators' product candidates receives marketing approval, FDA could require us to adopt a REMS to ensure that the benefits outweigh its risks, which may include, among other things, a medication guide outlining the risks of the product for distribution to patients and a communication plan to health care practitioners. Such requirements could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of our product candidates and could significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. We and our collaborators may find it difficult to enroll patients in clinical trials, which could delay or prevent us and our collaborators from proceeding with clinical trials.. Identifying and qualifying patients to participate in clinical trials of our and our collaborators' product candidates is critical to success. The timing of clinical trials depends on the ability to recruit patients to participate as well as completion of required follow-up periods. If patients are unwilling to participate in our or our collaborators' clinical studies for any number of reasons, such as because of negative publicity from adverse events related to the biotechnology or gene therapy fields, the timeline for recruiting patients, conducting studies and obtaining regulatory approval may be delayed. These delays could result in increased costs, delays in advancing product candidates, or termination of the clinical trials altogether.. Even if we and our collaborators complete the necessary clinical trials, we cannot predict when, or if, we and our collaborators will obtain regulatory approval to commercialize a product candidate and the approval may be for a more narrow indication than we seek.. We and our collaborators cannot commercialize a product candidate until the appropriate regulatory authorities have reviewed and approved the product candidate. Even where product candidates meet their endpoints in clinical trials, the regulatory authorities may not complete their review processes in a timely manner, or may not grant regulatory approval. Additional delays may result if an FDA Advisory Committee or other regulatory authority recommends non-approval or restrictions on approval. In addition, we and our collaborators may experience delays or rejections based upon additional government. 37. Table of Contents. regulation from future legislation or administrative action, or changes in regulatory authority policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and the review process.. Regulatory authorities also may approve a product candidate for more limited indications than requested or they may impose significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings or a REMS. These regulatory authorities may require precautions or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use or they may grant approval subject to the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials. In addition, regulatory authorities may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. Any of the foregoing scenarios could materially harm the commercial prospects for our product candidates and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Even if we or our collaborators obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, the product will remain subject to regulatory oversight.. Even if we and our collaborators obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, these candidates will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements for manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, sampling, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information. Regulatory approvals also may be subject to a REMS, limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials, and surveillance to monitor the quality, safety and efficacy of the product. For example, the holder of an approved Biologics License Application, or BLA, is obligated to monitor and report adverse events and any failure of a product to meet the specifications in the BLA. The FDA guidance advises that patients treated with some types of gene therapy undergo follow-up observations for potential adverse events for as long as 15 years. The holder of an approved BLA also must submit new or supplemental applications and obtain FDA approval for certain changes to the approved product, product labeling or manufacturing process. Advertising and promotional materials must comply with FDA rules and are subject to FDA review, in addition to other potentially applicable federal and state laws.. In addition, product manufacturers and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMPs requirements and adherence to commitments made in the U.S. or foreign marketing application. If we, our collaborators, or a regulatory authority, discover previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured or disagrees with the promotion, marketing or labeling of that product, a regulatory authority may impose restrictions relative to that product, the manufacturing facility or us, including requiring recall or withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing.. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements following approval of any of our product candidates, a regulatory authority may take adverse actions, which include, among other things, a range of sanctions from issuing a warning letter to causing us to withdraw the product from the market.. In addition, the FDA's policies, and those of equivalent foreign regulatory agencies, may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Risks related to manufacturing human therapeutics. Synthetic biology therapies are novel, complex and difficult to manufacture. We or our collaborators could experience production problems that result in delays in product development or commercialization programs or otherwise adversely affect our business.. The manufacturing processes that we and our collaborators use to produce synthetic biology product candidates for human therapeutics are complex, novel and have not been validated for commercial use. Several factors could cause production interruptions, including equipment malfunctions, facility contamination, raw material shortages or contamination, natural disasters, disruption in utility services, human error or disruptions in the operations of our suppliers.. 38. Table of Contents. Our and our collaborators' synthetic biology product candidates require processing steps that are more complex than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. Moreover, unlike chemical pharmaceuticals, the physical and chemical properties of a biologic often cannot be fully characterized. As a result, assays of the finished product may not be sufficient to ensure that the product will perform in the intended manner. Accordingly, it is necessary to employ multiple steps to control our manufacturing process to assure that the product candidate is made strictly and consistently in compliance with the process. Problems with the manufacturing process, even minor deviations from the normal process, could result in product defects or manufacturing failures that result in lot failures, product recalls, product liability claims or insufficient inventory. We or our collaborators may encounter problems achieving adequate quantities and quality of clinical-grade materials that meet FDA, EMA or other applicable standards or specifications with consistent and acceptable production yields and costs.. Any problems in our manufacturing process or facilities could make us a less attractive collaborator for potential partners, which could limit our access to additional attractive development programs.. Delays in obtaining regulatory approval of manufacturing processes and facilities or disruptions in manufacturing processes may delay or disrupt our commercialization efforts.. Before we or our collaborators can begin to commercially manufacture our product candidates for human therapeutics, we must obtain regulatory approval from the FDA for the applicable manufacturing process and facility. A manufacturing authorization must also be obtained from the appropriate European Union regulatory authorities. In addition, the manufacturing facility must pass a pre-approval inspection by the FDA before any of our product candidates can obtain marketing approval. In order to obtain approval, we will need to ensure that all of the processes, methods and equipment are compliant with cGMP, and perform extensive audits of vendors, contract laboratories and suppliers. If any of our vendors, contract laboratories or suppliers is found to be out of compliance with cGMP, we may experience delays or disruptions in manufacturing while we work with these third parties to remedy the violation or while we work to identify suitable replacement vendors. The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation policies and procedures. In complying with cGMP, we will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we would be subject to possible regulatory action and may not be permitted to sell any products that we may develop.. Ethical, legal and social issues related to genetic testing may reduce demand for our product candidates, if approved.. We anticipate that prior to receiving certain cellular, gene, or other synthetic biology therapies, patients may be required to undergo genetic testing. Genetic testing has raised concerns regarding the appropriate utilization and the confidentiality of information provided by genetic testing. Genetic tests for assessing a person's likelihood of developing a chronic disease have focused public attention on the need to protect the privacy of genetic information. For example, concerns have been expressed that insurance carriers and employers may use these tests to discriminate on the basis of genetic information, resulting in barriers to the acceptance of genetic tests by consumers. This could lead to governmental authorities prohibiting genetic testing or calling for limits on or regulating the use of genetic testing, particularly for diseases for which there is no known cure. Any of these scenarios could decrease demand for our product candidates, if approved.. The commercial success of any of our and our collaborators' product candidates will depend upon the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community.. Ethical, social and legal concerns about cellular, gene or other synthetic biology therapies could result in additional regulations restricting or prohibiting our products. Even with the requisite approvals from the FDA in the United States, EMA in the European Union and other regulatory authorities internationally, the commercial success of product candidates will depend, in part, on the acceptance of physicians, patients and health care payors of synthetic biology therapy products in general, and our and our collaborators' product candidates in particular, as medically necessary, cost-effective and safe. Any product that we or our collaborators commercialize may not gain acceptance by physicians, patients, health care payors and others in the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may or our collaborators may not generate significant product revenue to make the products profitable.. 39. Table of Contents. Risks associated with our business strategy. The continued evolution of our business strategy and the restructuring of our business and assets may not be a successful strategy and may increase our capital requirements, increase our costs or otherwise harm our operating results and financial condition.. Our business strategy has evolved, and continues to evolve, toward relationships and structures that provide us with more control and ownership over the development process and commercialization path. This new strategy or approach entails risks in implementation and operations and there is no guarantee that it will be successful. Furthermore, the changing focus of our business strategy may require additional capital beyond what we have historically used and what is available and we may incur costs associated with the implementation and execution of our changing business strategy. In addition, as we perform our annual impairment tests, we will evaluate the impact of changes in our business strategy and, as a result, may incur impairment charges and write-offs and other related expenses, any of which, if material, could harm our operating results and financial condition.. If we fail to maintain and successfully manage our existing ECCs or JVs, we may not be able to develop and commercialize our technologies and achieve or sustain profitability.. We have entered into ECCs or JVs with strategic collaborators to develop products enabled by our technologies. There can be no guarantee that we can successfully manage these ECCs or JVs. We must use diligent efforts to carry out development activities under the ECCs. The exclusivity provisions of each ECC restrict our ability to commercialize our technologies in the designated field covered by the ECC. In most cases, the collaborator may terminate the ECC with us for any reason upon 90 days' notice. In all cases, the ECC may be terminated if we fail to exercise diligent efforts or breach, and fail to cure, other provisions of the ECC. In addition, since our efforts to date have focused on a small number of collaborators in certain targeted sectors, our business could be adversely affected if one or more of these collaborators terminate their ECCs or JVs, fail to use our technologies or fail to develop commercially viable products enabled by our technologies.. Ongoing dependence on ECCs or JVs also will subject us to other risks, including:. • we have relinquished important rights regarding the commercialization, marketing and distribution of products and we may disagree with our collaborators' plans in these areas;. • although we retain broad rights with respect to intellectual property developed under the ECCs, our collaborators have the right, under certain circumstances, to take control of the enforcement of such intellectual property;. • we may have lower revenues than if we were to develop, manufacture, market and distribute products enabled by our technologies ourselves;. • a collaborator could, without the use of our synthetic biology technologies, develop and market a competing product either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors;. • our collaborators could be undercapitalized or fail to secure sufficient resources to fund the development and/or commercialization of the products enabled by our technologies in accordance with the ECC;. • our collaborators could become unable or less willing to expend their resources on research and development or commercialization efforts with respect to our technologies due to general market conditions, their financial condition or other circumstances beyond our control;. • we may be unable to manage multiple simultaneous ECCs or JVs or fulfill our obligations with respect thereto;. • disagreements with a collaborator could develop and any conflict with a collaborator could reduce our ability to enter into future ECCs or JVs and negatively impact our relationships with one or more existing collaborators;. • our collaborators could terminate our ECC or JV with them, in which case, our collaborators may retain rights related to certain products, we may not be able to find another collaborator to develop different products in the field and we may not be able to develop different products in the field ourselves;. • our business could be negatively impacted if any of our collaborators undergo a change of control to a third party who is not willing to work with us on the same terms or commit the same resources as our current collaborator; and. 40. Table of Contents. • our collaborators may operate in countries where their operations could be adversely affected by changes in the local regulatory environment or by political unrest.. If any of these events occur, or if we fail to maintain our ECCs or JVs with our collaborators, we may not be able to commercialize our existing and potential technologies, grow our business or generate sufficient revenues to support our operations.. Certain of our collaborators, including some businesses over which we have significant influence, will need additional capital.. In order for certain of our collaborators to execute on their business plans, they will have future capital requirements. We may be asked to, or need to, invest additional funds in these collaborators so that they can execute on their business plans. If we fail to invest such additional funds, the collaborator may not have sufficient capital to continue operations.. We rely on our collaborators to develop, commercialize and market certain products, and they may not be successful.. We depend on our collaborators to commercialize certain products enabled by our technologies. If our collaborators are not able to successfully develop the products enabled by our technologies, none of these enabled products will become commercially available and we will receive no back-end payments under our ECCs or JVs. Because we do not currently and may never possess the resources necessary to independently develop and commercialize all of the potential products that may result from our technologies, our ability to succeed in certain markets depends on our ability to develop and commercialize potential products through an ECC or JV. Some of our existing collaborators do not themselves have the resources necessary to commercialize products and they in turn will need to rely on additional sources of financing or third party collaborations. In addition, pursuant to our current ECCs or JVs and similar ECCs or JVs that we may enter into in the future, we have limited or no control over the amount or timing of resources that any collaborator is able or willing to devote to developing products or collaborative efforts. Any of our collaborators may fail to perform its obligations under the ECC. Our collaborators may breach or terminate their ECCs or JVs with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. If any of these events were to occur, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The sales process for strategic transactions or JVs may be lengthy and unpredictable, and we may expend substantial funds and management effort with no assurance of successfully entering into such transactions to commercialize our technologies.. Historically, the sales process for our ECCs and JVs has at times been lengthy and unpredictable. Our evolving focus on consummating strategic transactions and JVs may be equally or more challenging to consummate. Our sales and licensing efforts may require the effective demonstration of the benefits, value, differentiation, validation of our products, technologies and services and significant education and training of multiple personnel and departments within the potential collaborator's organization. We may expend substantial funds and management effort with no assurance that we will execute a transaction or otherwise sell our products, technologies or services. In addition, this lengthy sales cycle makes it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue in future periods and may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly in such periods.. We have entered into a number of ECCs and JVs to date, and we require collaborators to successfully commercialize the products enabled by our technologies.. Our current ECCs and JVs may not be successful. Moreover, because we have limited financial and managerial resources, we will be required to prioritize our application of resources to particular development efforts. Any resources we expend on one or more of these efforts could be at the expense of other potentially profitable opportunities. If we focus our efforts and resources on one or more of these markets and they do not lead to commercially viable products, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Many of our current collaborators have no experience producing products at the commercial scale needed for the development of their business, and they will not succeed if they cannot effectively commercialize their products.. To the extent we continue to depend on collaborations to develop products with our technologies, our collaborators must demonstrate the ability to utilize our technologies to produce desired products at the commercial scale and on an economically viable basis or they must collaborate with others to do so. The products and processes developed using our technologies may not perform as expected when applied at commercial scale, or our collaborators may encounter operational challenges for which we and they are unable to devise a workable solution. For example, contamination in the production process could. 41. Table of Contents. decrease process efficiency, create delays and increase our collaborators' costs. Moreover, under the terms of our ECCs or JVs, we limit the ability of our collaborators to partner their programs with third parties. We and our collaborators may not be able to scale up our production in a timely manner, if at all, even if our collaborators successfully complete product development in their laboratories and pilot and demonstration facilities. If this occurs, the ability of our collaborators to commercialize products and processes using our technologies will be adversely affected, and, with respect to any products that are brought to market, our collaborators may not be able to lower the cost of production, which would adversely affect our ability to increase the future profitability of our business.. Markets in which we, our JVs, and collaborators are developing products using our technologies are subject to extensive regulation, and we rely on our JVs and collaborators to comply with all applicable laws and regulations.. Our technologies are used in products that are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities. We depend on our JVs and collaborators to comply with these laws and regulations with respect to products they produce using our technologies and we do not independently monitor whether our collaborators comply with applicable laws and regulations. If either we, our JVs or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we are subject to substantial financial and operating risks because, in addition to our own compliance, we also depend on our JVs and collaborators to produce the end products enabled by our technologies for sale, and because, in many cases, we have, or in the future may have, a substantial equity interest in our JVs and collaborators. These regulatory risks are extensive and include the following:. • complying with these regulations, including seeking approvals, the uncertainty of the scope of future regulations, and the costs of continuing compliance with regulations could affect our sales and profitability and that of our JVs and collaborators and materially impact our operating results;. • our business could be adversely affected if our processes and those used by our JVs and collaborators to manufacture their final products fail to be approved by the applicable regulatory authorities;. • where products are subject to regulatory approval, the regulatory approval process can be lengthy, costly, time consuming and inherently unpredictable, and if we and our JVs and collaborators are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval for products using our technologies, our business will be substantially harmed;. • even if we and our JVs and collaborators are able to commercialize products using our technologies, the product may become subject to post-approval regulatory requirements, unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party payor reimbursement practices or regulatory reform initiatives that could harm our business;. • we and our JVs and collaborators conduct on-going research and development that relies on evaluations in animals, which may become subject to bans or additional regulations;. • compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on the development and commercialization of products using our technologies; and. • to the extent products produced using our technologies are commercialized outside the United States, they will be subject to additional laws and regulations under the jurisdictions in which such products are commercialized.. The markets in which we and our collaborators are developing products using our technologies are highly competitive.. The markets in which we and our collaborators are developing products are, and will continue to be, highly competitive, and there can be no assurance that we or our collaborators will be able to compete effectively. There are numerous companies presently in these markets that are developing products that may compete with, and could adversely affect the prices for, any products developed by our collaborators using our technologies. Many of these competitors and potential competitors are well-established companies with significant resources and experience, along with well-developed distribution systems and networks for their products, valuable historical relationships with potential customers and extensive sales and marketing programs for their products. Some of these competitors may use these resources and their market influence to impede the development and/or acceptance of the products developed by our collaborators using our technologies.. To the extent that any of our collaborators' competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor or our collaborators are forced to reduce, or are unable to raise, the price of any products enabled by our technologies in order to remain competitive, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Competitive pressure could arise from, among other things, safety and efficacy concerns, limited demand or a significant number of additional competitive products being introduced into a particular market, price reductions by competitors, the ability of competitors to. 42. Table of Contents. capitalize on their economies of scale, the ability of competitors to produce or otherwise procure products similar or equivalent to those of our collaborators at lower costs and the ability of competitors to access more or newer technology than our collaborators can access (including our own).. Our right to terminate our ECCs is limited.. Generally, we do not have the right to terminate an ECC except in limited circumstances such as the collaborator's failure to exercise diligent efforts in performing its obligations under the ECC, including its development of products enabled by our technologies, or its breach of a term of the ECC that remains uncured for a specified period of time. Moreover, each of our collaborators receives an exclusive license to use all of our technologies in a designated field, potentially in perpetuity. The collaborators we choose in particular fields may not be in the best position to maximize the value of our technologies in that field, if they are capable of commercializing any products at all. In addition, the scope of the field for a particular ECC may prove to be too broad and result in the failure to maximize the value of our technologies in that field.. A significant portion of our business is conducted by JVs that we cannot operate solely for our benefit.. In JVs we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the JV. JVs are intended to be operated for the benefit of all JV partners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a JV often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. In JVs we are required to foster our relationships with our JV partners as well as promote the overall success of the JV, and if a JV partner changes or relationships deteriorate, our success in the JV may be materially adversely affected. The benefits from a successful JV are shared among the JV partners, so we do not receive all the benefits from our successful JVs. Moreover, as a partial owner of a JV, we are exposed to potential risks and liabilities that we do not face when we enter into an ECC.. Risks related to our intellectual property. Our ability to compete may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary technologies or if we lose some of our intellectual property rights through costly litigation or administrative proceedings.. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the United States and abroad for our suite of technologies and resultant products and potential products. We have adopted a strategy of seeking patent protection in the United States and abroad with respect to certain of the technologies used in or relating to our products and processes. We have also in-licensed rights to additional patents and pending patent applications in the United States and abroad. We intend to continue to apply for patents relating to our technologies, methods and products as we deem appropriate.. We have strategic positioning with respect to our key technologies including patent portfolios directed to: our switch technology covering aspects of our gene switches, such as our RheoSwitch Therapeutic System, and gene modulation systems, vectors, cells and organisms containing these switches, and their use; our activator ligand technology covering aspects of our activator ligands and their use; and our cell identification and selection technology covering aspects of our cell identification and selection platform, including our cell purification, isolation, characterization and manipulation technologies. We have also filed counterpart patents and patent applications in other jurisdictions, including Australia, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Africa and Taiwan. In the future we may file in these or additional jurisdictions as deemed appropriate for the protection of our technologies.. The enforceability of patents, as well as the actual patent term and expiration thereof, involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, the extent of enforceability cannot be guaranteed. Issued patents and patents issuing from pending applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Moreover, the United States Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, enacted in September 2011, brought significant changes to the U.S. patent system, which include a change to a \"first to file\" system from a \"first to invent\" system and changes to the procedures for challenging issued patents and disputing patent applications during the examination process, among other things. These changes could increase the costs and uncertainties surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our patent rights. Additional uncertainty may result from legal precedent handed down by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and United States Supreme Court as they determine legal issues concerning the scope and construction of patent claims and inconsistent interpretation of patent laws by the lower courts. Accordingly, we cannot ensure that any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents, or even if issued, predict the breadth of the claims upheld in our and other companies' patents. Given that the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, we cannot ensure that we were the first. 43. Table of Contents. to invent the inventions covered by our pending patent applications, we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions, the patents we have obtained, particularly certain patents claiming nucleic acids, proteins, or methods, are valid and enforceable, and the proprietary technologies we develop will be patentable.. In addition, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in certain foreign countries where the local laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Moreover, third parties could practice our inventions in territories where we do not have patent protection. Such third parties may then try to import into the United States or other territories products, or information leading to potentially competing products, made using our inventions in countries where we do not have patent protection for those inventions. If competitors are able to use our technologies, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. Moreover, others may independently develop and obtain patents for technologies that are similar to or superior to our technologies. If that happens, we may need to license these technologies, and we may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, which could harm our business.. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technologies, especially in cases when we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require our employees, academic collaborators, collaborators, consultants and other contractors to enter into confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary or licensed information. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary and licensed technologies and other confidential information, our ability and that of our licensor to receive patent protection and our ability to protect valuable information owned or licensed by us may be imperiled. Enforcing a claim that a third-party entity illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how.. Litigation or other proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from commercializing our technologies or impact our stock price.. Our commercial success also depends in part on not infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties, and not breaching any licenses or other agreements that we have entered into with regard to our technologies, products and business. We cannot ensure that patents have not been issued to third parties that could block our or our collaborators' ability to obtain patents or to operate as we would like. There may be patents in some countries that, if valid, may block our ability to make, use or sell our products in those countries, or import our products into those countries, if we are unsuccessful in circumventing or acquiring the rights to these patents. There also may be claims in patent applications filed in some countries that, if granted and valid, also may block our ability to commercialize products or processes in these countries if we are unable to circumvent or license them.. The biotechnology industry is characterized by frequent and extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Many companies have employed intellectual property litigation as a way to gain a competitive advantage. Our involvement in litigation, interferences, opposition proceedings or other intellectual property proceedings inside and outside of the United States, to defend our intellectual property rights or as a result of alleged infringement of the rights of others, may divert management time from focusing on business operations and could cause us to spend significant amounts of money. Some of our competitors may have significantly greater resources and, therefore, they are likely to be better able to sustain the cost of complex patent or intellectual property litigation than we could. The uncertainties associated with litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our business or to enter into additional collaborations with others. Furthermore, any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us or our collaborators to do one or more of the following:. • stop selling, incorporating or using products that use the intellectual property at issue;. • obtain from the third party asserting its intellectual property rights a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or. • redesign those products or processes that use any allegedly infringing technology, or relocate the operations relating to the allegedly infringing technology to another jurisdiction, which may result in significant cost or delay to us, or which could be technically infeasible.. The patent landscape in the field of synthetic biology is particularly complex. We are aware of U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications of third parties that cover various aspects of synthetic biology including patents that some may. 44. Table of Contents. view as covering aspects of our technologies. In addition, there may be patents and patent applications in the field of which we are not aware. In many cases, the technologies we develop are early-stage technologies and we and our collaborators are just beginning the process of designing and developing products using these technologies. Although we will seek to avoid pursuing the development of products that may infringe any patent claims that we believe to be valid and enforceable, we and our collaborators may fail to do so. Moreover, given the breadth and number of claims in patents and pending patent applications in the field of synthetic biology and the complexities and uncertainties associated with them, third parties may allege that we or our collaborators are infringing upon patent claims even if we do not believe such claims to be valid and enforceable.. Except for claims we believe will not be material to our financial results, no third party has asserted a claim of infringement against us. Others may hold proprietary rights that could prevent products using our technologies from being marketed. Any patent-related legal action against persons who license our technologies, our collaborators or us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to products using our technologies or our processes could subject us to potential liability for damages and require our licensor or us to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market such products or any future product candidates that use our technologies. We cannot predict whether we or our licensor would prevail in any such actions or that any license required under any of these patents would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we cannot be sure that any such products or any future product candidates or processes could be redesigned to avoid infringement, if necessary. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or the failure to obtain necessary licenses, could prevent our collaborators from developing and commercializing products using our technologies, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.. If any of our competitors have filed patent applications or obtained patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, to determine priority of invention and, thus, the right to the patents for these inventions in the United States. These proceedings could result in substantial cost to us even if the outcome is favorable. Even if successful, an interference may result in loss of certain of our important claims.. Any litigation or proceedings could divert our management's time and efforts. Even unsuccessful claims could result in significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion of management time, and disruption in our business. Uncertainties resulting from initiation and continuation of any patent or related litigation could harm our ability to compete.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process. Given the size of our intellectual property portfolio, compliance with these provisions involves significant time and expense. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case.. If we do not obtain additional protection under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments and similar foreign legislation by extending the patent terms and obtaining data exclusivity for our technologies, our business may be materially harmed.. Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of FDA marketing approval of products using our technologies, one or more of the U.S. patents we own or license may be eligible for limited patent term restoration under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, we may not be granted an extension because of, for example, failing to apply within applicable deadlines, failing to apply prior to expiration of relevant patents or otherwise failing to satisfy applicable requirements. Moreover, the applicable time period or the scope of patent protection afforded could be less than we request. If we are unable to obtain patent term extension or restoration or the term of any such extension is less than we request, our competitors may obtain approval of competing products following our patent expiration, and our ability to generate revenues could be materially adversely affected.. Enforcing our intellectual property rights may be difficult and unpredictable.. If we were to initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent claiming one of our technologies, the defendant could counterclaim that our patent is invalid and/or unenforceable or assert that the patent does not cover its manufacturing processes, manufacturing components or products. Proving patent infringement may be difficult, especially where it is possible. 45. Table of Contents. to manufacture a product by multiple processes. Furthermore, in patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging both invalidity and unenforceability are commonplace. Although we believe that we have conducted our patent prosecution in accordance with the duty of candor and in good faith, the outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability during patent litigation is unpredictable. With respect to the validity of our patent rights, we cannot be certain, for example, that there is no invalidating prior art, of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or unenforceability, we would not be able to exclude others from practicing the inventions claimed therein. Such a loss of patent protection could have a material adverse impact on our business. Even if our patent rights are found to be valid and enforceable, patent claims that survive litigation may not cover commercially valuable products or prevent competitors from importing or marketing products similar to our own, or using manufacturing processes or manufacturing components similar to those used to produce the products using our technologies.. Although we believe we have obtained assignments of patent rights from all inventors, if an inventor did not adequately assign their patent rights to us, a third party could obtain a license to the patent from such inventor. This could preclude us from enforcing the patent against such third party.. We may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to synthetic biology. This could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or misappropriation of our other intellectual property rights. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Accordingly, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights in such countries may be inadequate.. If our technologies or products using our technologies are stolen, misappropriated or reverse engineered, others could use the technologies to produce competing technologies or products.. Third parties, including our collaborators, contract manufacturers, contractors and others involved in our business often have access to our technologies. If our technologies, or products using our technologies, were stolen, misappropriated or reverse engineered, they could be used by other parties that may be able to reproduce our technologies or products using our technologies for their own commercial gain. If this were to occur, it would be difficult for us to challenge this type of use, especially in countries with limited intellectual property protection.. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosures of trade secrets and other proprietary information.. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, but these measures may not be effective. We require our new employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual's relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. Nevertheless, our proprietary information may be disclosed, third parties could reverse engineer our technologies or products using our technologies and others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.. Risks related to our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, shareholders should rely on stock appreciation for return on their investment.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future and intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the operations, development and growth of our business. As a result, appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur, will provide a return to shareholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. We have on two occasions distributed equity securities to our shareholders as a special stock dividend: 17,830,305 shares of ZIOPHARM common stock were distributed in June 2015 and. 46. Table of Contents. 1,776,557 shares of AquaBounty common stock were distributed in January 2017. However, it is possible that we may never declare a special dividend again and shareholders should not rely upon potential future special dividends as a source of return on their investment.. Our stock price is volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses.. Our stock price has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risks described in this \"Risk Factors\" section, or for reasons unrelated to our operations, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions or negative announcements by our collaborators regarding their own performance, as well as industry conditions and general financial, economic and political instability. From January 1, 2016 through February 15, 2018, our common stock has traded as high as $40.24 per share and as low as $10.26 per share. The stock market in general as well as the market for biopharmaceutical companies in particular has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including, among others:. • announcements of acquisitions, collaborations, financings or other transactions by us;. • public concern as to the safety of our products;. • termination or delay of a development program;. • the recruitment or departure of key personnel; and. • the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research or reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our shares of common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to cover us, the trading price for our shares of common stock may be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our shares of common stock, changes their opinion of our shares or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our shares of common stock could decrease and we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price and trading volume to decline.. If our executive officers and directors choose to act together, they may be able to control our management and operations, acting in their own best interests and not necessarily those of other shareholders.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers and directors owned approximately 51 percent of our voting common stock, including shares subject to outstanding options and warrants. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, would be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions, as well as our management and affairs. The interests of this group of shareholders may not always coincide with the interests of other shareholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other shareholders. This concentration of ownership control may:. • delay, defer or prevent a change in control;. • entrench our management and/or the board of directors; or. • impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us that other shareholders may desire.. We have engaged in transactions with companies in which Randal J. Kirk, our Chief Executive Officer, and his affiliates have an interest.. We have engaged in a variety of transactions, including ECCs, with companies in which Mr. Kirk and affiliates of Mr. Kirk have a direct or indirect interest. See Notes 5, 14, 18 and 22 to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report for a discussion of such transactions. For example, we are party to a services agreement with Third Security,. 47. Table of Contents. or Services Agreement with Third Security, for which Third Security provides certain services to us in return for a monthly fee of shares of our common stock. Mr. Kirk serves as the Senior Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Third Security and owns 100 percent of the equity interests of Third Security. We believe that each of these transactions was on terms no less favorable to us than terms we could have obtained from unaffiliated third parties, and each of these transactions was approved by at least a majority of the disinterested members of the audit committee of our board of directors. In addition, subsequent to our consummation of the ECCs with certain related parties, Mr. Kirk and his affiliates invested in these companies. Furthermore, as we execute on these ECCs or JVs going forward, a conflict may arise between our interests and those of Mr. Kirk and his affiliates.. As of December 31, 2017, Randal J. Kirk controlled approximately 47 percent of our common stock and is able to control or significantly influence corporate actions, which may result in Mr. Kirk taking actions contrary to the desires of our other shareholders.. We have historically been controlled, managed and principally funded by Randal J. Kirk, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and affiliates of Mr. Kirk, including Third Security. As of December 31, 2017, Mr. Kirk and shareholders affiliated with him beneficially owned approximately 47 percent of our voting stock, including 1,207,980 shares of our common stock purchased by an affiliate of Mr. Kirk in a private placement which closed in December 2017. Affiliates of Mr. Kirk purchased 1,000,000 shares of our common stock as part of our public offering which closed in January 2018. In addition, pursuant to a Preferred Stock Equity Facility, or Preferred Stock Facility, we may, from time to time at our sole and exclusive option, issue and sell to an affiliate of Mr. Kirk up to 1,000,000 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock, which will be convertible into shares of our common stock upon the approval of our shareholders, subject to regulatory approval, at a conversion rate based on future market prices. Mr. Kirk is able to control or significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of Mr. Kirk may not always coincide with the interests of other shareholders, and he may take actions that advance his personal interests and are contrary to the desires of our other shareholders.. In connection with the Preferred Stock Facility, we have filed an amendment to our articles of incorporation to set the designations of our new Series A Preferred Stock with terms that are preferential to those of our common stock.. Our articles of incorporation authorize us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. In connection with our Preferred Stock Facility, we filed an amendment to our articles of incorporation to set the designations of our Series A Preferred Stock, which, if and when issued, will have certain preferences over our common stock, including accrued dividends of 8 percent per annum and, subject to limited exceptions, seniority to our common stock with respect to the rights to the payment of dividends and on parity with our common stock with respect to the distribution of assets in the event of a liquidation, dissolution, or winding up or change of control of the Company.. After December 31, 2020, the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock, if and when issued, may require us to redeem any or all of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock.. If we are unable to obtain the approval of our shareholders to convert any outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock prior to December 31, 2020, the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock may require us to redeem any or all of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock at the issue price of $100 per share plus any accumulated but unpaid dividends thereon to, but not including, the redemption date, subject to adjustments. Any such redemption of our Series A Preferred Stock in cash would reduce the cash that we have available to invest in our business. In the event that we have issued Series A Preferred Stock and redemption is required, there can be no assurance that we will have enough cash at such time to redeem the outstanding shares.. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares of common stock is restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares of common stock intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. If Mr. Kirk or any of his affiliates were to sell a substantial portion of the shares they hold, it could cause our stock price to decline.. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, there were 11,382,747 shares subject to outstanding options that will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by any applicable vesting requirements, lock-up agreements and Rules 144 and. 48. Table of Contents. 701 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Shares issuable upon the exercise of such options can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance and once vested. Additionally, we have 4,747,496 of shares available for grant under the 2013 Omnibus Incentive Plan.. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and under Virginia law that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our Company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders.. Certain provisions of Virginia law, the commonwealth in which we are incorporated, and our articles of incorporation and bylaws could hamper a third party's acquisition of us, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions include:. • a provision allowing our board of directors to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any vote or action by the holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of common stock;. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on at shareholder meetings;. • the inability of shareholders to convene a shareholders' meeting without the support of shareholders owning together 25 percent of our common stock;. • the application of Virginia law prohibiting us from entering into a business combination with the beneficial owner of 10 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock for a period of three years after the 10 percent or greater owner first reached that level of stock ownership, unless we meet certain criteria;. • allow the authorized number of our directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors;. • limit the manner in which shareholders can remove directors from the board;. • require that shareholder actions must be effected at a duly called shareholder meeting and prohibit actions by our shareholders by written consent; and. • limit who may call a special meeting of shareholders.. These provisions also could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, these provisions make it more difficult for our shareholders, should they choose to do so, to remove our board of directors or management.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, shareholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or any subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock."
