[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. An investment in our common stock involves a significant degree of risk. You should not invest in our common stock unless you can afford to lose your entire investment. You should consider carefully the following risk factors and other information in this report before deciding to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and you could lose your entire investment in our company.. We rely on three customers for a significant portion of our revenues. We are reliant upon Yahoo!, Google and OpenX for most of our revenue. During 2017 they accounted for 66.7%, 10.4% and 9.4% of our revenues, respectively, and in 2016 accounted for 68.6%, 29.7% and 0% of our revenues. The amount of revenue we receive from these customers is dependent on a number of factors outside of our control, including the amount they charge for advertisements, the depth of advertisements available from them, and their ability to display relevant ads in response to our end-user queries.. We would likely experience a significant decline in revenue and our business operations could be significantly harmed if (i) these customers do not approve our new websites, publishers and / or applications, (ii) if we or our publishers violate their guidelines or they change their guidelines, or (iii) if our contracts with these customers are terminated or expire without being renewed.  In addition, if any of these preceding circumstances were to occur, we may not be able to find a suitable alternate paid search results provider or otherwise replace the lost revenues.  Our contracts with each of these customers contain broad termination provisions and our Yahoo! contract expires in May 2018, our Google contract expires in February 2019 and our OpenX contract is terminable on twenty-four hours notice. The loss of any of these customers or a material change in the revenue or gross profit they generate would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition in future periods.. We are dependent upon relationships with and the success of our supply partners. Our supply partners are very important to our success. We must recruit and maintain partners who are able to drive traffic successfully to their websites and mobile applications, resulting in clicks on advertisements we have delivered. These partners may experience difficulty in attracting and maintaining users for a number of reasons, including competition, rapidly changing markets and technology, industry consolidation and changing consumer preferences. Further, we may not be able to further develop and maintain relationships with distribution partners. They may be able to make their own deals directly with advertisers, may view us as competitors or may find our competitors offerings more desirable. Any of these potential events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. The success of our owned sites is dependent on our ability to acquire traffic in a profitable manner. Our ALOT-branded websites are dependent on our ability to attract traffic in a profitable manner. We use a predictive model to calculate the rate of return for marketing campaigns, which includes estimates and assumptions. If these estimates and assumptions are not accurate, we may not be able to effectively manage our marketing decisions and could acquire traffic in an unprofitable manner. In addition, we may not be able to maintain and grow our traffic for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, acceptance of our websites by consumers, the availability of advertising to promote our websites, competition, and sufficiency of capital to purchase advertising. We advertise on search engine websites to drive traffic to our owned and operated websites. Our keyword advertising is done primarily with Google and Facebook, but also with Yahoo! and Bing. If we are unable to maintain and grow traffic to our sites in a profitable manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Failure to comply with the covenants and restrictions in our credit facility could impact our ability to access capital as. 8. needed. We have a credit facility with Western Alliance Bank (\"Western Alliance Bank\"), the parent company of Bridge Bank, N.A. our original lender, under which we had $4.9 million in debt outstanding as of December 31, 2017. The credit facility matures in September 2018 and while we believe we will be able to renew with substantially similar terms and conditions, there are no assurances that we will be able to renew. In that event, our liquidity in future periods would be materially adversely impacted.  In addition, the credit facility contains a number of covenants that requires us to, among other things:. • pay fees to the lender associated with the credit facility;. • meet prescribed financial covenants;. • maintain our corporate existence in good standing;. • grant the lender a security interest in our assets;. • provide financial information to the lender; and. • refrain from any transfer of any of our business or property, subject to customary exceptions.. We have historically had difficulties meeting the financial covenants set forth in our credit agreement. Our lender has given us waivers in the past and reset our financial covenants several times. In the event of a breach of our covenants we cannot provide any assurance that our lender would provide a waiver or reset our covenants. A breach in our covenants could result in a default under the credit facility, and in such event Western Alliance Bank could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, if any, to be due and payable. If this occurs and we have outstanding obligations and are not able to repay, Western Alliance Bank could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay the debt amounts and could then proceed against the underlying collateral. Should this occur, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay our debt in full, we would be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the debt, or that we would be able to obtain a waiver to cure any such default. In such an event, our ability to conduct our business as it is currently conducted would be in jeopardy.. Our business must keep pace with rapid technological change to remain competitive. Our business operates in a market characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service announcements, enhancements, and changing customer demands. We must adapt to rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and continually improve the speed, performance, features, ease of use and reliability of our services. This includes making our products and services compatible and maintaining compatibility with multiple operating systems, desktop and mobile devices, and evolving network infrastructure. If we fail to do this, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.. Our quarterly operating results can be difficult to predict and can fluctuate substantially, which could result in volatility in the price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenues and other operating results have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our agreements with distribution partners and key customers do not require minimum levels of usage or payments, and our revenues therefore fluctuate based on the actual usage of our service each quarter by existing and new distribution partners. Quarterly fluctuations in our operating results also might be due to numerous other factors, including:. • our ability to attract new distribution partners, including the length of our sales cycles, or to sell increased usage of our service to existing distribution partners;. • technical difficulties or interruptions in our services;. • changes in privacy protection and other governmental regulations applicable to our industry;. • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors;. • the financial condition and business success of our distribution partners;. • purchasing and budgeting cycles of our distribution partners;. • acquisitions of businesses and products by us or our competitors;. • competition, including entry into the market by new competitors or new offerings by existing competitors;. • discounts offered to advertisers by upstream advertising networks;. • our history of litigation;. • our ability to hire, train and retain sufficient sales, client management and other personnel;. • timing of development, introduction and market acceptance of new services or service enhancements by us or our competitors;. • concentration of marketing expenses for activities such as trade shows and advertising campaigns;. • expenses related to any new or expanded data centers; and. • general economic and financial market conditions.. Our services may be interrupted if we experience problems with our network infrastructure. The performance of our network infrastructure is critical to our business and reputation. Because our services are delivered solely through the internet, our. 9. network infrastructure could be disrupted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to:. • unexpected increases in usage of our services;. • computer viruses and other security issues;. • interruption or other loss of connectivity provided by third-party internet service providers;. • natural disasters or other catastrophic events; and. • server failures or other hardware problems.. While we have data centers in multiple, geographically dispersed locations and active back-up and disaster recovery plans, we cannot assure you that serious interruptions will not occur in the future. If our services were to be interrupted, it could cause loss of users, customers and business partners, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could harm our business. Our success depends in part on the retention of personnel critical to our business operations. Loss of key personnel may result in disruption of operations, loss of key business relationships or expertise, additional recruiting and training costs, and diminished anticipated benefits of acquisitions. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our key senior management. We have experienced difficulty from time to time in attracting or retaining the personnel necessary to support the growth of our business, and we may experience similar difficulties in the future.. Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business. While there are currently relatively few laws or regulations directly applicable to internet-based commerce or commercial search activity, there is increasing awareness of such activity and interest from state and federal lawmakers in regulating these services. New regulation of activities in which we are involved or the extension of existing laws and regulations to internet-based services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.. Failure to comply with federal, state and international privacy and data security laws and regulations, or the expansion of current or the enactment of new privacy and data security laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business. A variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data. In addition, various federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies may expand current or enact new laws regarding privacy matters. For example, recently there have been Congressional hearings and increased attention to the capture and use of location-based information relating to users of smartphones and other mobile devices, and internationally the European Union's new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) goes into effect in May 2018. We have posted privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of subscriber data on our websites and applications. The existing and soon to be enacted privacy and data security related laws and regulations are evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations.  Several Internet companies have incurred penalties for failing to abide by the representations made in their privacy policies and practices. In addition, several states have adopted legislation that requires businesses to implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices to protect sensitive personal information and to provide notice to consumers in the event of a security breach. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, FTC requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws, including the GDPR, regulations or industry self-regulatory principles could result in claims, proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others or other liabilities, which could adversely affect our business.. We may face third party intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in the loss of significant rights. From time to time third parties have asserted infringement claims against us including copyright, trademark and patent infringement, among other things. While we believe that we have defenses to these types of claims under appropriate trademark laws, we may not prevail in our defenses to any intellectual property infringement claims. In addition, we may not be adequately insured for any judgments awarded in connection with any litigation. Any such claims and resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages or result in the invalidation of our proprietary rights, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we were to prevail, these claims could be time-consuming, expensive to defend, and could result in the diversion of management's time and attention.. We are subject to risks from publishers who could fabricate clicks either manually or technologically. Our business involves the establishment of relationships with website owners and publishers. In exchange for their consumer traffic, we provide an advertising placement service and share a portion of the revenue we collect with that website publisher. Although we have click fraud detection software in place, we cannot guarantee that we will identify all fraudulent clicks or be able to recover funds distributed for fabricated clicks. This risk could materially impact our ability to borrow, our cash flow and the stability of our business.. 10. Our business is seasonal and our financial results may vary significantly from period to period. Our future results of operations may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year because of numerous factors, including seasonality. Historically, in the later part of the fourth quarter and the earlier part of the first quarter we experience lower Revenue Per Click (\"RPC\") due to a decline in demand for inventory on website and app space and the recalibrating of advertiser's marketing budgets after the holiday selling season. If we are not able to appropriately adjust to seasonal or other factors, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. A downturn or uncertainty in global economic conditions may have a significant negative effect on our access to credit and our ability to raise capital and may impact our business, operating results or financial condition. A future downturn or uncertainty in global economic conditions, may result in significant reductions in, and heightened credit quality standards for, available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit and substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, which may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional credit, when needed, on acceptable terms or at all. Moreover, deteriorated economic conditions, or the threat of a prolonged recessionary period, may cause disruptions and volatility in global financial markets, increased rates of default and bankruptcy and have a negative impact on the levels of consumer spending. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential customers, such as advertisers, may delay or decrease spending with us or may not pay us or may delay paying us for previously performed services. In addition, if consumer spending decreases, this may result in fewer clicks on our advertisers' ads displayed on our or our partner websites.. Failure to comply with the covenants and restrictions in our grant agreement with the State of Arkansas could result in the repayment of a portion of the grant, which we may not be able to repay or finance on favorable terms. In January 2013, we entered into an agreement with the State of Arkansas whereby we were granted $1,750,000 for the relocation of the Company to Arkansas and for the purchase of equipment.  The grant was contingent upon us having at least 50 full-time equivalent permanent positions within four years, maintaining at least 50 full-time equivalent permanent positions for the following six years and paying those positions an average total compensation of $90,000 per year.  As of December 31, 2017, the grant required we have 50 employees located in Arkansas and on December 31, 2017 we had 50 employees located in Arkansas.. If we fail to meet the requirements of the grant after the initial four-year period, we may be required to repay a portion of the grant, up to but not to exceed the full amount of the grant. Should this occur, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay our grant in full, we would be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the grant, or that we would be able to obtain a waiver to cure any such default. In such an event, our ability to conduct our business as it is currently conducted would be in jeopardy.. Significant dilution will occur if outstanding warrants and options are exercised or restricted stock unit grants vest. As of December 31, 2017, we had stock options outstanding to purchase a total of 264,246 shares with exercise prices ranging from $0.56 to $3.70 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $2.84. We also had 1,071,538 restricted stock units outstanding. If outstanding stock options are exercised or restricted stock units vest, dilution will occur to our stockholders, which may be significant. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details."
