[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. The company's business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. One should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the company's other filings with the SEC, before making any investment decision with respect to the company's securities. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones the company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known by the company or that the company currently deems immaterial may also affect the company's business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties occur, develop or worsen, the company's business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change substantially.. The company is subject to a consent decree of injunction (\"consent decree\") with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (\"FDA\"), the effects of which have been, and continue to be, costly to the company and could result in continued adverse consequences to the company's business.. In December 2012, the company became subject to a consent decree of injunction filed by FDA with respect to the company's Corporate facility and its Taylor Street manufacturing facility in Elyria, Ohio. The consent decree initially limited the company's (i) manufacture and distribution of power and manual wheelchairs, wheelchair components and wheelchair sub-assemblies at or from its Taylor Street manufacturing facility, except in verified cases of medical necessity, (ii) design activities related to wheelchairs and power beds that take place at the impacted Elyria facilities and (iii) replacement, service and repair of products already in use from the Taylor Street manufacturing facility. Under the terms of the consent decree, in order to resume full operations, the company had to successfully complete independent, third-party expert certification audits at the impacted Elyria facilities, comprised of three distinct certification reports separately submitted to, and accepted by, FDA; submit its own report to the FDA; and successfully complete a reinspection by FDA of the company's Corporate and Taylor Street facilities.. On July 24, 2017, following its reinspection, FDA notified the company that it was in substantial compliance with the QSR and, at that time, the company was permitted to resume full operations at those facilities including the resumption of unrestricted sales of products made in those facilities.. The consent decree will continue in effect for a minimum of five years from July 24, 2017, during which time the company's Corporate and Taylor Street facilities must complete two semi-annual and then four annual audits. performed by a company retained expert firm. The expert audit firm will determine whether the facilities remain in continuous compliance with the FDA Act, regulations and the terms of the consent decree. The FDA has the authority to inspect these facilities and any other FDA registered facility, at any time. The FDA also has the authority to order the company to take a wide variety of remedial actions if the FDA finds that the company is not in compliance with the consent decree or FDA regulations. The FDA also has authority under the consent decree to assess liquidated damages for any violations of the consent decree, FDA regulations or the FDA Act. Any such failure by the company to comply with the consent decree or FDA regulations, or any need to complete significant remediation as a result of any such audits or inspections, or actions taken by the FDA as a result of any such failure to comply, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. The limitations previously imposed by the FDA consent decree negatively affected net sales in the NA/HME segment and, to a certain extent, the Asia/Pacific segment beginning in 2012. The limitations led to delays in new product introductions. Further, uncertainty regarding how long the limitations would be in effect limited the company's ability to renegotiate and bid on certain customer contracts and otherwise led to a decline in customer orders.. Although the company has been permitted to resume full operations at the Corporate and Taylor Street facilities, the negative effect of the consent decree on customer orders and net sales in the NA/HME and Asia/Pacific segments has been considerable, and it is uncertain as to whether, or how quickly, the company will be able to rebuild net sales to more typical historical levels, irrespective of market conditions. Accordingly, when compared to the company's 2010 results, the previous limitations in the consent decree had, and likely may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. The company's failure to comply with medical device regulatory requirements or receive regulatory clearance or approval for the company's products or operations in the United States or abroad could adversely affect the company's business.. The company's medical devices are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by FDA, and by similar governmental authorities in the foreign countries where the company does business. FDA regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device's development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, promotion, distribution and marketing. In addition, the company is required to file reports with FDA if the company's products may have caused, or contributed to, a death or serious injury, or if they malfunction and would be. 14"
