[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks, many of which are described below. If any of the events described in these risks factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, which would likely have a corresponding impact on the value of our common stock. Further, the risk factors described below could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. These risk factors should be reviewed carefully.. We may require additional capital to support our business, and such capital may not be available.. 7. Table of Contents. We believe that based on our current revenue prospects, our anticipated cash flows from operations, and our existing equity financing agreement available to us, our existing cash balances may not be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. We intend to continue to make investments to support business and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, which include the need to develop new solutions and partnerships or enhance existing solutions and partnerships, enhance our operating infrastructure, expand our sales and marketing capabilities, and acquire complementary businesses, technologies or assets. Accordingly, we may need to engage in additional equity or debt financing to secure funds. Equity and debt financing, however, might not be available when needed or, if available, might not be available on terms satisfactory to us. If we raise additional funds through equity financing, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, our ability to continue to support our business and to respond to business challenges would be significantly limited as we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our initiatives, or significantly reduce operating expenses, which would harm our operating results.. The sale of common stock to Aspire Capital may cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and the sale of the shares of common stock acquired by Aspire Capital could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. On November 17, 2017, we entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement (\"CSPA\") with Aspire Capital in which Aspire Capital committed to purchase, at our election, up to an aggregate of $10.0 million shares of common stock over a period of 24 months. Through December 31, 2017, we have issued 3,108,153 shares of common stock to Aspire Capital under the CSPA for gross proceeds of approximately $1.2 million. From January 1, 2018 through March 8, 2018, we sold an additional 1,200,000 shares for $0.5 million. We may ultimately sell all of the amount of common stock remaining under the CSPA to Aspire Capital, and Aspire Capital may sell all, some or none of our shares that it holds or comes to hold under the CSPA. Shares acquired by Aspire Capital pursuant to the CSPA will result in dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by Aspire Capital, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we might otherwise deem acceptable. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of sales of our shares to Aspire Capital, and the CSPA may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any penalty or cost to us.. Our revenue and overall profitability may be adversely impacted by material reductions in existing customer and partner purchase commitments.. Our customers and partners have traditionally agreed to contractual provisions that require them to pay the greater of the fees generated from the use of our services or a minimum committed amount over a pre-determined period of time. Minimum commitments are negotiated by customers to improve their unit pricing, effectively guaranteeing a certain volume to achieve a reduced unit price. Recent global economic conditions in certain cases caused our customers and partners to generate fees from the use of our services that are significantly less than their minimum committed amounts. Consequently, this shortfall has caused some partners and customers upon renewal of their contracts with us, to renew with a lower minimum commitment and in some cases with no minimum commitment. Additionally, in some cases partners and customers are requesting a re-evaluation of their minimum commitments on a prospective basis during the term of their existing contract; to maintain these commercial relationships, we have addressed these requests on a contract by contract basis. The reduction or elimination of minimum purchase commitments could result in lower future revenues.. Significant dependency on key network providers could negatively affect our revenues.. There are certain venues (hotels, airports, airplanes, cafes, etc.) globally where we depend on key providers for network access in those venues. Additionally, in certain geographies we depend on a small number of providers for a large portion of network access. If such a provider were to go out of business, terminate their agreement with us, or encounter technical difficulties such that network access was not available to our customers for an extended period of time, it could have a negative impact on our revenues and profitability if we cannot find an alternative provider to enable network access in those venues or geographies.. If we do not accurately predict network usage for our Flat Rate or iPass UNLIMITED price plans, our costs could increase without a corresponding increase in network revenue.. A significant number of our customers have purchased our Flat Rate network price plans, and we are signing new customers to our iPass UNLIMITED plan. In these plans, our customers pay a flat rate price to access our network services. However, in some situations we continue to pay our providers based on actual network usage (pay-as-you-go). The rate we charge in these plans is based on statistical predictions of usage across a pool of users within a customer. If actual. 8. Table of Contents. usage is higher than expected, our expenses may increase without a commensurate increase in revenues, and our ability to achieve profitability could be negatively impacted.. Starting in 2014, we implemented certain fixed rate buying structures with some providers to mitigate this risk. However, buying network access at a fixed rate creates additional risk if our customers were to use less Wi-Fi than anticipated in the future, which could result in our costs exceeding our revenues and could negatively impact our profitability.. If demand for mobile connectivity services does not grow or grows in ways that do not require use of our services, we may experience a decline in revenues and profitability.. The growth of our business is dependent, in part, upon the increased use of mobile connectivity services and our ability to capture a higher proportion of this market. If the demand for mobile connectivity services does not continue to grow, or grows in ways that do not require use of our services, then we may not be able to grow our business, or achieve profitability. Increased usage of our services depends on numerous factors, including:. • Willingness of enterprises to make additional information technology expenditures;. • Availability of security services necessary to ensure data privacy over a variety of networks;. • Quality, cost and functionality of our services and competing services;. • Increased adoption of wireless broadband access methods and our ability to support these new methods;. • Proliferation of smartphones, tablets and mobile handheld devices and related applications, and our ability to provide valuable services and support for those devices;. • Our ability to partner with mobile network operators and service providers that are willing to stimulate consumer awareness and adoption of our services; and. • Our ability to timely implement technology changes to our services to meet evolving industry standards for mobile devices, Wi-Fi network access and customer business requirements.. Customer adoption and deployment of our platform has been slower than we expected, and if it does not increase, our ability to significantly grow our services business and achieve profitability could be harmed.. The future success of our business will depend in large part on our current and prospective customers' timeliness of adoption and deployment of our platform and related services. Key risks associated with our platform and services are as follows:. Customer adoption and deployment of our platform may be slow. We believe that the growth of our business is dependent on the timely adoption and deployment of our platform by our customers. A material delay in the adoption and deployment of the platform by our customers, will adversely impact our ability to grow revenues and achieve profitability.. Customer deployment of our platform may not result in increased use of our services. We believe it is important to the future success of our business that users of our services increase their usage and network services to validate our value proposition. We believe that the deployment by our customers of our platform will lead to increased usage of our platform services and correspondingly, our network services, which will lead to an increase in our revenue. We also believe increased deployment of our platform will generate additional data and more intrinsically valuable data analytics, both of which are critical to growing our Veri-Fi  product revenues. However, even if a significant portion of our customers deploy our platform, there is no guarantee that our customers will use our services more frequently.. Our platform may have technical limitations that cause our customers to delay adoption or deployment. There is risk that the platform may contain technological limitations, bugs or errors that would cause our customers to not adopt or delay the adoption of the platform. If some or all of these risks associated with our platform were to occur, adoption and deployment of our platform may not occur and our business could be harmed.. We rely significantly on information technology to accurately provision, service, and bill our customers and any failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could negatively impact our ability to onboard and service our customers or report on our financial performance on a timely basis.. A key component of our ability to attract and retain customers is the timely and accurate furnishing of monthly detail billing records of activity on our network, rated for the agreements in place with both our customers and our suppliers. Our ability to meet these billing requirements, as well as to effectively manage and maintain our books and records, and internal reporting requirements, depends significantly on our internal information technology. In addition, our information. 9. Table of Contents. technology infrastructure is designed to process large volumes of users and data, but any unanticipated capacity constraints could harm our ability to onboard and service our customers.. If our strategic and channel partners do not successfully market our services to their customers, then our ability to grow our revenues could be impaired.. We sell our services directly through our sales force and indirectly through our strategic and channel partners, which include telecommunication carriers, systems integrators, value-added resellers, OEMs, and business to business to consumer partnerships. A large percentage of our sales outside of the United States are made through these partners. Our business depends on the efforts and the success of these partners in marketing our services to their customers. Our own ability to promote our services directly to our partners' customers is often limited. Many of our partners may offer services to their customers that may be similar to, or competitive with, our services. Therefore, these partners may not actively promote our services. If our partners fail to market our services effectively, our ability to grow our revenue could be reduced and our business may be impaired.. If our Strategic Partnership service offerings do not achieve expanded market acceptance, our ability to grow our business could be harmed.. Our Strategic Partnership service offerings incorporate our platform, global authentication fabric, and global Wi-Fi network to provide reseller, wholesale, and partners around the world with the infrastructure to offer their customers new Mobile Connectivity Services. We have entered into contracts with a number of customers for our Strategic Partnership services, but ramping revenues takes time to develop. We have devoted significant resources to building our Strategic Partnership service line of business. If Strategic Partnership service offerings do not achieve expanded market acceptance and generate meaningful revenues, or if these partners fail financially, our financial condition may be harmed.. If key global Wi-Fi venues offer \"no charge\" Internet access to all users, our network revenues could be negatively affected.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from providing Wi-Fi access in certain key venues (e.g., hotels, airports, trains, and cafes). In general, these venues charge their customers for Wi-Fi access. If these venues begin offering Wi-Fi access at no charge, the amount we can charge our customers for Wi-Fi access at these venues will likely decrease or we may not charge our customers for Wi-Fi access at these venues. We are proponents of free Wi-Fi as our service platform overlays benefits for all connectivity; security, ease of use, and broad coverage. And we have engaged partnerships to include free Wi-Fi in our available footprint. As we migrate more of our users to our UNLIMITED offering, pay-as-you-go pricing becomes less relevant to our revenue streams and the risk of free Wi-Fi decreases.. We may be exposed to credit risk, collection risk and payment delinquencies on our accounts receivable.. A substantial majority of our outstanding accounts receivables are not secured. Our standard terms and conditions permit payment within a specified number of days following the receipt of our services. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our collection risk and avoid losses. In addition, under poor global economic conditions, certain of our customers have faced and may face liquidity concerns and have delayed and may delay or may be unable to satisfy their payment obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. To compete we must attract and retain key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of operations.. To compete we must attract and retain executives, sales representatives, engineers and other key employees. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, sales representatives and engineers are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in our industry can be intense. If we experience an unexpected significant turnover of our executives, sales representatives, engineers and other key employees it will be difficult to achieve our business objectives and could adversely impact our results of operations.. If licenses to third party technologies do not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all, our business and operations may be adversely affected.. We license technologies from several software providers that are incorporated into our services. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology from third parties in the future. Licenses to third party technologies may not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all. The loss of the right to use these technologies or other technologies that we license could have an adverse effect on our services and increase our costs or cause interruptions, degradations or delays in our services until substitute technologies, if available, are developed or identified, licensed and successfully integrated into our services.. 10. Table of Contents. Our sales cycles are lengthy and could require us to incur substantial costs that may not result in related revenues.. Our Strategic Partnership revenue stream is characterized by a lengthy sales cycle. Once a contract with a partner is signed there is typically an extended period before the customer or customer's end-users begin to use our services, which is when we begin to realize revenues. As a result, we may invest a significant amount of time and effort in attempting to secure a customer which may not result in any revenues in the near term. Even if we enter a contract, we may have incurred substantial sales-related expenses well before we recognize any related revenues. If the expenses associated with sales efforts increase and, we are not successful in our sales efforts, or we are unable to generate associated offsetting revenues in a timely manner, our operating results could be harmed.. Our software is complex and may contain errors that could damage our reputation and decrease usage of our services.. Our software may contain errors that interrupt network access or have other unintended consequences. If network access is disrupted due to a software error, or if any other unintended negative results occur, such as the loss of billing information, a security breach, unauthorized access to our cloud-based platform or the introduction of a virus by our software onto our customers' computers or networks, our reputation could be harmed and our business may suffer. Our contracts generally limit our exposure to incidental and consequential damages and to the extent possible, we further limit our exposure by entering into insurance policies that are designed to protect our customers and us from these and other types of losses. If these contractual provisions are not enforced or enforceable, or if liabilities arise that are not effectively limited or insured, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed.. Cybersecurity risks and privacy concerns related to Internet-based services could reduce demand for our services.. The secure transmission of confidential information and mission critical data when using Internet-based services is extremely important to our customers. A key component of our ability to attract and retain customers is the security measures that we have engineered into our network for the authentication of the end-user's credentials. These measures are designed to protect against unauthorized access to our customers' networks. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures against unauthorized access or sabotage. If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs, that is attributable to our services, the market perception of the effectiveness of our cybersecurity measures could be harmed resulting in a negative impact to our business.. As part of providing our services, we collect certain aggregated information about the users of our service. As such we must comply with evolving laws and regulations regarding the protection and disclosure of such user information. While we have taken steps to comply with applicable privacy laws and regulations and to protect user information, any well-publicized compromises of our users' data may reduce demand for our services and harm our business.. Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and international laws and regulation regarding privacy and data protection. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business.. Regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, including measures to ensure that encryption of users' data does not hinder law enforcement agencies' access to that data. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. These legislative and regulatory proposals, if adopted, and such interpretations could, in addition to the possibility of fines, result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. Recent legal developments in Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding certain transfers of personal data from Europe to the United States. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), coming into application in the European Union (\"EU\") on May 25, 2018, will apply to some of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services that we offer to EU users. The GDPR will create a range of new compliance obligations, which could cause us to change our business practices, and will significantly increase financial penalties for noncompliance (including possible fines of up to 4% of global annual turnover for the preceding financial year or \20020 million (whichever is higher) for the most serious infringements).. In addition, the European Commission in July 2016 and the Swiss Government in January 2017 approved the EU-U.S. and the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks, respectively, which are designed to allow U.S. companies that self-. 11. Table of Contents. certify to the U.S. Department of Commerce and publicly commit to comply with the Privacy Shield requirements to freely import personal data from the EU and Switzerland. However, these frameworks face a number of legal challenges and their validity remains subject to legal, regulatory and political developments in both Europe and the U.S. This has resulted in some uncertainty, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. If we are unable to meet the challenges posed by Wi-Fi access, our ability to profitably grow our business may be impaired.. A substantial portion of the growth of our business has depended, and will continue to depend, in part upon our ability to expand our global Wi-Fi network. Such an expansion may not result directly in additional revenues to us, but building and maintaining a large footprint is key to our value proposition. Key challenges in expanding our Wi-Fi network include:. The Wi-Fi access market continues to develop at a rapid pace. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from wireless broadband \"hotspots,\" such as certain airports, hotels, airplanes and convention centers. The Wi-Fi access market continues to develop rapidly, in particular: the market for enterprise connectivity services through Wi-Fi is characterized by evolving industry standards and specifications and there is currently no uniform standard for Wi-Fi access. Furthermore, although the use of wireless frequencies generally does not require a license in the United States and abroad, if Wi-Fi frequencies become subject to licensing requirements, or are otherwise restricted, this would substantially impair the growth of Wi-Fi access. Some large telecommunications providers and other stakeholders that pay large sums of money to license other portions of the wireless spectrum may seek to have the Wi-Fi spectrum become subject to licensing restrictions. In addition, certain government agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission (\"FCC\") may implement policies and regulations that limit the value of our services to certain segments of our customers. If the Wi-Fi access market develops in ways that limit access growth, our ability to generate substantial revenues from Wi-Fi access could be harmed.. The Wi-Fi service provider market is highly fragmented. There are currently many Wi-Fi service providers that provide coverage in only one or a small number of hotspots. We have entered into contractual relationships with numerous Wi-Fi service providers. These contracts generally have an initial term of two years or less. We must continue to develop relationships with many providers on terms commercially acceptable to us to provide adequate coverage for our customers' mobile workers and Strategic Partners' devices and to expand our Wi-Fi coverage. We may also be required to develop additional technologies to integrate new wireless broadband services into our service offering. If we are unable to develop these relationships or technologies, our ability to grow our business could be impaired.. Consolidation of large Wi-Fi service providers may impair our ability to expand network service coverage, negotiate favorable network access terms, and deliver consistent service in our network. The telecommunications industry is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. These factors may cause large Wi-Fi network service providers to consolidate, which would reduce the number of network service providers from which we are able to obtain network access in key locations. If significant consolidation occurs, we will have a smaller number of network service providers to acquire Wi-Fi network access from and we may not be able to provide additional or sufficient redundant access points in some geographic areas, which could diminish our ability to provide broad, reliable, redundant coverage. Further, our ability to negotiate favorable access rates from Wi-Fi network service providers could be impaired, which could increase our network access expenses and harm our operating results.. Wi-Fi service provider actions may restrict our ability to sell our services. Some Wi-Fi network providers restrict our ability to sell access to their networks to our resellers whom they consider competitive with them. This can reduce our revenue by limiting the footprint our partners can make available to their customers.. If competitive cellular data roaming rates decline precipitously, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted.. For our network services to be attractive to our customers, the cost of cellular roaming must be meaningfully greater than the cost of our Wi-Fi network services. Currently, in certain geographies such as Asia, cellular roaming prices are not significantly higher than our rates for Wi-Fi access. In Europe, legislation has enacted mandating the reduction of wholesale cellular roaming prices. If cellular roaming prices do not remain meaningfully higher than our Wi-Fi network prices, then our ability to sell our Mobile Connectivity Services could be impacted and our business harmed. It is our intention to continue to drive the price of Wi-Fi down to insure Wi-Fi connectivity remains an economically viable and customer preferred connectivity option.. We face competition in the market for mobile connectivity services, which could make it difficult for us to succeed.. 12. Table of Contents. While we do not believe there are service providers in the mobile connectivity services market that offer a platform or range of services in an integrated offering as we do, we compete with a variety of service providers, including facilities-based carriers, cloud-based platform operators and mobility management solution providers. Some of these providers have substantially greater resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories and/or greater name recognition than we have. In addition, we face the following challenges:. Many of our competitors can compete on price. Because many of our facilities-based competitors own and operate physical networks they may be able to provide additional hotspot access at little incremental cost to them. As a result, they may offer network access services at a lower cost, and may be willing to discount or subsidize network access services to capture other sources of revenue. In contrast, we have traditionally purchased network access from facilities-based network service providers to enable our network access service and in these cases, may not be able to compete aggressively on price. In addition, new cloud-based platform operators may enter the mobile connectivity services market and compete on price. In either case, we may lose business or be forced to lower our prices to compete, which could reduce our revenues.. Many of our competitors offer additional services that we do not, which enables them to bundle these services and compete favorably against us. Some of our competitors provide services that we do not, such as cellular data roaming, local exchange and long distance services, voicemail and digital subscriber line, or DSL, services. Potential customers that desire these services on a bundled basis may choose to subscribe to network access from a competitor that provides these additional services.. Our potential customers may have unrelated business relationships with our competitors and consider those relationships when deciding between our services and those of our competitors. Many of our competitors are large facilities-based carriers that purchase substantial amounts of services or provide other services or goods unrelated to network access services. As a result, if a potential customer is also a supplier to one of our large competitors, or purchases unrelated services or goods from our competitor, the potential customer may be motivated to purchase its network access services from our competitor to maintain or enhance its business relationship with that competitor. In addition, our current or potential carrier customers may already have or may consider buying services from mobility management solution providers which may impact our ability to sell our services to those customers as well as drive market prices down for the services that we offer.. Users may take advantage of free Wi-Fi networks for Internet and corporate access. Telecommunications providers may offer free Wi-Fi as part of a home broadband or other service contract, which may force down the prices which the market will bear for our services and could reduce our revenues.. If we fail to develop and effectively market our brand, our operating results may be harmed.. We believe that expanding awareness of the iPass brand is important to growing and achieving acceptance of our platform and services. We have increased our marketing efforts, including new promotional and marketing activities, to further implement our global marketing objectives. These promotional and marketing activities may not result in any increased revenue. Further, any potential revenue increase as a result of these promotional and marketing activities may not offset the expenses incurred in further promoting the iPass brand.. Because a meaningful portion of our business is international, we encounter additional risks, which may impact our revenues and profitability.. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from international customers. Revenues from customers domiciled outside of the United States were approximately 53% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017, of which approximately 45% were generated in the EMEA region and approximately 8% were generated throughout the rest of the world. The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the U.S. Dollar and we currently bill nearly all of our services in U.S. Dollars. However, we pay certain expenses in local currencies. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we have not entered into any hedging contracts to manage foreign currency exposure. Our international operations subject our business to specific risks that could negatively impact our business, including:. • Generally longer payment cycles for foreign customers;. • The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on both the attractiveness of our USD-based pricing and our operating results, particularly upon the re-measurement of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the transactional settlement of outstanding local currency liabilities;. • High taxes, and related complexities and changing compliance requirements in some foreign jurisdictions;. • Difficulty in complying with Internet and data privacy related regulations in foreign jurisdictions;. • Difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting these rights; and. 13. Table of Contents. • Ability to efficiently deploy capital and generate returns in foreign jurisdictions.. The June 23, 2016 referendum by British voters to exit the EU (\"Brexit\") adversely impacted global markets, including currencies, and resulted in a decline in the value of the British pound, as compared to the U.S. dollar and other currencies. In the longer term, any impact from Brexit on our business, financial results and operations, will depend, in part, on the future terms of the U.K.'s relationship with the EU, and could create uncertainty surrounding our business, including our relationships with our existing and future customers, suppliers and employees.. Litigation arising out of intellectual property infringement could be expensive and disrupt our business.. We cannot be certain that our services do not, or will not, infringe upon patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Any claim of infringement of proprietary rights of others, even if ultimately decided in our favor, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Successful claims against us may result in an injunction or substantial monetary liability, which in either case could significantly impact our results of operations or materially disrupt the conduct of our business. If we are enjoined from using a technology, we will need to obtain a license to use the technology, but licenses to third-party technology may not be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results and prevent fraud.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. There can be no assurance that material weaknesses or other control or significant deficiencies will not be identified in the future. If we fail to maintain appropriate controls, such circumstances could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements or adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports. We could be required to restate our financial results.  Each of the foregoing results could cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in our stock price or to stockholder litigation.. Our common stock is subject to delisting proceedings from the Nasdaq Global Select Market.. On September 15, 2017, we received a letter from the listing qualifications department of the Nasdaq Stock Market notifying us that for the prior 30 consecutive business days the bid price of our common stock had closed below $1.00 per share, the minimum closing bid price required by the continued listing requirements of Nasdaq listing rules.. On November 14, 2017, we received a letter from the listing qualifications department of Nasdaq notifying us that for the prior 30 consecutive business days the minimum market value of our common stock was below $50 million, the minimum amount required by the continued listing requirements of Nasdaq listing rule 5450(b)(2)(A).. We have until March 14, 2018, to regain compliance or request an additional 180 day extension. In order to be granted an extension, we are required to submit a formal plan to Nasdaq outlining our path to regain compliance. If we fail to regain compliance or submit an adequate plan, our common stock may be delisted from Nasdaq. The delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq may make it more difficult for us to raise capital on favorable terms in the future. Such a delisting would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock and impair stockholders' ability to sell or purchase our common stock.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction of future net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one-time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new capital investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits, including the deductibility of executive compensation. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. The impact of this. 14. Table of Contents. tax reform on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to this legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in or holding our common stock."
