[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors That May Affect Future Results. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, common stock price, financial condition or results of operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision.. Risks Relating to our Business. We face quality control and other production issues that could materially and adversely impact our sales and financial results and the acceptance of our products.. The manufacture of our infrared and visible laser consoles and related delivery devices is a highly complex and precise process. We may experience manufacturing difficulties, quality control issues or assembly constraints.. If our sales increase substantially, we may need to increase our production capacity and may not be able to do so in a timely, effective or cost-efficient manner. We may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products, which may require that we qualify other manufacturers for our products. Furthermore, we may experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations.. In the past several years, we have experienced supply chain, production and training issues as we have expanded our product lines and sales volumes, and may experience similar issues in the future as we continue to grow our business. These issues have caused, and may in the future cause, us to reduce or delay the shipment of our products and incur costs to service or replace products already shipped to customers. We have also incurred, and may in the future incur, additional costs to rectify or prevent similar issues in the future. Our efforts to address these supply chain, production and training issues may not be successful, and if we are unable to address these issues in a timely and cost-effective manner, product shipments to our customers could be delayed, our sales levels may suffer and manufacturing and operational costs may increase, any of which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Some of our laser systems are complex in design and may contain defects that are not detected until deployed by our customers, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues.. Laser systems are inherently complex in design and require regular maintenance. The manufacture of our lasers, laser products and systems involves a highly complex and precise process. As a result of the technical complexity of our products, changes in our or our suppliers' manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective materials by us or our suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. To the extent that we do not achieve such yields or product reliability, our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships would be adversely affected. We provide warranties on certain of our product sales, and allowances for estimated warranty costs are recorded during the period of sale. The determination of such allowances requires us to make estimates of failure rates and expected costs to repair or replace the products under warranty. We currently establish warranty reserves based on historical warranty costs. If actual return rates and/or repair and replacement costs differ significantly from our estimates, adjustments to recognize additional cost of revenues may be required in future periods.. Our customers may discover defects in our products after the products have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors, which may contain defects. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to identify and fix defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things:. •  loss of customers;. •  increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses;. •  damage to our brand reputation;. •  failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance;. •  diversion of development and engineering resources; and. •  legal actions by our customers.. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. We rely on our direct and independent sales forces and network of international distributors to sell our products and any failure to maintain our sales force and distributor relationships could harm our business.. Our ability to sell our products and generate revenues depends upon our direct and independent sales forces within the United States, relationships with independent distributors outside the United States, and the establishment of our direct sales capabilities in Germany. Currently our direct and independent sales forces within the United States consist of approximately 22 employees and 7 independent representatives, respectively. Our international independent distributors are managed by a team of five people. We generally grant our distributors exclusive territories for the sale of our products in specified countries. The amount and timing of resources dedicated by our distributors to the sales of our products is not within our control. Our international sales are largely dependent on the efforts of these third parties. If any distributor breaches the terms of its distribution agreement with us or fails to generate sales of our products, we may be forced to replace the distributor and our ability to sell our products into that exclusive sales territory would be adversely affected.. We do not have any long-term employment contracts with the members of our direct sales force. We may be unable to replace our direct sales force personnel with individuals of equivalent technical expertise and qualifications, which may harm our revenues and our ability to maintain market share. Similarly, our independent and distributor agreements are generally terminable at will by either party and independents and distributors may terminate their relationships with us, which would affect our sales and results of operations.  As we establish our direct sales capabilities in Germany, we may be unable to recruit and retain qualified personnel in this region. Any loss of the members of our existing direct or indirect sales organizations, or any failure to execute on our plans to further develop our sales function, could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Growth in our sales and marketing organization may create operational challenges without immediately offsetting benefits.. We have increase and continue to increase our internal sales and marketing functions.  This growth may place a significant strain on our management, operating and financial systems and our sales, marketing, training and administrative resources. As a result of our growth, our operating costs may escalate even faster than planned, and some of our internal systems may need to be enhanced or replaced. For example, if we are unable to provide adequate training for our expanding sales force, our ability to fully utilize new sales and marketing resources may be adversely impacted, we could suffer reputational harm and our ability to maintain our installed base of customers may be negatively impacted.  If we cannot effectively manage our expanding operations and our costs, we may not be able to grow effectively or we may grow at a slower pace, and our business could be adversely affected.. It can take six months or longer before our internal sales representatives are fully trained and productive in selling our solution to prospective clients. This ramp period presents a number of operational challenges as the cost of recruiting, hiring and carrying new sales representatives cannot be offset by the revenue such new sales representatives produce until after they complete their ramp periods.  If we cannot reliably develop our sales representatives to a productive level, or if we lose productive representatives in whom we have heavily invested, our future growth rates and revenue will suffer.. We depend on international sales for a significant portion of our operating results.. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a large portion of our revenues from international sales. For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017, our international sales were $18.6 million, or 44.7% of total revenues. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. All of our international revenues and costs for the year ended December 30, 2017 have been denominated in U.S. dollars except for a sale transacted through our German subsidiary. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies makes our U.S. dollar-denominated our products more expensive and thus less competitive in foreign markets and may negatively affect our reported revenue in any particular reporting period. Our international operations and sales are subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including:. •  fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. •  product and production issues;. •  performance of our international channel of distributors;. •  longer accounts receivable collection periods;. •  impact of recessions in global economies and availability of credit;. •  political and economic instability;. •  trade sanctions and embargoes;. 15. •  impact of international conflicts, terrorist and military activity, civil unrest;. •  foreign certification requirements, including continued ability to use the \"CE\" mark in Europe, and other local regulatory requirements;. •  differing local product preferences and product requirements;. •  cultural differences;. •  changes in foreign medical reimbursement and coverage policies and programs;. •  reduced or limited protections of intellectual property rights in jurisdictions outside the United States;. •  potentially adverse tax consequences;. •  protectionist, adverse and changing foreign governmental laws and regulations;. •  greater risk of our employees failing to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including anti-trust regulations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and any trade regulations designed to ensure fair trade practices; and. •  compliance costs and risks of non-compliance with multiple regulatory regimes governing the production, marketing, sale and use of our products.. Any one or more of these factors stated above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. As we expand our existing international operations, we may encounter new risks in addition to the above factors. For example, as we focus on building our international sales and distribution networks in new geographic regions, we must continue to develop relationships with qualified local distributors and trading companies. If we are not successful in developing these relationships, we may not be able to grow sales in these geographic regions. These or other similar risks could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and the price of our common stock.. If we fail to develop and successfully introduce new products and applications, our business prospects and operating results may suffer.. Our ability to generate incremental revenue growth will depend, in part, on the successful outcome of research and development activities, which may include clinical trials that lead to the development of new products and new applications using our products. Our research and development process is expensive, prolonged, and entails considerable uncertainty. Due to the complexities and uncertainties associated with ophthalmic research and development, products we are currently developing may not complete the development process or obtain the regulatory approvals required to market such products successfully.. Successful commercialization of new products and new applications will require that we effectively transfer production processes from research and development to manufacturing and effectively coordinate with our suppliers. In addition, we must successfully sell and achieve market acceptance of new products and applications and enhanced versions of existing products. The extent of, and rate at which, market acceptance and penetration are achieved by future products is a function of many variables, which include, among other things, price, safety, efficacy, reliability, marketing and sales efforts, the development of new applications for these products, the availability of third-party reimbursement of procedures using our new products, the existence of competing products and general economic conditions affecting purchasing patterns.. Our ability to market and sell new products is subject to government regulation, including approval or clearance by the FDA and foreign government agencies. Any failure in our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products or enhanced versions of existing products and achieve market acceptance of new products and new applications could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and could cause our net revenues to decline.. We are exposed to risks associated with worldwide economic slowdowns and related uncertainties.. We are subject to macro-economic fluctuations in the U.S. and worldwide economy. Concerns about consumer and investor confidence, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending, international conflicts, terrorist and military activity, civil unrest and pandemic illness could reduce customer orders or cause customer order cancellations. In addition, political and social turmoil related to international conflicts and terrorist acts may put further pressure on economic conditions in the United States and abroad.. Weak economic conditions and declines in consumer spending and consumption may harm our operating results. Purchases of our products are often discretionary. During uncertain economic times, customers or potential customers may. 16. delay, reduce or forego their purchases of our products and services, which may impact our business in a number of ways, including lower prices for our products and services and reducing or delaying sales. There could be a number of follow-on effects from economic uncertainty on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays, delays in customer payments of outstanding accounts receivable and/or customer insolvencies, counterparty failures negatively impacting our operations, and increasing expense or inability to obtain future financing.. If economic uncertainty persisted, or if the economy entered a prolonged period of decelerating growth, our results of operations may be harmed.. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year.. Our sales and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year in the future. Our operating results are affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors contributing to these fluctuations include the following:. •  changes in the prices at which we can sell our products, including the impact of changes in exchange rates;. •  general economic uncertainties and political concerns;. •  introduction of new products, product enhancements and new applications by our competitors, including new drugs, entry of new competitors into our markets, pricing pressures and other competitive factors;. •  the timing of the introduction and market acceptance of new products, product enhancements and new applications;. •  changes in demand for our existing line of ophthalmology products;. •  the cost and availability of components and subassemblies, including the willingness and ability of our sole or limited source suppliers to timely deliver components at the times and prices that we have planned;. •  our ability to maintain sales volumes at a level sufficient to cover fixed manufacturing and operating costs;. •  fluctuations in our product mix within ophthalmology products and foreign and domestic sales;. •  the effect of regulatory approvals and changes in domestic and foreign regulatory requirements;. •  our long and highly variable sales cycle;. •  changes in customers' or potential customers' budgets as a result of, among other things, reimbursement policies of government programs and private insurers for treatments that use our products;. •  variances in shipment volumes as a result of product, supply chain and training issues; and. •  increased product innovation costs.. In addition to these factors, our quarterly results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by seasonal factors. For example, our European sales during the third quarter are generally lower due to many businesses being closed for the summer vacation season.. Our expense levels are based, in part, on expected future sales. If sales levels in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, we may be unable to adjust operating expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall of sales, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, we have historically made a significant portion of each quarter's product shipments near the end of the quarter. If that pattern continues, any delays in shipment of products could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for such quarters. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter to quarter and year to year comparisons of our past operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any quarter or year as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results in future quarters and years may be below expectations, which would likely cause the price of our common stock to fall.. 17. We rely on continued market acceptance of our existing products and any decline in sales of our existing products would adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We currently market visible and infrared medical laser systems and delivery devices to the ophthalmology market. We believe that continued and increased sales, if any, of these medical laser systems is dependent upon a number of factors including the following:. •  acceptance of product performance, features, ease of use, scalability and durability, including with respect to our MicroPulse laser photocoagulation systems;. •  recommendations and opinions by ophthalmologists, other clinicians, and their associated opinion leaders;. •  marketing and clinical study outcomes;. •  price of our products and prices of competing products and technologies, particularly in light of the current macro-economic environment where healthcare systems and healthcare operators are becoming increasingly price sensitive;. •  availability of competing products, technologies and alternative treatments; and. •  level of reimbursement for treatments administered with our products.. In addition, we derive a meaningful portion of our sales in the form of recurring revenues from selling consumable instrumentation, including our MP3 and EndoProbe devices. Our ability to increase recurring revenues from the sale of consumable products will depend primarily upon the features of our current products and product innovation, the quality of, ease of use and prices of our products, including the relationship to prices of competing products. The level of our service revenues will depend on the quality of service we provide and the responsiveness and the willingness of our customers to request our services rather than purchase competing products or services. Any significant decline in market acceptance of our products or our revenues derived from the sales of laser consoles, delivery devices, consumables or services may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We face strong competition in our markets and expect the level of competition to grow in the foreseeable future.. Competition in the market for laser systems and delivery devices used for ophthalmic treatment procedures is intense and is expected to increase. This market is also characterized by technological innovation and change. We compete by providing features and services that are valued by our customers such as: enhanced product performance, and clinical outcomes, ease of use, durability, versatility, customer training services and rapid repair of equipment.. Our principal ophthalmic laser competitors are Alcon Inc. (Novartis AG), Bausch and Lomb (Valeant), Carl Zeiss Meditec AG, Ellex Medical Lasers, Ltd., Lumenis Ltd., Nidek Co. Ltd., Quantel Medical SA, and Topcon Corporation.  We also compete with alternative glaucoma surgical device companies such as Alcon, Allergan, and Glaukos. Pharmaceuticals represent alternative treatments to our laser procedures.  Some of our principal pharmaceutical competitors are Alcon, Allergan, OSI Pharmaceuticals (Astellas), Pfizer, Regeneron, Roche (Genentech), and Valeant Pharmaceuticals.  Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, engineering, product development, manufacturing, marketing and technical resources than we do. Some companies also have greater name recognition than us and long-standing customer relationships. In addition, other medical companies, academic and research institutions, or others, may develop new technologies or therapies, including medical devices, surgical procedures or pharmacological treatments and obtain regulatory approval for products utilizing such techniques that are more effective in treating the conditions targeted by us, or are less expensive than our current or future products. Our technologies and products could be rendered obsolete by such developments. Any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by uncertainty regarding healthcare reform measures and changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement policies.. Our products are typically purchased by doctors, clinics, hospitals and other users, which bill various third-party payers, such as governmental programs and private insurance plans, for the health care services provided to their patients. Changes in government legislation or regulation or in private third-party payers' policies toward reimbursement for procedures employing our products may prohibit adequate reimbursement. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system, reduce the costs of healthcare and change medical reimbursement policies. Doctors, clinics, hospitals and other users of our products may decline to purchase our products to the extent there is uncertainty regarding reimbursement of medical procedures using our products and any healthcare reform measures. Further proposed legislation, regulation and policy changes affecting third-party reimbursement are likely. Among other things, Congress has in the past proposed changes to and the repeal of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care and Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the \"Affordable Care Act\"), and the current U.S.. 18. presidential administration has announced certain policy changes that could impact the availability of benefits under the Affordable Care Act. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to or any repeal of the Affordable Care Act, with respect to certain of its provisions or in its entirety, or related administrative policies. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level.. We are unable to predict what legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future at the state or federal level, or what effect such legislation or regulation may have on us. Furthermore, existing legislation and regulation related to the health care industry and third-party coverage reimbursement, including the Affordable Care Act, has been subject to judicial challenge, and may be subject to similar challenges from time to time in the future. Denial of coverage and reimbursement of our products, or the revocation or changes to coverage and reimbursement policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Third-party payers are increasingly scrutinizing and continue to challenge the coverage of new products and the level of reimbursement for covered products. Doctors, clinics, hospitals and other users of our products may not obtain adequate reimbursement for use of our products from third-party payers. While we believe that the laser procedures using our products have generally been reimbursed, payers may deny coverage and reimbursement for our products if they determine that the device was not reasonable and necessary for the purpose used, was investigational or was not cost-effective.. If we fail to comply with healthcare laws, we could face substantial penalties and financial exposure, and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. While we do not bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors, because payment is in many cases available for our products from such payors, many healthcare laws place limitations and requirements on the manner in which we conduct our business (including our sales and promotional activities and interactions with healthcare professionals and facilities) and could result in liability and exposure for us. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include (i) the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, (ii) federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us if we provide coding and billing advice to customers, or under theories of \"implied certification\" where the government and qui tam relators may allege that device companies are liable where a product that was paid for by the government in whole or in part was promoted \"off-label,\" lacked necessary clearance or approval, or failed to comply with good manufacturing practices or other laws; (iii) transparency laws and related reporting and disclosures requirements such as the federal Sunshine Act, now known as Open Payments; and/or (iv) state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, including, without limitation anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, many of which differ from their federal counterparts in significant ways, thus complicating compliance efforts.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that their provisions are open to a variety of evolving interpretations and enforcement discretion. Open Payments, commonly known as the Sunshine Act, is a relatively new law, and compliance with this law has presented a number of challenges to companies such as ours, in terms of interpretation of the law and its implementation. Under the Sunshine Act, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (\"CMS\") has the potential to impose penalties of up to $1.15 million per year for violations, depending on the circumstances, although enforcement has been negligible to date. Payments reported under the Sunshine Act also have the potential to draw scrutiny on payments to and relationships with physicians, which may have implications under the Anti-Kickback Statute and other healthcare laws. The risk that we are our being found in violation of these laws may be increased by the fact that we do not have a formal healthcare compliance program in place. Further, while safe harbors may in some instances be available and utilized by companies to reduce risks associated with the Anti-Kickback Statute and certain other healthcare laws, we have not necessarily utilized such safe harbors nor fully followed all elements required to claim the benefit of such safe harbors in all possible instances. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. 19. We depend on collaborative relationships to develop, introduce and market new products, product enhancements and new applications.. We depend on both clinical and commercial collaborative relationships. We have entered into collaborative relationships with academic medical centers and physicians in connection with the research and innovation and clinical testing of our products. Commercially, we currently have a distribution and licensing agreement with Alcon for our GreenTip SoftTip Cannula. Sales of and royalties from the GreenTip SoftTip Cannula are dependent upon the sales performance of Alcon, which depends on their efforts and is beyond our control. The failure to obtain any additional future clinical or commercial collaborations and the resulting failure or success of such collaborations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products or applications and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we cannot increase our sales volumes, reduce our costs or introduce higher margin products to offset potential reductions in the average unit price of our products, our operating results may suffer.. The average unit price of our products may decrease in the future in response to changes in product mix, competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by our competitors or other factors. If we are unable to offset the anticipated decrease in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes or through new product introductions, our net revenues will decline. In addition, to maintain our gross margins we must continue to reduce the manufacturing cost of our products. If we cannot maintain our gross margins our business will be seriously harmed, particularly if the average selling price of our products decreases significantly without a corresponding increase in sales.. Our promotional practices are subject to extensive government scrutiny. We may be subject to governmental, regulatory and other legal proceedings relative to advertising, promotion, and marketing that could have a significant negative effect on our business.. We are subject to governmental oversight and associated civil and criminal enforcement relating to drug and medical device advertising, promotion, and marketing, and such enforcement is evolving and intensifying. In the United States, we are subject to potential enforcement from the FDA, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice, the CMS, other divisions of the Department of Health and Human Services and state and local governments. Other parties, including private plaintiffs, also are commonly bringing suit against pharmaceutical and medical device companies, alleging off-label marketing and other violations. We may be subject to liability based on the actions of individual employees and contractors carrying out activities on our behalf, including sales representatives who may interact with healthcare professionals.. If we fail to manage growth effectively, our business could be disrupted which could harm our operating results.. We have experienced and may in the future experience growth in our business, both organically and through the acquisition of businesses and products. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments to enable our future growth through, among other things, new product innovation and clinical trials for new applications and products. We must also be prepared to expand our work force and to train, motivate and manage additional employees as the need for additional personnel arises. Our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to effectively manage future growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on patents and proprietary rights to protect our intellectual property and business.. Our success and ability to compete is dependent, in part, upon our proprietary information. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. We file patent applications to protect technology, inventions and improvements that are significant to the development of our business. Our patent portfolio includes 25 active United States patents and 13 active foreign patents on the technologies related to our products and processes. In addition, we have 10 patent applications pending in the United States and 12 foreign patent applications pending. Our patent applications may not be approved. Any patents granted now or in the future may offer only limited protection against potential infringement and development by our competitors of competing products. Moreover, our competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products either in the United States or in international markets. Patents have a limited lifetime and once a patent expires competition may increase.. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how which we seek to protect, in part, through proprietary information agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. Our proprietary information agreements with our employees and consultants contain industry standard provisions requiring such individuals to assign to us, without additional consideration, any inventions conceived or reduced to practice by them while employed or retained by us, subject to customary exceptions. Proprietary information agreements with employees, consultants and others may be breached, and. 20. we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Also, our trade secrets may become known to or independently developed by competitors.. The laser and medical device industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the medical device industry have employed intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage.. Numerous patents are held by others, including academic institutions and our competitors. Patent applications filed in the United States after November 2000 generally will be published eighteen months after the filing date. However, since patent applications continue to be maintained in secrecy for at least some period of time, both within the United States and internationally, we cannot provide assurance that our technology does not infringe any patents or patent applications held by third parties. We have, from time to time, been notified of, or have otherwise been made aware of, claims that we may be infringing upon patents or other proprietary intellectual property owned by others. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such patents or proprietary intellectual property. Although patent holders commonly offer such licenses, licenses under such patents or intellectual property may not be offered or the terms of any offered licenses may not be reasonable.. Any claims, with or without merit, and regardless of whether we are successful on the merits, would be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, cause shipment delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology or to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding and failure to obtain necessary licenses or develop alternate technologies could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In January 2018, we filed a lawsuit against Quantel Medical, S.A., Quantel USA, Inc., and Quantel, S.A. (collectively, \"Quantel\") in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California.  The lawsuit alleges that Quantel products infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,771,417, that Quantel breached an earlier agreement between Quantel and the Company, and that Quantel has infringed upon the Company's MicroPulse® trademark, Registration No. 4550188 on the principal register. Quantel previously had a limited license to the asserted Company patent and trademark.  Our complaint filed in connection with this matter asserts that the license was terminated in early 2017 for material breach, but that Quantel continued to use our intellectual property without authorization.  If we are unsuccessful in prosecuting our claims against Quantel, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we lose key personnel or fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, our ability to manage our business could be impaired.. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our key management, technical, sales, and other critical personnel. Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to retain them. Key personnel have left our company in the past, and there likely will be additional departures of key personnel from time to time in the future. The loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, and the results of our operations. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry and the San Francisco Bay Area, as well as other geographic markets in which we recruit, is intense and characterized by increasing salaries, which may increase our operating expenses or hinder our ability to recruit qualified candidates. In addition, the integration of replacement personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful.. If we fail to accurately forecast demand for our product and component requirements for the manufacture of our product, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays and may experience lost sales or significant inventory carrying costs.. We use quarterly and annual forecasts based primarily on our anticipated product orders to plan our manufacturing efforts and determine our requirements for components and materials. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our product and the lead times required to obtain or manufacture the necessary components, materials, and fully assembled products. Lead times for components and fully assembled products vary significantly and depend on numerous factors, including the specific supplier, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for such products. If we overestimate the demand for our product, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate demand for our product and consequently, our components, materials and fully assembled products requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing, delay delivery of our product to our customers and result in the loss of customer sales. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our business and operating results.. 21. We depend on sole source or limited source suppliers.. We rely on third parties to manufacture substantially all of the components used in our products, including optics, laser diodes and crystals. We have some long term or volume purchase agreements with our suppliers and currently purchase components and fully-assembled products on a purchase order basis. Some of our suppliers and manufacturers are sole or limited sources. In addition, some of these suppliers are relatively small private companies whose operations may be disrupted or discontinued at any time. There are risks associated with the use of independent manufacturers, including the following:. •  unavailability of shortages or limitations on the ability to obtain supplies of components and products in the quantities that we require;. •  delays in delivery or failure of suppliers to deliver critical components and products on the dates we require;. •  failure of suppliers to manufacture and assemble components and products to our specifications, and potentially reduced quality; and. •  inability to obtain components and products at acceptable prices.. Our business and operating results may suffer from the lack of alternative sources of supply for critical sole and limited source components and fully-assembled products. The process of qualifying suppliers is complex, requires extensive testing with our products, and may be lengthy, particularly as new products are introduced. New suppliers would have to be educated in our production processes. In addition, the use of alternate components may require design alterations to our products and additional product testing under FDA and relevant foreign regulatory agency guidelines, which may delay sales and increase product costs. Any failures by our vendors to adequately supply limited and sole source components or products may impair our ability to offer our existing products, delay the submission of new products for regulatory approval and market introduction, materially harm our business and financial condition and cause our stock price to decline. Establishing our own capabilities to manufacture these components or products would be expensive and could significantly decrease our profit margins. Our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to obtain components or fully-assembled products in the quantity and quality desired and at the prices we have budgeted.. If our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed.. Our facilities could be subject to catastrophic loss such as fire, flood or earthquake. All of our research and development activities, manufacturing, our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations are located near major earthquake faults in Mountain View, California. Any such loss at any of our facilities could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expense to repair and replace our facilities.. If we fail to maintain our relationships with health care providers, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. At the same time, relationships with these individuals and entities are the subject of heightened scrutiny and may present the potential for healthcare compliance risks.. We market our products to numerous health care providers, including physicians, hospitals, ASC's, government affiliated groups and group purchasing organizations. We have developed and strive to maintain close relationships with members of each of these groups who assist in product research and development and advise us on how to satisfy the full range of surgeon and patient needs. We rely on these groups to recommend our products to their patients and to other members of their organizations. The failure of our existing products and any new products we may introduce to retain the support of these various groups could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our interactions, communications, and financial relationships with these individuals and entities present potential healthcare compliance risks.. We are subject to government regulations which may cause us to delay or withdraw the introduction of new products or new applications for our products.. The medical devices that we market and manufacture are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and by foreign and state governments. Under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (\"FDCA\") and the related regulations, the FDA regulates the design, development, clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution and promotion of medical devices. Before a new device can be introduced into the market, the product must be shown to meet regulatory requirements established by the FDCA and implemented by the FDA. Unless otherwise exempt, a device manufacturer must obtain marketing \"clearance\" through the 510(k) premarket notification process, or \"approval\" through the lengthier premarket approval application (\"PMA\") process. Not all devices are eligible for the 510(k) clearance process. Depending upon the type, complexity and novelty of the device and the nature of the disease or disorder to be treated, the FDA process can take several years, require extensive clinical testing and result in significant expenditures. Even if regulatory clearance or approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown safety issues may result in restrictions on the product, including withdrawal of the product. 22. from the market. Other countries also have extensive regulations regarding clinical trials and testing prior to new product introductions. Our failure to obtain government approvals or any delays in receipt of such approvals would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The FDA imposes a broad range of additional requirements on medical device companies. Our products must be produced in compliance with the Quality System Regulation (\"QSR\") and our manufacturing facilities are subject to establishment registration and device listing requirements from the FDA, and similar requirements from certain state authorities, and ongoing periodic inspections by the FDA, including unannounced inspections for compliance with applicable requirements. We are subject to monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting obligations for medical device adverse events and malfunctions; notification of our products' defects or failure to comply with the FDA's laser regulations; and reporting of recalls, corrections, or removals of our products. The FDA also imposes requirements for the labeling of our products, and places limitations on claims we are permitted to make about our products in promotional labeling. The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction over the advertising of all of our products, which are non-restricted devices, and exercises oversight in coordination with the FDA.. Noncompliance with the applicable requirements can result in, among other things, regulatory citations (including \"483 Observations\") and Warning Letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, withdrawal of marketing approvals, and criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any device we manufacture or distribute. Any of these actions by the FDA would materially and adversely affect our ability to continue operating our business and the results of our operations. Such enforcement action can also result in negative publicity.. In addition, we are also subject to varying product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. As a result of our sales in Europe, we are required to have all products \"CE\" marked, an international symbol affixed to all products demonstrating compliance with the European Medical Device Directive and all applicable standards. While currently all of our released products are CE marked, continued certification is based on the successful review of our quality system by our European Registrar during their annual audit. Any loss of certification would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There are a number of major regulatory changes occurring in the regulation of medical devices in the EU. A new revision of the quality system regulation (ISO 13485:2016) has been released that substantially increases the requirements for a medical device quality system. The Medical Device Regulation (MDR) will replace the current medical device directive (93/42/EEC), and it substantially changes the way that medical devices are brought to market in the EU and how they maintain compliance throughout the product's life cycle. Additionally, the new revision 4 of the clinical evaluation report guidance document (MEDDEV 2.7.1) severely restricts the use of substantial equivalence for new products, resulting in the need for formal clinical trial data for most new products. These changes will increase the cost for compliance and for product development, and they lengthen product introduction cycles. Failure to comply with these changes can have an adverse effect on our ability to release new products in a timely manner.. Any clinical trials that we may undertake for regulatory approval or marketing reasons will be an expensive, lengthy, costly, and uncertain process, and could result in delays in new product introductions or even an inability to release a product.. We may be required to undertake clinical trials to obtain regulatory approvals or may choose to undertake such trials for marketing or other reasons.  Clinical trials for products such as ours are complex and expensive and their outcomes are uncertain.  Any clinical trials that we may undertake would require the investment of significant financial and administrative resources.  Moreover, the results of clinical trials are uncertain, and inconclusive or negative results may not support, or may impair, the sale and adoption of our products. We may suffer significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after earlier clinical trials showed promising results. Any of our products could produce undesirable side effects that could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of a product candidate. We, the FDA, or another regulatory authority could suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if they or we believed the trial participants faced unacceptable health risks.. If we fail to comply with the FDA's quality system regulation and laser performance standards, our manufacturing operations could be halted, and our business would suffer.. We are currently required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA's QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. Because our products involve the use of lasers, our products also are covered by a performance standard for lasers set forth in FDA regulations. The laser performance standard imposes specific record-keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements. These requirements include affixing warning labels to laser products, as well as incorporating certain safety features in the design of laser products. The FDA enforces the QSR and laser performance standards through periodic unannounced inspections. We have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections. Our failure to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse. 23. QSR inspection or our failure to comply with applicable laser performance standards could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of our manufacturing operations, a recall of our products, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, which would cause our sales and business to suffer.. If we modify one of our FDA approved devices, we may need to submit a new 510(k), or potentially a PMA, and if clearance or approval is not obtained, it would prevent us from selling our modified products or cause us to redesign our products.. Any modifications to an FDA-cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a PMA. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenues and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices, which could harm our operating results and require us to redesign our products.. Our products may be misused, which could harm our reputation and our business.. We market and sell our products for use by highly skilled physicians with specialized training and experience in the treatment of eye-related disorders. We, and our distributors, generally offer but do not require purchasers or operators of our products to attend training sessions, nor do we supervise the procedures performed with our products. The physicians who operate our products are responsible for their use and the treatment regime for each individual patient. In addition, non-physicians, particularly in countries outside of the United States, or poorly trained or inexperienced physicians, may make use of our products. Our efforts to market our MicroPulse systems as a Fovea-friendly alternative to traditional continuous wavelength systems or alternative treatment methods may result in users failing to implement adequate safety precautions and thereby increase the risks associated with the misuse of our product. The lack of training and the purchase and use of our products by non-physicians or poorly trained or inexperienced physicians may result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation and expose us to costly product liability litigation, or otherwise cause our business to suffer.. Inability of customers to obtain credit or material increases in interest rates may harm our sales.. Some of our products are sold to health care providers in general practice. Many of these health care providers purchase our products with funds they secure through various financing arrangements with third-party financial institutions, including credit facilities and short-term loans. If availability of credit becomes more limited, or interest rates increase, these financing arrangements may be harder to obtain or become more expensive for our customers, which may decrease demand for our products. Any reduction in the sales of our products would cause our business to suffer.. Our products could be subject to recalls even after receiving FDA approval or clearance. A recall would harm our reputation and adversely affect our operating results.. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries in which we market and sell our products have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in the design or manufacture of our products, or in other cases we may determine that we will recall a product because we have determined that the product is violative, in order to avoid further enforcement action and protect the public health.. On February 23, 2018, we initiated a voluntary recall of a specific laser accessory called the TruFocus LIO Premiere\231 (\"LIO\"). The LIO is a headmounted indirect ophthalmoscopes that connects to our laser console and is used to view and perform retina laser treatment on a patient's eye. There are 104 TruFocus LIO Premiere units at customer sites worldwide. We have received reports of three adverse events occurring during procedures in which the TruFocus LIO Premiere was used.. A government mandated recall, or a voluntary recall by us, could occur as a result of actual or potential component failures, adverse event reports, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. Furthermore, we may from time to time initiate a recall of a component or set of components comprising a portion of our laser systems, which could increase customer returns, warranty claims and associated reserve levels. A recall could divert management's attention, cause us to incur significant expenses, harm our reputation with customers, negatively affect our future sales and financial results.. 24. If product liability claims are successfully asserted against us, we may incur substantial liabilities that may adversely affect our business or results of operations.. We may be subject to product liability claims from time to time. Our products are highly complex and some are used to treat extremely delicate eye tissue. We believe we maintain adequate levels of product liability insurance. However, product liability insurance is expensive and we might not be able to obtain product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to protect us, if at all. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Efforts to acquire additional companies or product lines may divert our managerial resources away from our business operations, and if we complete additional acquisitions, we may incur or assume additional liabilities or experience integration problems.. Since 1989, we have completed six acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to acquire businesses or product lines for various reasons, including adding new products, adding new customers, increasing penetration with existing customers, adding new manufacturing capabilities or expanding into new geographic markets. Our ability to successfully grow through acquisitions depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financings. These efforts could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. If we complete future acquisitions, we may also experience:. •  difficulties integrating any acquired products into our existing business;. •  difficulties in integrating an acquired company's technologies, services, employees, customers, partners, business operations and administrative and software management systems with ours;. •  delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired products;. •  diversion of our management's time and attention from other business concerns;. •  adverse customer reaction to the product acquisition; and. •  increases in expenses.. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities. In connection with these types of transactions, we may issue additional equity securities that would dilute the ownership interest of existing investors or the EPS, use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business, incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay, incur large charges or substantial liabilities, encounter difficulties integrating diverse business cultures and become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges. These challenges related to acquisitions or investments could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. Additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requires us to track and disclose the source of certain metals used in manufacturing which may stem from minerals (so called \"conflict minerals\") which originate in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining regions. These metals include tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. These metals are central to the technology industry and are present in some of our products as component parts. In most cases no acceptable alternative material exists which has the necessary properties. It is not possible to determine the source of the metals by analysis but instead a good faith description of the source of the intermediate components and raw materials must be obtained. The components which incorporate those metals may originate from many sources and we purchase fabricated products from manufacturers who may have a long and difficult-to-trace supply chain. As the spot price of these materials varies, producers of the metal intermediates can be expected to change the mix of sources used, and components and assemblies which we buy may have a mix of sources as their origin. We are required to carry out a diligent effort to determine and disclose the source of these materials. There can be no assurance we can obtain this information from intermediate producers who are not willing or not able to provide this information or further identify their sources of supply or to notify us if these sources change. These metals are subject to price fluctuations and shortages which can affect our ability to obtain the manufactured materials we rely on at favorable terms or from consistent sources. These changes could have an adverse impact on our ability to manufacture and market our devices and products.. 25. Changes in U.S. tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions.. Legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") was enacted in December 2017, and contains many significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, the consequences of which have not yet been determined. Changes in corporate tax rates, the realizability of the net deferred tax assets relating to our U.S. operations, the taxation of foreign earnings, and the deductibility of expenses contained in the Act or other tax reform legislation could have a material impact on the value of our deferred tax assets, could result in significant one-time charges in the current or future taxable years, and could increase our future U.S. tax expense. The foregoing items could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions.. If we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected.. Our products and operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the use, storage, handling, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous materials and a large and growing body of international standards which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use and disposal of our products. We must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate compliance with these with the development and regulatory documentation for our products. Failure to meet these standards could limit the ability to market our products in those regions which require compliance to such standards or subject us to fines and penalties. Examples of such standards include laws governing the hazardous material content of our devices and products, such as the European Union (\"EU\") Directive 2011/65/EU relating to Restrictions on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances \"RoHS Directive, and the EU Directive 2012/19/EU on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment or \"WEEE Directive\". Similar laws and regulations have been passed or are pending in several other jurisdictions and may be enacted in other regions, including in the United States, and we are, or may in the future be, subject to these laws and regulations.. Our failure to comply with past, present and future similar laws could result in reduced sales of our devices and products, inventory write-offs, reputational damage, penalties and other sanctions, any of which could harm our business and financial condition. We also expect that our devices and products will be affected by new environmental laws and regulations on an ongoing basis. New environmental laws and regulations will likely result in additional costs and may increase penalties associated with violations or require us to change the content of our devices and products or how they are manufactured, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Risks Relating to Our Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value.. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, quarterly variations in our operating results, announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant clinical achievements, changes in market valuations of other similar companies in our industry and general market conditions. During the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017, the trading price of our common stock fluctuated from a low of $7.62 per share to a high of $15.99 per share. During the fourth fiscal quarter ended December 30, 2017, the trading price of our common stock fluctuated from $7.62 per share to a high of $9.94 per share. There can be no assurance that our common stock trading price will not suffer declines. Our common stock may experience an imbalance between supply and demand resulting from low trading volumes and therefore broad market fluctuations could have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock regardless of our performance.. Future sales and issuances of securities could negatively affect our stock price and dilute the ownership interest of our existing investors.. Future sales or issuances of securities by us could decrease the value of our common stock, dilute stockholders' voting power and reduce future potential earnings per share. To raise capital, we may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity-linked securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell additional equity securities, the ownership interest of existing investors or the EPS may be materially diluted. Additionally, new investors could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. We may also issue debt securities, which may impose restrictive covenants on our operations or otherwise adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders.. Sales or issuances of a substantial amount of securities, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. As of December 30, 2017, we had 11,596,274 shares of common stock. 26. outstanding, all of which were, and continue to be, eligible for sale in the public market, subject in some cases to compliance with the requirements of Rule 144, including the volume limitations and manner of sale requirements. Future resales of our common stock by our existing stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. As of December 30, 2017, holders of an aggregate of 982,742 shares of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or our other stockholders. In addition, the shares of common stock subject to outstanding options and restricted stock units under our 2008 Equity Incentive Plan and the shares reserved for future issuance under the Incentive Plan may become eligible for sale in the public markets in the future, subject to certain legal and control limitations.. We may sell shares or other securities in any offering at a price per share that is less than the price per share paid by existing investors, and investors purchasing shares or other securities in the future could have rights superior to existing stockholders. The price per share at which we sell additional shares of our common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock, in future transactions may be higher or lower than the price per share paid by existing investors.. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value.. We expect to retain any earnings for use to further develop our business, and do not expect to declare cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The declaration and payment of any such dividends in the future depends upon our earnings, financial condition, capital needs and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors, and may be restricted by future agreements with lenders. In addition, our loan facility with Silicon Valley Bank restricts us from paying any dividends or making any other distribution or payment on account of our common stock. As a result, the benefit from an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares.. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or publish incorrect or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our market and our competitors. If no or few securities or industry analysts cover our Company, the trading price for our stock could be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes incorrect or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our Company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Ownership of our common stock is concentrated among a few investors, which may affect the ability of a third party to acquire control of us. Substantial sales by such investors could cause our stock price to decline.. Our directors, executive officers, current five percent or greater stockholders and affiliated entities together beneficially own a significant portion of our common stock outstanding as of December 30, 2017. Having such a concentration of ownership may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from seeking to acquire, a majority of our outstanding common stock or control of our board of directors through a proxy solicitation.. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing.. Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds to invest in future growth opportunities. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest in future growth opportunities, which could seriously harm our business and operating results.. As a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. We may not complete our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. We may experience difficulty in meeting these reporting requirements in a timely manner, particularly if material weaknesses or significant. 27. deficiencies were to persist. We are an accelerated filer and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 as defined in the Exchange Act. If we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources.. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls also could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Ineffective disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which could likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In the event that we are not able to demonstrate compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, that our internal controls are perceived as inadequate or that we are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, investors may lose confidence in our operating results and our stock price could decline.. Our charter documents, anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, and contractual provisions could delay or prevent an acquisition or sale of our company.. Our certificate of incorporation empowers the board of directors to establish and issue a class of preferred stock, and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of the preferred stock. These provisions give the board of directors the ability to deter, discourage or make more difficult a change in control of our company, even if such a change in control could be deemed in the interest of our stockholders or if such a change in control would provide our stockholders with a substantial premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain other provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including the following:. •  the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of our board of directors;. •  only our board of directors is authorized to fill vacant directorships, including newly created seats;. •  special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by our board of directors or by a committee of our board of directors, thus prohibiting a stockholder from calling a special meeting;. •  stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or propose other business; and. •  stockholders are not permitted to cumulate votes in the election of directors.. In addition, we are generally subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our common stock or prevent changes in our management."
