[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. The trading price of our Class A common stock may decline due to these risks.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We are highly dependent on the commercial success of LINZESS in the U.S. for the foreseeable future and we are also dependent on the commercial success of ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO; we cannot guarantee when, or if, we will attain profitability or positive cash flows.. We and our partner, Allergan plc (together with its affiliates), or Allergan, began selling LINZESS in the U.S. during December 2012. In June 2016, we licensed exclusive rights to commercialize products containing lesinurad in the U.S. and we began selling ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO in October 2016 and October 2017, respectively. While we believe that the revenues from our LINZESS collaboration will continue to constitute a significant portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future, revenue from sales of ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO is also important to our financial success.  The commercial success of these products depends on a number of factors, including:. 24. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe effectiveness of our products for their approved indications;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe size of the treatable patient populations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe effectiveness of the sales, managed markets and marketing efforts for LINZESS by us and Allergan and for ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO by us;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe adoption of our products by physicians, which depends on whether physicians view such products as safe and effective treatments for their approved patient populations and indications;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour success in educating and activating potential patients to enable them to more effectively communicate their symptoms and treatment history to their physicians;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to both secure and maintain adequate reimbursement for, and optimize patient access to, our products and our ability to demonstrate that our products are safer, more efficacious and/or more cost-effective than alternative therapies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe effectiveness of Allergan's distribution networks for LINZESS and the effectiveness of our distribution strategy and networks for ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe occurrence of any side effects, adverse reactions or misuse, or any unfavorable publicity in these areas, associated with our products; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe development or commercialization of competing products or therapies for the treatment of the approved indications for our products, or their associated symptoms.. Our revenues from the commercialization of LINZESS, ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO are subject to these factors, and therefore may be unpredictable from quarter-to-quarter. Ultimately, we may never generate sufficient revenues from such products to reach or maintain profitability for our company or to sustain our anticipated levels of operations.. Linaclotide and lesinurad may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could limit their commercial potential.. The most commonly reported adverse reaction since linaclotide became commercially available, as well as in the clinical trials for linaclotide in IBS-C and CIC, has been diarrhea. In the linaclotide Phase III IBS-C and CIC trials, severe diarrhea was reported in 2% or less of the linaclotide-treated patients and its incidence was similar between the IBS-C and CIC populations. Linaclotide has been prescribed to millions of patients since its launch in the U.S. and other territories beginning in December 2012, and, as a result, it has been used in wider populations and in less rigorously controlled environments than in the clinical studies supporting its approval.. The most commonly reported adverse reactions in the clinical trials for lesinurad (in combination with a xanthine oxidase inhibitor, or XOI) for the treatment of hyperuricemia associated with uncontrolled gout were headache, influenza, increased blood creatinine and gastroesophageal reflux disease. ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO were launched in October 2016 and October 2017, respectively.  As a result, such products are being used in wider populations and in less rigorously controlled environments than in the clinical studies supporting their approval.  Additionally, because such products are approved for use in combination with an XOI for the treatment of hyperuricemia associated with uncontrolled gout, and DUZALLO is a fixed-dose combination treatment of lesinurad and allopurinol (an XOI), our patients may experience side effects and adverse reactions associated with the use of XOIs.  Notwithstanding ZURAMPIC's U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, -approved label, if ZURAMPIC is taken without an XOI, patients may experience new or increased risk of adverse reactions, including the heightened risk of acute renal failure.. Further, as we and our partners (and, in the case of lesinurad, AstraZeneca's other licensees) conduct clinical trials, including in new or existing territories, indications, populations or formulations, as well as explore potential. 25. Table of Contents. combination products, the number of patients treated with our products within and outside of such products' currently approved indications and patient populations has grown and continues to do so.. As patient experience increases and expands, we and others may identify previously unknown side effects, known side effects may be found to be more frequent or severe than in the past, and we and others may detect unexpected safety signals for our products or any products perceived to be similar to our products.  The foregoing, or the perception of the foregoing, may have the following effects, among others:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of our products may be impaired;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory approvals for our products may be denied, restricted or withdrawn;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe or our partners may decide to, or be required to, change the products' label or send product warning letters or field alerts to physicians, pharmacists and hospitals;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treformulation of the products, additional nonclinical or clinical studies, changes in labeling or changes to or re-approvals of manufacturing facilities may be required;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe or our partners may be precluded from pursuing approval of linaclotide in new territories or from studying additional development opportunities to enhance our products' clinical profiles, including within new or existing indications, populations and formulations, as well as in potential combination products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour or our products' reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgovernment investigations or lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us or our partners.. Any of the above occurrences would harm or prevent sales of our products, increase expenses and impair our and our partners' ability to successfully commercialize linaclotide or our ability to successfully commercialize lesinurad.. In addition, LINZESS, ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO each contain a boxed warning about their use.  The FDA-approved label for LINZESS contains a boxed warning about its use in pediatric patients. LINZESS is contraindicated in pediatric patients up to 6 years of age based on nonclinical data from studies in neonatal mice approximately equivalent to human pediatric patients less than 2 years of age. There is also a warning advising physicians to avoid the use of LINZESS in pediatric patients 6 to less than 18 years of age. This warning is based on data in young juvenile mice and the lack of clinical safety and efficacy data in pediatric patients of any age group. We and Allergan have established a nonclinical and clinical post-marketing plan with the FDA to understand the safety and efficacy of LINZESS in pediatric patients, which is discussed below.. The FDA-approved label for DUZALLO contains a boxed warning about the risk of acute renal failure with DUZALLO, and the FDA-approved label for ZURAMPIC contains a boxed warning about the risk of acute renal failure with ZURAMPIC, which is more common when ZURAMPIC is used without an XOI.  ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO are both contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal diseases, kidney transplant recipients, patients on dialysis or patients with tumor lysis syndrome or Lesch-Nyhan syndrome.  In addition, DUZALLO is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensivity to allopurinol.  The FDA has required that a post-marketing clinical study be conducted to further evaluate the renal and cardiovascular safety of lesinurad, which is discussed below.. We rely entirely on contract manufacturers, our partners and other third parties to manufacture and distribute linaclotide and lesinurad. If they are unable to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, unable to source sufficient raw materials, experience manufacturing or distribution difficulties, or are otherwise unable to manufacture and distribute sufficient quantities to meet demand, our commercialization efforts may be materially harmed.. We have no internal manufacturing or distribution capabilities. Instead, we rely on a combination of contract manufacturers and our partners to manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and final drug product.  We rely on our partners, with respect to linaclotide, and a third-party logistics provider and various distributors, with respect to products containing lesinurad, to store and distribute that drug product to third party purchasers. With respect to. 26. Table of Contents. linaclotide, we and certain of our partners have commercial supply agreements with independent third parties to manufacture the linaclotide API used to support all of our partnered territories. Each of Allergan and Astellas is responsible for linaclotide drug product and finished goods manufacturing (including bottling and packaging) for its respective territories, and distributing the finished goods to wholesalers. Among our linaclotide drug product manufacturers, only Allergan has significant experience in manufacturing linaclotide on a commercial scale. We have an agreement with an independent third party to serve as an additional source of drug product manufacturing of linaclotide for our partnered territories and we have worked with our partners to achieve sufficient redundancy in this component of the linaclotide supply chain. Under our collaboration with AstraZeneca for linaclotide, we are accountable for drug product and finished goods manufacturing for China and Macau, and for drug product manufacturing for Hong Kong, with AstraZeneca accountable for finished goods manufacturing for Hong Kong.. With respect to lesinurad, we have a commercial supply agreement with AstraZeneca to manufacture finished drug product. We rely exclusively on AstraZeneca as our supplier of finished drug product for ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO. If, for any reason, AstraZeneca is unable or unwilling to perform under our commercial supply agreement or if AstraZeneca performs poorly, our ability to timely deliver ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO to our customers would be significantly impaired or we might not be able to supply such products to our customers at all.  The sales of ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO would be adversely affected and such failure to deliver finished drug product to our customers would negatively impact our reputation.  If such event occurs, we would need to identify alternate manufacturers and we would expend time and effort to validate and obtain necessary regulatory approvals for such alternative manufacturers and there is no assurance that we would be able to identify alternative manufacturers that would be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all.  We also rely on a third-party logistics provider and various distributors to store and distribute lesinurad.  This distribution network requires significant coordination with our sales and marketing and finance organizations, and failure to coordinate financial systems could negatively impact our ability to accurately report product revenue.  Our lesinurad distribution network and commercialization efforts may be significantly impacted if our logistics provider's warehouse is damaged or if there are disruptions in its, or one or more of our distributor's, business, or if we are unable to effectively manage the distribution process. Distribution practices will also need to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements. If our distributors do not comply with the applicable regulatory requirements, we could be exposed to potential enforcement actions.. Each of our API and drug product manufacturers must comply with current good manufacturing practices, or GMP, and other stringent regulatory requirements enforced by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. These requirements include, among other things, quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation, which occur in addition to our own quality assurance releases. Manufacturers of our products may be unable to comply with these GMP requirements and with other regulatory requirements. We have little control over our manufacturers' or partners' compliance with these regulations and standards.. Our manufacturers may experience problems with their respective manufacturing and distribution operations and processes, including for example, quality issues, such as product specification and stability failures, procedural deviations, improper equipment installation or operation, utility failures, contamination and natural disasters. In addition, the raw materials necessary to make API for our products are acquired from a limited number of sources. Any delay or disruption in the availability of these raw materials or a change in raw material suppliers could result in production disruptions, delays or higher costs with consequent adverse effects on us.. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in commercial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product and quality assurance testing, and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with federal, state and foreign regulations and the challenges associated with complex supply chain management. Even if our manufacturers or partners do not experience problems and commercial manufacturing is achieved, their maximum or available manufacturing capacities may be insufficient to meet commercial demand. Finding alternative manufacturers or adding additional manufacturers requires a significant amount of time and involves significant expense. New manufacturers would need to develop and implement the necessary production techniques and processes, which along with their facilities, would need to be inspected and approved by the regulatory authorities in each applicable territory.. If our API or drug product manufacturers fail to adhere to applicable GMP or other regulatory requirements, experience delays or disruptions in the availability of raw materials or experience manufacturing or distribution. 27. Table of Contents. problems, we will suffer significant consequences, including product seizures or recalls, loss of product approval, fines and sanctions, reputational damage, shipment delays, inventory shortages, inventory write-offs and other product-related charges and increased manufacturing costs. If we experience any of these results, or if our manufacturers' maximum or available capacities are insufficient to meet demand, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products.. Expanding and maintaining our commercial infrastructure for lesinurad is a significant undertaking that requires substantial financial and managerial resources, and we may encounter delays or may not be successful in our efforts.. While we are currently marketing and selling LINZESS in the U.S. with our partner Allergan, ZURAMPIC is our first solely marketed product in the U.S. and we have limited experience in acquiring and integrating additional products into our current commercial infrastructure.  Unlike LINZESS, we are solely responsible for the commercialization of ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO, each of which are in the early stages of commercialization, and we do not have significant experience with all components of substantial commercial launches without a partner.  Establishing, maintaining and/or expanding the necessary capabilities are competitive and time-consuming and the commercialization of ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO requires a significant expenditure of operating, financial and management resources.  Even with those investments, we may not be able to maximize our sales of ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO or we may incur more expenditures than anticipated in order to maximize our sales.  We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish, maintain and/or expand our sales, marketing, distribution and market access capabilities, and enter into and maintain any agreements necessary for commercialization with payers and third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all.  If we are unable to establish, maintain and/or expand such capabilities, either on our own or by entering into agreements with others, or are unable to do so in an efficient manner or on a timely basis, we will not be able to maximize our sales of ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We also have no prior experience as a company developing or commercializing products in the field of uncontrolled gout.  While we have significant experience, and have been successful, in marketing LINZESS to primary care physicians and other prescribers, our competitors in the field of uncontrolled gout have more experience marketing products in this indication and may more successfully market their products.  Our competitors may also develop, manufacture and market products to treat hyperuricemia associated with uncontrolled gout that are more effective or less expensive than ours, or that have a more favorable safety profile.. We will incur additional expenses to successfully integrate ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO and, if developed, other lesinurad products with our business operations and such integration has been, and will be, a complex and time-consuming process.  We refer to ZURAMPIC, DUZALLO and other potential lesinurad products as the Lesinurad Business.  There may be substantial difficulties, costs and delays relating to establishing and maintaining certain capabilities necessary to commercialize ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO.  Such integration may result in the distraction of management and key functional areas from day-to-day operations and the diversion of financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or commercialization of our other programs.. Even if the commercialization of ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO and the integration of the Lesinurad Business are successful, we may fail to further our business strategy as anticipated or to achieve anticipated benefits and success.  We have made assumptions relating to the impact of the Lesinurad Business on our financial results relating to numerous matters, including the amount of goodwill and intangible assets related to the Lesinurad Business, the cost of development and commercialization of such products and other potential lesinurad products, and the associated costs and impact and the other financial and strategic risks related to the acquisition of the Lesinurad Business.  We may incur higher than expected operating, transaction and integration costs, and we may encounter general economic and business conditions that adversely affect the Lesinurad Business.  If one or more of these assumptions are incorrect, it could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results, and the benefits from the acquisition of the Lesinurad Business may not be realized or be of the magnitude expected.. If any of our linaclotide partners undergoes a change in control or in management, this may adversely affect our collaborative relationship or the success of the commercialization of linaclotide in the U.S. or in the other countries where it is approved, or the ability to achieve regulatory approval, launch and commercialize linaclotide in other territories.. We work jointly and collaboratively with each of our partners on many aspects of the development, manufacturing and commercialization of linaclotide. In doing so, we have established relationships with several key. 28. Table of Contents. members of the management teams of our linaclotide partners in functional areas such as development, quality, regulatory, drug safety and pharmacovigilance, operations, marketing, sales, field operations and medical science. Further, the success of our collaborations is highly dependent on the resources, efforts and skills of our partners and their key employees. As we and our partners commercialize linaclotide in the U.S. and the other countries where it is approved, and develop, launch and commercialize linaclotide in other parts of the world, the drug's success becomes more dependent on us maintaining highly collaborative and well aligned partnerships. If any of our linaclotide partners undergo a change of control or in management in the future, we would need to reestablish many relationships and confirm continued alignment on our development and commercialization strategy for linaclotide. Further, in connection with any change of control or in management, there is inherent uncertainty and disruption in operations, which could result in distraction, inefficiencies, and misalignment of priorities. As a result, in the event of a change of control or in management at one of our linaclotide partners, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully execute on our development and commercialization strategy for linaclotide in an effective and efficient manner and without disruption or reduced performance. Finally, any change of control or in management may result in a reprioritization of linaclotide within a partner's portfolio, or such partner may fail to maintain the financial or other resources necessary to continue supporting its portion of the development, manufacturing or commercialization of linaclotide.. If any of our linaclotide partners undergoes a change of control and the acquirer either (i) is unable to perform such partner's obligations under its collaboration or license agreement with us or (ii) does not comply with the divestiture or certain other provisions of the applicable agreement, we have the right to terminate the collaboration or license agreement and reacquire that partner's rights with respect to linaclotide. If we elect to exercise these rights in such circumstances, we will need to either establish the capability to develop, manufacture and commercialize linaclotide in that partnered territory on our own or we will need to establish a relationship with a new partner. We have assembled a team of specialists in manufacturing, quality, sales, marketing, payer, pricing and field operations, and specialized medical scientists, who represent the functional areas necessary for a successful commercial launch of a high potential, gastrointestinal therapy and who support the commercialization of LINZESS in the U.S. If Allergan was subject to a change of control that allowed us to further commercialize LINZESS in the U.S. on our own, and we chose to do so, we would need to enhance each of these functional aspects to replace the capabilities that Allergan was previously providing to the collaboration. Any such transition might result in a period of reduced efficiency or performance by our operations and commercialization teams, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize LINZESS.. Although many members of our global operations, commercial and medical affairs teams have strategic oversight of, and a certain level of involvement in, their functional areas globally, we do not have corresponding operational capabilities in these areas outside of the U.S. If Allergan, Astellas or AstraZeneca was subject to a change of control that allowed us to continue linaclotide's development or commercialization anywhere outside of the U.S. on our own, and we chose to do so rather than establishing a relationship with a new partner, we would need to build operational capabilities in the relevant territory. In any of these situations, the timeline and likelihood of achieving regulatory approval and, ultimately, the commercialization of linaclotide could be negatively impacted.. We must work effectively and collaboratively with Allergan to market and sell LINZESS in the U.S. in order for it to achieve its maximum commercial potential.. We are working closely with Allergan to execute our joint commercialization plan for LINZESS. The commercialization plan includes an agreed upon marketing campaign that targets the physicians who see patients who could benefit from LINZESS treatment. Our marketing campaign also targets the adult men and women who suffer from IBS-C or CIC. Our commercialization plan also includes an integrated call plan for our sales forces to optimize the education of specific gastroenterologists and primary care physicians on whom our and Allergan's sales representatives call, and the frequency with which the representatives meet with them.. In order to optimize the commercial potential of LINZESS, we and Allergan must execute upon this commercialization plan effectively and efficiently. In addition, we and Allergan must continually assess and modify our commercialization plan in a coordinated and integrated fashion in order to adapt to the promotional response. Further, we and Allergan must continue to focus and refine our marketing campaign to ensure a clear and understandable physician-patient dialogue around IBS-C, CIC and the potential for LINZESS as an appropriate therapy. In addition, we and Allergan must provide our sales forces with the highest quality support, guidance and oversight in order for them to continue to effectively promote LINZESS to gastroenterologists and primary care physicians. If we and Allergan fail to perform these commercial functions in the highest quality manner and in accordance with our joint commercialization. 29. Table of Contents. plan and related agreements, LINZESS will not achieve its maximum commercial potential and we may suffer financial harm. Our efforts to further target and engage adult patients with IBS-C or CIC may not effectively increase appropriate patient awareness or patient/physician dialogue, and may not increase the revenues that we generate from LINZESS.. We are subject to uncertainty relating to pricing and reimbursement policies in the U.S. which, if not favorable for our products, could hinder or prevent our products' commercial success.. Our and Allergan's ability to commercialize LINZESS and our ability to commercialize ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO in the U.S. successfully depend in part on the coverage and reimbursement levels set by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payers. In determining whether to approve reimbursement for our products and at what level, we expect that third-party payers will consider factors that include the efficacy, cost effectiveness and safety of our products, as well as the availability of other treatments including generic prescription drugs and over-the-counter alternatives. Further, in order to obtain and maintain acceptable reimbursement levels and access for patients at copay levels that are reasonable and customary, we may face increasing pressure to offer discounts or rebates from list prices or discounts to a greater number of third-party payers or other unfavorable pricing modifications. Obtaining and maintaining favorable reimbursement can be a time consuming and expensive process, and there is no guarantee that we or Allergan (with respect to LINZESS) will be able to negotiate or continue to negotiate pricing terms with third-party payers at levels that are profitable to us, or at all. Certain third-party payers also require prior authorization for, or even refuse to provide, reimbursement for LINZESS, ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO, and others may do so in the future.  Our business would be materially adversely affected if we and Allergan are not able to receive approval for reimbursement of LINZESS and we are not able to receive approval for reimbursement of ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO, in each case, from third-party payers on a broad, timely or satisfactory basis; if reimbursement is subject to overly broad or restrictive prior authorization requirements; or if reimbursement is not maintained at satisfactory levels or becomes subject to prior authorization. In addition, our business could be adversely affected if private health insurers, including managed care organizations, the Medicare or Medicaid programs or other reimbursing bodies or payers limit or reduce the indications for or conditions under which our products may be reimbursed.. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our current and future products due to the healthcare reforms discussed below, as well as the trend toward programs aimed at reducing healthcare costs, the increasing influence of managed care, the scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing, the ongoing debates on reducing government spending and additional legislative proposals. These healthcare reform efforts or any future legislation or regulatory actions aimed at controlling and reducing healthcare costs, including through measures designed to limit reimbursement, restrict access or impose unfavorable pricing modifications on pharmaceutical products, could impact our and our partners' ability to obtain or maintain reimbursement for our products at satisfactory levels, or at all, which could materially harm our business and financial results.. We and our linaclotide partners are subject to uncertainty relating to pricing and reimbursement policies outside the U.S., as well as risks relating to the improper importation of linaclotide and sale of counterfeit versions of linaclotide. If such policies are not favorable, or if linaclotide is improperly imported or is counterfeited, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. In some foreign countries, particularly Canada, the countries of Europe and Japan, the pricing and payment of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory approval and product launch. Reimbursement sources are different in each country, and each country may include a combination of distinct potential payers, including private insurance and governmental payers.  Some countries may restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and control the prices of medicinal products for human use.  To obtain favorable reimbursement for the indications sought or pricing approval in some countries, we and our partners may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost and clinical effectiveness of our products, including linaclotide, to other available therapies. In addition, in countries in which linaclotide is the only approved therapy for a particular indication, such as CONSTELLA as the only prescription product approved for the symptomatic treatment of moderate to severe IBS-C in adults in Europe and LINZESS as the only prescription treatment approved for the treatment of adults with IBS-C in Japan, there may be disagreement as to what the most comparable product is, or if there even is one. Further, several countries have implemented government measures to either freeze or reduce pricing of pharmaceutical products. Many third-party payers and governmental authorities also consider the price for which the same product is being sold in other countries to determine their own pricing and reimbursement strategy, so if linaclotide is priced low or gets limited reimbursement in a particular country,. 30. Table of Contents. this could result in similarly low pricing and reimbursement in other countries. If reimbursement for linaclotide is unavailable in any country in which reimbursement is sought, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at or reduced to unsatisfactory levels, our and our partners' ability to successfully commercialize linaclotide in such country would be impacted negatively. Furthermore, if these measures prevent us or any of our partners from selling linaclotide on a profitable basis in a particular country, they could prevent the commercial launch or continued sale of linaclotide in that country.. CONSTELLA was first launched in certain European countries for the symptomatic treatment of moderate to severe IBS-C in adults in the second quarter of 2013 and our partner Allergan is currently commercializing CONSTELLA in a number of European countries, including the United Kingdom, Italy and Spain.  LINZESS was first launched in Japan for the treatment of IBS-C in adults in the first quarter of 2017 and our partner Astellas is currently commercializing LINZESS in Japan. The pricing and reimbursement strategy is a key component of our partners' commercialization plans for CONSTELLA in Europe and LINZESS in Japan. Our revenues may suffer if our partners are unable to successfully and timely conclude reimbursement, price approval or funding processes and market CONSTELLA in key member states of the E.U. or LINZESS in Japan, or if coverage and reimbursement for either CONSTELLA or LINZESS is limited or reduced. If our partners are not able to obtain coverage, pricing or reimbursement on acceptable terms or at all, or if such terms change in any countries in its territory, our partners may not be able to, or may decide not to, sell either CONSTELLA or LINZESS in such countries.. We and our partners also face the risk that linaclotide is imported or reimported into markets with relatively higher prices from markets with relatively lower prices, which would result in a decrease of sales and any payments we receive from the affected market.  Additionally, third parties may illegally produce, distribute and/or sell counterfeit or otherwise unfit or adulterated versions of linaclotide.  In either case, we and our partners may not be able to detect or, if detected, prevent or prohibit the sale of such products, which could result in dangerous health consequences for patients, loss of confidence in us, our partners and our products, and adverse regulatory or legal consequences.  Any of the foregoing or other consequences could adversely impact our reputation, financial results and business.. Because we work with partners to develop, manufacture and commercialize our products, we are dependent upon third parties, and our relationships with those third parties, in our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for, and to commercialize, our products, as well as to comply with regulatory and other obligations with respect to such products.. Allergan played a significant role in the conduct of the clinical trials for linaclotide and in the subsequent collection and analysis of data, and Allergan holds the new drug application, or NDA, for LINZESS. In addition, we are commercializing LINZESS in the U.S. with Allergan. Allergan is also responsible for the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of linaclotide in countries worldwide other than Japan, China, Hong Kong and Macau.  Allergan is commercializing LINZESS in Mexico and CONSTELLA in Canada, as well as commercializing CONSTELLA in certain countries in Europe. Astellas, our partner in Japan, is responsible for completing the clinical programs and obtaining regulatory approval of linaclotide in its territory. Astellas is commercializing LINZESS in Japan. Further, we are jointly overseeing the development, and will jointly oversee the commercialization, of linaclotide in China, Hong Kong and Macau through our collaboration with AstraZeneca, with AstraZeneca having primary responsibility for the local operational execution. Each of Astellas, AstraZeneca and Allergan is responsible for commercializing linaclotide in its respective territory, if approved. Each of our partners is responsible for reporting adverse event information from its territory to us. Finally, each of our partners, other than AstraZeneca, is responsible for drug product manufacturing of linaclotide and making it into finished goods (including bottling and packaging) for its respective territory, and AstraZeneca is responsible for finished goods manufacturing for Hong Kong only. The integration of our efforts with our partners' efforts is subject to the uncertainty of the markets for pharmaceutical products in each partner's respective territories, and accordingly, these relationships must evolve to meet any new challenges that arise in those regions.. These integrated functions may not be carried out effectively and efficiently if we fail to communicate and coordinate with our linaclotide partners, and vice versa. Our linaclotide partnering strategy imposes obligations, risks and operational requirements on us as the central node in our global network of partners. If we do not effectively communicate with each partner and ensure that the entire network is making integrated and cohesive decisions focused on the global brand for linaclotide, linaclotide will not achieve its maximum commercial potential.  Further, we have limited ability to control the amount or timing of resources that our partners devote to linaclotide. If any of our partners fails to devote sufficient time and resources to linaclotide, or if its performance is substandard, it will delay the potential submission or approval of regulatory applications for linaclotide, as well as the manufacturing and commercialization of. 31. Table of Contents. linaclotide in the particular territory. A material breach by any of our partners of our collaboration or license agreement with such partner, or a significant disagreement between us and a partner, could also delay the regulatory approval and commercialization of linaclotide, potentially lead to costly litigation, and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Moreover, although we have non-compete restrictions in place with each of our linaclotide partners, they may have competitive products or relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If any of our partners competes with us or assists our competitors, it could harm our competitive position.. With respect to lesinurad, as part of our acquisition of the Lesinurad Business, we rely on AstraZeneca to provide us with information about ZURAMPIC, DUZALLO and other potential lesinurad products that may be critical to the development and the commercial success of such products in the U.S.  For example, AstraZeneca is responsible for notifying us of certain material intellectual property related to lesinurad that is developed by it or its other licensees of lesinurad.  If AstraZeneca does not notify us of such intellectual property or AstraZeneca's licensees fail to report such intellectual property to AstraZeneca, or, in each case, fail to provide such information on a timely basis, we may not be able to commercialize ZURAMPIC, DUZALLO and other potential lesinurad products as effectively or efficiently.. In addition, adverse event reporting requires significant coordination with our partners and third parties.  We are the holder of the global safety database for linaclotide responsible for coordinating the safety surveillance and adverse event reporting efforts worldwide with respect to linaclotide, and an AstraZeneca partner is the holder of the global safety database for lesinurad responsible for coordinating the safety surveillance and adverse event reporting efforts worldwide with respect to lesinurad. If we or AstraZeneca's partner fails to perform such activities and maintain each safety database or if our partners (or their licensees) do not report adverse events related to our products, or fail to do so in a timely manner, we may not receive the information that we are required to report to the FDA regarding such products.  Furthermore, we or our partners (or their licensees) may fail to adequately monitor, identify or investigate adverse events, or to report adverse events to the FDA or foreign regulatory authority accurately and within the prescribed timeframe. If we or our partners (or their licensees) are unsuccessful in any of the foregoing due to poor process, execution, systems, oversight, communication, adjudication or otherwise, then we may suffer any number of consequences, including the imposition of additional restrictions on the use of our products, removal of our products from the market, criminal prosecution, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, seizure of our products, or delay in approval of future products.. Even though LINZESS, ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO are approved by the FDA, such products face post-approval development and regulatory requirements, which present additional challenges.. In August 2012, the FDA approved LINZESS as a once-daily treatment for adult men and women suffering from IBS-C or CIC.  In December 2015, the FDA approved ZURAMPIC for use in combination with an XOI for the treatment of hyperuricemia associated with uncontrolled gout, and in August 2017, the FDA approved DUZALLO for the treatment of hyperuricemia associated with gout in patients who have not achieved target serum acid levels with a medically appropriate daily dose of allopurinol alone. Each of such products is subject to ongoing FDA requirements, including those governing the testing, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, sale, distribution, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-market information.. LINZESS is contraindicated in pediatric patients up to 6 years of age based on nonclinical data from studies in neonatal mice approximately equivalent to human pediatric patients less than 2 years of age. There is also a boxed warning advising physicians to avoid the use of LINZESS in pediatric patients 6 to less than 18 years of age. This warning is based on data in young juvenile mice and the lack of clinical safety and efficacy data in pediatric patients of any age group. We and Allergan have established a nonclinical and clinical post-marketing plan with the FDA to understand the safety and efficacy of LINZESS in pediatric patients, and have initiated two Phase II clinical pediatric studies in IBS-C patients age seven to 17 and functional constipation patients age six to 17. Our ability to conduct clinical studies in younger pediatric patients will depend, in part, on the safety and efficacy data from our clinical studies in older pediatric patients. Our ability to ever expand the indication for LINZESS to pediatrics will depend on, among other things, our successful completion of pediatric clinical studies. We and Allergan have also committed to certain nonclinical and clinical studies aimed at understanding: (a) whether orally administered linaclotide can be detected in breast milk, (b) the potential for antibodies to be developed to linaclotide, and if so, (c) whether antibodies specific for linaclotide could have any therapeutic or safety implications. We expect to complete these studies over the next two to four years.. 32. Table of Contents. ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO are contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal diseases, kidney transplant recipients, patients on dialysis or patients with tumor lysis syndrome or Lesch-Nyhan syndrome.  In addition, DUZALLO is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensivity to allopurinol. DUZALLO is approved for the treatment of hyperuricemia associated with gout in patients who have not achieved target serum acid levels with a medically appropriate daily dose of allopurinol alone, and there is a boxed warning that acute renal failure has occurred with lesinurad, one of the components of DUZALLO.  ZURAMPIC is approved for use in combination with an XOI for the treatment of hyperuricemia associated with uncontrolled gout, and there is a boxed warning about the risk of acute renal failure with ZURAMPIC, which is more common when ZURAMPIC is used without an XOI. The FDA has required a post-marketing clinical study to further evaluate the renal and cardiovascular safety of lesinurad, and has required that enrollment include patients with moderate renal impairment. We rely exclusively on AstraZeneca as our supplier of drug product for such study and other development activities pursuant to our clinical supply agreement.  If, for any reason, AstraZeneca is unable or unwilling to perform under our clinical supply agreement or if AstraZeneca performs poorly, our ability to, among other things, complete the post-marketing clinical study for lesinurad could be delayed or we may not be able to complete it at all.  Additionally, as the holder of the approved NDA for each of ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO, we are obligated to monitor and report adverse events and any failure of such products to meet the specifications in the applicable NDA, to submit new or supplemental applications and to obtain FDA approval for certain changes to such products, including changes to product labeling and manufacturing processes.. These post-approval requirements impose burdens and costs on us.  Failure to effectively, appropriately and timely conduct and complete the required studies relating to our products, monitor and report adverse events and meet our other post-approval commitments would lead to negative regulatory action at the FDA, which could include withdrawal of regulatory approval of our products for their currently approved indications and patient populations.. Manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with GMP and other applicable regulations. If we or a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with a facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. If we, our partners or the manufacturing facilities for our products fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may take the following actions, among others:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tissue warning letters or untitled letters;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpose civil or criminal penalties;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuspend or withdraw regulatory approval;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuspend any ongoing clinical trials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trefuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications submitted by us or our partners;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tseize or detain products or require us to initiate a product recall.. If we fail to comply with our obligations under our license with AstraZeneca, we could lose rights to the Lesinurad Business.. We are a party to a license agreement with AstraZeneca for exclusive rights to ZURAMPIC, DUZALLO and any other products containing lesinurad in the U.S.  Our license agreement with AstraZeneca imposes various milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with our obligations, AstraZeneca may have the right to terminate the license agreement, in which event we would not be able to continue commercializing ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO or developing any other lesinurad product that is covered by the license. Termination of the license agreement or reduction or elimination of our licensed rights may result in our having to negotiate new or. 33. Table of Contents. reinstated licenses with less favorable terms, and, if we lose rights to the Lesinurad Business, ceasing development and commercial activities related to lesinurad, adversely affecting our business.. Even though linaclotide is approved for marketing in the U.S. and in a number of other countries, we or our partners may never receive approval to commercialize linaclotide in additional parts of the world.. In order to market any products outside of the countries where linaclotide is approved, we or our partners must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other jurisdictions regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve product testing and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the U.S. and the other countries where linaclotide is approved. Potential risks include that the regulatory authorities:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmay not deem linaclotide safe and effective;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmay not find the data from nonclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to support approval;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmay not approve of manufacturing processes and facilities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmay not approve linaclotide for any or all indications or patient populations for which approval is sought;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmay require significant warnings or restrictions on use to the product label for linaclotide; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmay change their approval policies or adopt new regulations.. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our receipt of regulatory approval in the applicable jurisdiction could be delayed or we may never receive approval at all. Further, regulatory approval in one jurisdiction does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory processes in others. If linaclotide is not approved for all indications or patient populations or with the label requested, this would limit the uses of linaclotide and have an adverse effect on its commercial potential or require costly post-marketing studies.. We face potential product liability exposure, and, if claims brought against us are successful, we could incur substantial liabilities.. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of marketed products expose us to product liability claims. If we do not successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdecreased demand for approved products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpairment of our business reputation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twithdrawal of clinical trial participants;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinitiation of investigations by regulators;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlitigation costs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdistraction of management's attention from our primary business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsubstantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloss of revenues; and. 34. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inability to commercialize our product candidates.. We currently have product liability insurance coverage for the commercial sale of linaclotide and lesinurad and for the clinical trials of our product candidates which is subject to industry-standard terms, conditions and exclusions. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for expenses or losses associated with claims. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business.. We face competition and new products may emerge that provide different or better alternatives for treatment of the conditions that our products are approved to treat.. The pharmaceutical industry and the markets in which we operate are intensely competitive. We compete in the marketing and sale of our products, the development of new products and the acquisition of rights to new products with commercial potential.  Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than us. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical industry may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. Competition may increase further as a result of advances made in the commercial applicability of technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these fields.  Additionally, new developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical and medical technology industries at a rapid pace. These developments may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive.. Our products compete with certain prescription therapies and over-the-counter products for the treatment of the indications for which they are approved, or their associated symptoms, and in many cases with products that have attained significant levels of market acceptance. The availability of prescription competitors and over-the-counter products for such conditions could limit the demand, and the price we are able to charge, for our products unless we are able to achieve market acceptance among the medical community and patients and differentiate our products on the basis of their cost and/or actual or perceived benefits. For example, Takeda Pharmaceuticals Limited's AMITIZA (lubiprostone) is approved by the FDA for sale in the U.S. for the treatment of IBS-C, CIC and opioid-induced constipation and Synergy Pharmaceuticals, Inc.'s, or Synergy, TRULANCE (plecanatide) is approved by the FDA for sale in the U.S. for the treatment of adults with IBS-C and CIC.  Additionally, we believe other companies are developing products which could compete with our products, should they be approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Currently, there are other compounds in late stage development and other potential competitors are in earlier stages of development for the treatment of the indications for which our products are approved. If our current or potential competitors are successful in completing drug development for their drug candidates and obtain approval from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, they could limit the demand for our products.. We will incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting any \"off-label\" uses of our products.. Physicians are permitted to prescribe drug products and medical devices for uses that are not described in the product's labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies. Such \"off-label\" uses are common across medical specialties. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician's choice of treatments, the FDA and other regulatory agencies do restrict communications on the subject of off-label use. Companies are not permitted to promote drugs or medical devices for off-label uses. Accordingly, we do not permit promotion of any approved product that we develop, license, commercialize, promote, co-promote or otherwise partner for any indication, population or use not described in such product's label. The FDA and other regulatory and enforcement authorities actively enforce laws and regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing approval has not been obtained. A company that is found to have promoted off-label uses will be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions.. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA and other regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional scientific exchange concerning their products. We intend to engage in medical education activities and communicate with healthcare providers in compliance with all applicable laws, regulatory guidance and industry best practices. Although we believe we have put in place a. 35. Table of Contents. robust compliance program, which is designed to ensure that all such activities are performed in a legal and compliant manner, we cannot be certain that our program will address all areas of potential exposure and the risks in this area cannot be entirely eliminated.. If we fail to comply with healthcare and other regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The products that we promote are marketed in the U.S. and/or covered by federal healthcare programs, and, as a result, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to product promotion and fraud and abuse are applicable to, and may affect, our business. These laws and regulations include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfederal healthcare program anti-kickback laws, which prohibit, among other things, persons from offering, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfederal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, information or claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to us for reasons including providing coding and billing advice to customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which among other things, strictly regulates drug product and medical device marketing, prohibits manufacturers from marketing such products prior to approval or for off-label use and regulates the distribution of samples;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfederal laws that require pharmaceutical manufacturers to report certain calculated product prices to the government or provide certain discounts or rebates to government authorities or private entities, often as a condition of reimbursement under government healthcare programs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe so-called \"federal sunshine\" law, which requires pharmaceutical and medical device companies to monitor and report certain financial interactions with physicians and other healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations to the federal government for re-disclosure to the public; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstate law equivalents of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, state transparency laws, state laws limiting interactions between pharmaceutical manufacturers and members of the healthcare industry, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by federal laws, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Our global activities are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act which prohibits corporations and individuals from paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity. We are also subject to similar anti-bribery laws in the other countries in which we do business.. In addition, we may be subject to privacy and security laws in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, obtain or store personally identifiable information. For example, the processing of personal data in the European Economic Area, or the EEA, is subject to the 1995 Data Protection Directive, or the Directive, imposing strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze and transfer personal data. In May 2018, a new privacy regime, the General Data Protection Regulation, or the GDPR, will take effect, increasing our obligations with respect to. 36. Table of Contents. clinical trials conducted in the EEA and increasing the scrutiny applied by clinical trial sites located in the EEA to transfers of personal data from such sites to countries that are considered by the European Commission to lack an adequate level of data protection, such as the United States.  The compliance obligations imposed by the GDPR may increase our cost of doing business.  In addition, the GDPR imposes substantial fines for breaches of data protection requirements, and it confers a private right of action on data subjects for breaches of data protection requirements.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other laws, rules or regulations that apply to us, we will be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, rules or regulations, we cannot be certain that our program will address all areas of potential exposure and the risks in this area cannot be entirely eliminated, particularly because the requirements and government interpretations of the requirements in this space are constantly evolving. Any action against us for violation of these laws, rules or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business, as well as damage our business or reputation. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security, fraud and reporting laws may prove costly.. Healthcare reform and other governmental and private payer initiatives may have an adverse effect upon, and could prevent, our products' or product candidates' commercial success.. The U.S. government and individual states have been aggressively pursuing healthcare reform designed to impact delivery of, and/or payment for, healthcare, which include initiatives intended to reduce the cost of healthcare.  For example, in March 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as modified by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or the ACA, which, among other things, expanded healthcare coverage through Medicaid expansion and the implementation of the individual health insurance mandate; included changes to the coverage and reimbursement of drug products under government healthcare programs; imposed an annual fee on manufacturers of branded drugs; and expanded government enforcement authority. We face uncertainties because there have been, and may be additional, federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the ACA.  Such efforts may lead to fewer Americans having more comprehensive health insurance compliant with the ACA, even in the absence of a legislative repeal. Adoption of new healthcare reform legislation at the federal or state level could affect demand for, or pricing of, our products or product candidates if approved for sale.  However, we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation or action, or its impact on us, and healthcare reform could increase compliance costs and may adversely affect our future business and financial results.. In addition, other legislative changes have been adopted that could have an adverse effect upon, and could prevent, our products' or product candidates' commercial success.  Tax reform legislation enacted in December 2017 includes provisions intended to affect healthcare insurance coverage and payment, such as the elimination of the individual mandate to have health insurance beginning in 2019.  More broadly, the Budget Control Act of 2011, as amended, or the Budget Control Act, includes provisions intended to reduce the federal deficit, including reductions in Medicare payments to providers through 2025. Any significant spending reductions affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs, or any significant taxes or fees imposed as part of any broader deficit reduction effort or legislative replacement to the Budget Control Act, or otherwise, could have an adverse impact on our anticipated product revenues.. In addition to governmental efforts in the U.S., foreign jurisdictions as well as private health insurers and managed care plans are likely to continue challenging manufacturers' ability to obtain reimbursement, as well as the level of reimbursement, for pharmaceuticals and other healthcare-related products and services. These cost-control initiatives could significantly decrease the available coverage and the price we might establish for our products, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results.. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 also provides the FDA enhanced post-marketing authority, including the authority to require post-marketing studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with risk evaluations and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. We and Allergan have established a nonclinical and clinical post-marketing plan with the FDA to understand the safety and efficacy of LINZESS in pediatrics and we have established a clinical post-marketing plan with the FDA to further evaluate the renal and cardiovascular safety of lesinurad, each of which is discussed above. The FDA's exercise of this. 37. Table of Contents. authority has resulted (and is expected to continue to result) in increased development-related costs following the commercial launch of our products, and could result in potential restrictions on the sale and/or distribution of our products, even in such products' approved indications and patient populations.. If we are unable to successfully partner with other companies to develop and commercialize our products and/or product candidates, our ability to grow would be impaired and our business would be adversely affected.. As part of our business strategy, we may partner with pharmaceutical, biotechnology or other companies to develop and commercialize our products or product candidates.  Although we have entered into such arrangements with respect to the development and commercialization of linaclotide worldwide, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future with respect to other products or product candidates or that we will be able to gain the interest of potential partners; establish and maintain development, manufacturing, marketing, sales or distribution relationships on acceptable terms; that such relationships, if established, will be successful or on favorable terms; or that we will gain market acceptance for such products or product candidates.  The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a partnership arrangement is lengthy and complex.  If we enter into any partnering arrangements with third parties, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of such third parties.  If we are unable to establish successful partnering arrangements, we may not gain access to the financial resources and industry experience necessary to develop, commercialize or successfully market our products or product candidates, may be forced to curtail, delay or stop a development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay commercialization, reduce the scope of our planned sales or marketing activities or undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense, and therefore may be unable to generate revenue from our products or product candidates or do so to their full potential.. In pursuing our growth strategy, we will incur a variety of costs and may devote resources to potential opportunities that are never completed or for which we never receive the benefit. Our failure to successfully discover, acquire, develop and market additional product candidates or approved products would impair our ability to grow and adversely affect our business.. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to explore further linaclotide and lesinurad development opportunities. We and Allergan are exploring development opportunities to enhance the clinical profile of LINZESS by studying linaclotide in additional indications, populations and formulations to assess its potential to treat various conditions. Additionally, we have rights to develop products containing lesinurad as an active ingredient in all indications, populations and formulations in the U.S. and we are currently evaluating such development opportunities, as well as opportunities within its approved indications, populations and formulations.  These development efforts may fail or may not increase the revenues that we generate from our products. Furthermore, they may result in adverse events, or perceived adverse events, in certain patient populations that are then attributed to the currently approved patient population, which may result in adverse regulatory action at the FDA or, with respect to linaclotide, in other countries or harm our products' reputation in the marketplace, each of which could materially harm our revenues from our products.. We are also pursuing various other programs in our pipeline. We may spend several years and make significant investments in developing any current or future internal product candidate, and failure may occur at any point. Our product candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved for sale by the FDA. To satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and we must engage in costly and lengthy discovery and development efforts, which are subject to unanticipated delays and other significant uncertainties. Despite our efforts, our product candidates may not offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs, be proven safe and effective in clinical trials, or meet applicable regulatory standards. It is possible that none of the product candidates we are developing will be approved for commercial sale, which would impair our ability to grow.. We have ongoing or planned nonclinical and clinical trials for linaclotide, lesinurad and a number of our internal product candidates, and the strength of our company's pipeline will depend in large part on the outcomes of these studies. Many companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier nonclinical or clinical trials. The findings from our completed nonclinical studies may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and our clinical trials may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage clinical trials or of the likelihood of regulatory approval. Results from our clinical trials and findings from our nonclinical studies could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible limitation or cessation of development activities associated with a particular product candidate or program. Furthermore, our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by the FDA. 38. Table of Contents. and other applicable regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Satisfaction of FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements is costly, time-consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays.. In addition, because our internal research capabilities are limited, we may be dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic scientists and other researchers to sell or license products or technology to us. The success of this strategy depends partly upon our ability to identify, select, discover and acquire promising pharmaceutical product candidates and products. The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquisition of a product candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the license or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional products or product candidates on terms that we find acceptable, or at all.. In addition, such acquisitions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texposure to unknown liabilities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisruption of our business and diversion of our management's time and attention to develop acquired products, product candidates or technologies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincurrence of substantial debt, dilutive issuances of securities or depletion of cash to pay for acquisitions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thigher than expected acquisition and integration costs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased amortization expenses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability to motivate key employees of any acquired businesses.. Furthermore, we may have little or no insight or control over the development and commercialization of any product that we have in-licensed outside the licensed territory.  If other licensees do not effectively develop or commercialize any such product outside the licensed territory, our reputation or the reputation of any such product may be impacted.  Also, any product candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities.. Delays in the completion of clinical testing of any of our product candidates could result in increased costs and delay or limit our ability to generate revenues.. Delays in the completion of clinical testing could significantly affect our product development costs. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a number of reasons, including delays related to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites;. 39. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmanufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate for use in clinical trials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trecruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including competition from other clinical trial programs for the treatment of similar conditions; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up.. Clinical trials may also be delayed as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, an institutional review board overseeing the clinical trial at a clinical trial site (with respect to that site), the FDA, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or the study protocols;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunforeseen safety issues; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlack of adequate enrollment or funding to continue the clinical trial.. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur, and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Each protocol amendment would require institutional review board review and approval, which may adversely impact the costs, timing or successful completion of the associated clinical trials. If we or our partners terminate or experience delays in the completion of any clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our product candidates may be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval.. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we lose any of our current management team or if we are unable to attract and motivate key personnel.. We may not be able to attract or motivate qualified management and scientific, clinical, operations and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the greater-Boston area. If we are not able to attract and motivate necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we will experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our objectives.. We are highly dependent on the drug discovery, development, regulatory, commercial, financial and other expertise of our management, particularly Peter M. Hecht, Ph.D., our chief executive officer; Gina Consylman, our senior vice president, chief financial officer, and treasurer; Mark G. Currie, Ph.D., our senior vice president, chief scientific officer and president of research and development; Halley E. Gilbert, our senior vice president, chief legal officer, and secretary; William Huyett, our chief operating officer; and Thomas A. McCourt, our senior vice president, marketing and sales and chief commercial officer. Transitions in our senior management team may result in operational disruptions, and our business may be harmed as a result. In addition to the competition for personnel, the Boston area in particular is characterized by a high cost of living. As such, we could have difficulty attracting experienced personnel to our company and may be required to expend significant financial resources in our employee recruitment efforts.. We also have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in formulating our product development, clinical strategies and our global supply chain plans, as well as sales and marketing advisors who have assisted us in our commercialization strategy and brand plan for linaclotide and lesinurad. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development and commercialization of products that may compete with ours.. 40. Table of Contents. Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology structure could compromise our information, disrupt our business and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, process and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information of our patients, clinical trial participants and employees. We also rely to a large extent on information technology systems to operate our business, including to deliver our products.  We have outsourced elements of our confidential information processing and information technology structure, and as a result, we are managing independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. Similarly, our business partners and other third-party providers possess certain of our sensitive data. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our large and complex information technology and infrastructure (and those of our partners, vendors and third-party providers) may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. We, our partners, vendors and other third-party providers could be susceptible to third party attacks on our, and their, information security systems, which attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including organized criminal groups, hacktivists, nation states and others.  While we have invested in information technology and security and the protection of confidential information, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches. Any such interruptions or breach would substantially impair our ability to operate our business and would compromise our, and their, networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business.  While we maintain cyber liability insurance, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our (or our partners', vendors' and third-party providers') systems.. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business.. Our activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state, city and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures we use for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, local, city, state or federal authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. We do not currently maintain hazardous materials insurance coverage.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. Limitations on the patent rights relating to our products and our product candidates may limit our ability to prevent third parties from competing against us.. Our success depends on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products and product candidates, preserve our trade secrets, prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others.. The strength of patents in the pharmaceutical industry involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. Patent applications in the U.S. and most other countries are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months or more. As a result, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to conceive inventions covered by our patents and pending patent applications or that we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. In addition, we cannot be certain that our patent applications will be granted, that any issued patents will adequately protect our intellectual property, or that such patents will not be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented.. We have several issued patents and pending applications in the U.S. related to LINZESS, including a LINZESS composition of matter and methods of use patent (U.S. Patent 7,304,036) expiring in 2026. Additional U.S. patents include multiple patents relating to our commercial, room temperature stable formulation of linaclotide and methods of using this formulation, which expire in the early 2030s, as well as other patents and pending patent applications covering. 41. Table of Contents. processes for making LINZESS, formulations and dosing regimens thereof, and molecules related to LINZESS. Although none of these issued patents currently is subject to a patent reexamination or review, we cannot guarantee that they will not be subject to reexamination or review by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, in the future. We believe that each of the patents in our linaclotide patent portfolio was rightfully issued and the portfolio gives us sufficient freedom to operate; however, if any of our present or future patents is invalidated, this could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.  In March 2013, an opposition to one of our granted patents covering linaclotide was filed in Europe. In April 2015, the patent was upheld in its entirety by the European Patent Office, affirming the strength of our intellectual property and our belief that the opposition was without merit. In September 2017, an opposition to one of our granted patents covering a component of CONSTELLA, as well as formulations comprising linaclotide and this component, was filed in Europe.  We believe that the patents that are the subject of these oppositions were appropriately granted but we cannot be certain of this until the opposition proceedings, including the associated appeals processes, are complete.  While the oppositions are ongoing, we will incur additional expense and be required to focus additional efforts on the proceedings. Moreover, successful outcomes in the oppositions do not preclude later challenges to these or other of our patents in the courts.  Even if these patents were ultimately found to be invalid, we have other linaclotide composition of matter-, use- and formulation-related patents that are granted and in force, and we believe these patents provide strong and sufficient patent protection in Europe.. We received an exclusive license from AstraZeneca for several issued patents and pending applications in the U.S. related to ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO, including a composition of matter patent for lesinurad covering both ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO (U.S. Patent 8,003,681), several patents directed to ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO pharmaceutical compositions and methods of use, and patents and applications relating to polymorphic forms of lesinurad and methods of manufacturing lesinurad.  Although none of these issued patents currently is subject to a patent reexamination or review, we cannot guarantee that they will not be subject to reexamination or review by the USPTO in the future. If any or all of the ZURAMPIC- or DUZALLO-related patents were invalidated, we would still have at least five years of marketing exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act from FDA approval of ZURAMPIC. We believe that each of the patents in AstraZeneca's U.S. lesinurad patent portfolio was rightfully issued and the portfolio gives us sufficient freedom to operate; however, if any of AstraZeneca's present or future lesinurad patents is invalidated, this could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, particularly for the period beyond five years following marketing approval.. Furthermore, the America Invents Act, which was signed into law in 2011, has made several major changes in the U.S. patent statutes. These changes permit third parties to challenge our patents more easily and create uncertainty with respect to the interpretation and practice of U.S. patent law.  Moreover, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, narrowing the scope of patent protection available and weakening the rights of patent owners in certain circumstances. Depending on the impact of these decisions and other actions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, the USPTO, and their foreign counterparts, the laws and regulations governing patents may change, or their interpretation or implementation may change, in unpredictable ways that could impact, potentially adversely, our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce and defend patents that we have already obtained or that we might obtain in the future.  For example, such changes may increase the costs and complexity associated with obtaining, enforcing or defending our patents, including in abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, litigation.. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and our partners and consultants. We also have agreements with our employees and selected consultants that obligate them to assign their inventions to us. It is possible, however, that technology relevant to our business will be independently developed by a person that is not a party to such an agreement. Furthermore, if the employees and consultants that are parties to these agreements breach or violate the terms of these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies, and we could lose our trade secrets through such breaches or violations. Additionally, our trade secrets could otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors.. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the U.S., and, therefore, we may encounter problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property in certain foreign jurisdictions.. 42. Table of Contents. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our commercial success depends on our ability, and the ability of our partners, to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our partners are developing products. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our potential products may give rise to claims of infringement of the patent rights of others. There may be issued patents of third parties of which we are currently unaware that may be infringed by linaclotide, lesinurad or our product candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications which may later result in issued patents that linaclotide, lesinurad or our product candidates may infringe.. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, litigation by third parties alleging that linaclotide, lesinurad or our product candidates infringe their intellectual property rights. If linaclotide, lesinurad or one of our product candidates is found to infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, we or our partners could be enjoined by a court and required to pay damages and could be unable to develop or commercialize linaclotide, lesinurad or the applicable product candidate unless we obtain a license to the intellectual property rights. A license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, the counter-party could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable relief which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, pending a trial on the merits, which may not occur for several years.. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our partners infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinfringement and other intellectual property claims which, regardless of merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management's attention from our core business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsubstantial damages for infringement, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party's rights, and, if the court finds that the infringement was willful, we could be ordered to pay treble damages and the patent owner's attorneys' fees;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta court prohibiting us from selling our product unless the third party licenses its rights to us, which it is not required to do;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tif a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees or grant cross-licenses to our intellectual property rights; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tredesigning our products so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial monetary expenditures and time.. We have received notices of Paragraph IV certifications related to linaclotide in conjunction with ANDAs filed by generic drug manufacturers, and may receive additional notices from others in the future.  We have, and may continue to, become involved in legal proceedings to protect or enforce the patents relating to our products and our product candidates, which could be expensive and time consuming, and unfavorable outcomes in such proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Competitors may infringe the patents relating to our products and our product candidates or may assert that such patents are invalid. To counter ongoing or potential infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. Litigation with generic manufacturers has become increasingly common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. In addition, in an infringement or invalidity proceeding, a court or patent administrative body may determine that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. Generic drug manufacturers were first able to file ANDAs for generic versions of LINZESS in August 2016 and will first be able to file ANDAs in December 2019 for ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO, but we may not become aware of these filings for several months after any such submission due to procedures specified under applicable FDA regulations. When filing an ANDA for one of our products, a generic drug manufacturer may choose to challenge. 43. Table of Contents. one or more of the patents that cover such product. As such, we may need to protect our intellectual property rights by bringing legal proceedings against the generic drug manufacturer.. We and Allergan have received Paragraph IV certification notice letters, or Notice Letters, regarding ANDAs submitted to the FDA by generic drug manufacturers requesting approval to engage in commercial manufacture, use, sale and offer for sale of linaclotide capsules (72 mcg, 145 mcg and 290 mcg), proposed generic versions of our FDA-approved drug LINZESS. For additional information relating to such ANDAs, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Frequently, innovators receive multiple ANDA filings.  Consequently, we expect to receive additional notice letters regarding ANDAs submitted to the FDA, and may receive amendments to the Notice Letters.. After evaluation, we may file patent infringement lawsuits or take other action against the companies making ANDA filings.  If a patent infringement suit has been filed within 45 days of receipt of a notice letter, the FDA is not permitted to approve any ANDA that is the subject of such lawsuit for 30 months from the date of the NDA holder's and patent owner's receipt of the ANDA filer's notice letter, or until a court decides that the relevant patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed. In the case of suits filed before expiration of the new chemical entity, or NCE, exclusivity period for a particular drug, the 30-month stay would be calculated from the end of the applicable NCE exclusivity period.  In addition to shortening the 30-month stay based on a decision that the relevant patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed, a court can also shorten or lengthen the 30-month stay under certain limited circumstances.  The NCE exclusivity period for LINZESS expired on August 30, 2017, and the 30-month stay for any ANDA that is the subject of the patent infringement lawsuits filed by us before such expiration date ends on February 29, 2020 (absent any of the foregoing adjustments).  We have filed patent infringement lawsuits against the companies making such ANDA filings, and have entered into a settlement agreement with one such company.  For additional information relating to such lawsuits and settlement, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Additionally, the validity of the patents relating to our products and our product candidates may be challenged by third parties pursuant to administrative procedures introduced by the America Invents Act, specifically inter partes review, or IPR, and/or post grant review, or PGR, before the USPTO. Generic drug manufacturers may challenge our patents through IPRs or PGRs instead of or in addition to ANDA legal proceedings.. Patent litigation (including any lawsuits that we file against generic drug manufacturers in connection with the receipt of a notice letter), IPRs and PGRs involve complex legal and factual questions and we may need to devote significant resources to such legal proceedings. We can provide no assurance concerning the duration or the outcome of any such patent-related lawsuits or administrative proceedings, including any settlements or other resolutions thereof which could, in addition to other risks, result in a shortening of exclusivity periods. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of the patents relating to our products and our product candidates at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, or could otherwise result in a loss of patent protection for the product or product candidate at issue, and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing, which would materially harm our business. Upon any loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon an \"at-risk\" launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation, before any court decision or while an appeal of a lower court decision is pending) by a manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, our revenues for that product could be significantly reduced in a short period of time, which would materially and adversely affect our business.. Interference or derivation proceedings brought by the USPTO may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to the patents relating to our products and our product candidates and patent applications or those of our partners. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if a prevailing party does not offer us a license on terms that are acceptable to us. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distraction of our management and other employees. In addition, we may not be able to prevent, alone or with our partners, misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the U.S.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, as well as the potential for public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceeding or developments, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation.. 44. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and cannot guarantee when, if ever, we will become profitable or attain positive cash flows.. In recent years, we have focused primarily on developing, manufacturing and commercializing our products, as well as developing our other product candidates. We have financed our business to date primarily through the issuance of equity, our collaboration and license arrangements, our January 2013 issuance of our 11% PhaRMA Notes due 2024, or the PhaRMA Notes, related to the sales of LINZESS in the U.S. (which were redeemed, in full, in connection with the funding and issuance in January 2017 of our 8.375% Notes due 2026, or the 2026 Notes) and our June 2015 issuance of our 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due June 15, 2022, or the 2022 Notes, and we have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1998. We currently derive a significant portion of our revenue from our LINZESS collaboration with Allergan for the U.S.  We believe that the revenues from the LINZESS collaboration will continue to constitute a significant portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. We incurred net losses of approximately $116.9 million, approximately $81.7 million and approximately $142.7 million in the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.3 billion. We cannot be certain that sales of our products, and the revenue from our other commercial activities will not fall short of our projections or be delayed. Further, we expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with our efforts to commercialize linaclotide and lesinurad, and research and develop our product candidates. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products, as well as those related to our expectations for our products and our other commercial activities, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or guarantee when, or if, our company will become profitable or cash flow positive. If we never achieve profitability or positive cash flows, or achieve either later than we anticipate, this will have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital.. We may need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could cause us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts.. In January 2017, in connection with the redemption of our PhaRMA Notes, we issued $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2026 Notes bearing an annual interest rate of 8.375%.  In June 2015, we issued approximately $335.7 million aggregate principal amount of our 2022 Notes and we have previously raised additional funds through other capital raising activities, including the sale of shares of our Class A common stock in public offerings and the issuance of our PhaRMA Notes in January 2013 (which were redeemed, in full, in connection with the issuance of our 2026 Notes). However, marketing and selling primary care drugs, purchasing commercial quantities of pharmaceutical products, developing product candidates, conducting clinical trials and accessing externally developed products are expensive and uncertain. Circumstances, our strategic imperatives, or opportunities to create or acquire new programs, as well as maturities, redemptions or repurchases of our outstanding debt securities, could require us to, or we may choose to, seek to raise additional funds. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe level of underlying demand for our products by prescribers and patients in the countries in which they are approved;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe costs associated with commercializing our products in the U.S.;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe costs of establishing, maintaining and/or expanding sales, marketing, distribution, and market access capabilities for our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe regulatory approval of linaclotide outside of the U.S. and the other countries where it is approved and the timing of commercial launches in those countries, and the regulatory approval of linaclotide within new indications, populations and formulations, as well as the associated development and commercial milestones and royalties;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe rate of progress, the cost of our clinical trials and the other costs associated with our linaclotide product development programs, including our post-approval nonclinical and clinical studies of linaclotide in. 45. Table of Contents. pediatrics and our investment to enhance the clinical profile of LINZESS within IBS-C and CIC, as well as to study linaclotide in additional indications, populations and formulations to assess its potential to treat various conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe rate of progress and the costs associated with development of lesinurad, including costs related to the post-marketing clinical trial for lesinurad required by the FDA;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe costs and timing of in-licensing additional products or product candidates or acquiring other complementary companies or assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe achievement and timing of milestone payments and royalties due or payable under our collaboration and license agreements;. <U+F020>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe status, terms and timing of any collaboration, licensing, co-commercialization or other arrangements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing of any regulatory approvals of our product candidates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twhether the holders of our 2022 Notes hold the notes to maturity without conversion into our Class A common stock and whether we are required to repurchase our 2022 Notes prior to maturity upon a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the 2022 Notes; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twhether we seek to redeem or repurchase all or part of our outstanding debt through cash purchases and/or exchanges, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, by tender offer or otherwise.. Additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay or reduce the scope of our commercialization efforts, delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our development programs or delay or abandon potential strategic opportunities.. Our ability to pay principal of and interest on our outstanding debt securities will depend in part on the receipt of payments from Allergan under our collaboration agreement for North America.. In January 2017, we issued, in connection with the redemption of our PhaRMA Notes, $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2026 Notes bearing an annual interest rate of 8.375% and in June 2015, we issued approximately $335.7 million aggregate principal amount of our 2022 Notes bearing an annual interest rate of 2.25%. Semi-annual payments on our 2022 Notes commenced on December 15, 2015.  Quarterly interest payments on our 2026 Notes commenced on June 15, 2017 and, pursuant to the associated indenture, beginning in March 2019 we are obligated to make quarterly payments on our 2026 Notes equal to the greater of (i) 7.5% of net sales of linaclotide in the U.S. for the preceding quarter and (ii) the accrued and unpaid interest on the 2026 Notes. Principal on the 2026 Notes is to be repaid in an amount equal to the difference between (i) and (ii) above, when this is a positive number, until the principal has been paid in full. We expect that for the next few years, at a minimum, the net quarterly payments from Allergan will be a significant source of cash flow from operations. If the cash flows derived from the net quarterly payments that we receive from Allergan under the collaboration agreement for North America are insufficient on any particular payment date to fund the interest payment on our outstanding indebtedness, at a minimum, we will be obligated to pay the amounts of such shortfall out of our general funds. The determination of whether Allergan will be obligated to make a net quarterly payment to us in respect of a particular quarterly period is a function of the revenue generated by LINZESS in the U.S. as well as the development, manufacturing and commercialization expenses incurred by each of us and Allergan under the collaboration agreement for North America. Accordingly, since we cannot guarantee when, or if, our company will become profitable or cash flow positive, we cannot provide assurances that (i) we will have the available funds to fund the interest payment on our outstanding indebtedness, at a minimum, in the event that there is a deficiency in the net quarterly payment received from Allergan, (ii) there will be a net quarterly payment from Allergan at all or (iii) we will not also be required to make a true-up payment to Allergan under the collaboration agreement for North America, in each case, in respect of a particular quarterly period.. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition or restrict our future operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total indebtedness of approximately $485.7 million and available cash, cash equivalents and available for sale securities of approximately $221.4 million. We chose to issue our 2026 Notes (in connection with the redemption, in full, of our PhaRMA Notes) and our 2022 Notes based on the additional strategic. 46. Table of Contents. optionality that they create for us, and the limited restrictions that these debt securities place on our ability to run our business compared to other potential available financing transactions. However, our indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences on our business, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes, including product development, commercialization efforts, research and development activities, strategic arrangements, acquisitions and refinancing of our outstanding debt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, corporate transactions and other general corporate purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tplacing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing our cost of borrowing.. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness, including payments of principal when due on our outstanding indebtedness or, in the case of our 2022 Notes, in connection with a transaction involving us that constitutes a fundamental change under the indenture governing the 2022 Notes, or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity dates thereof, sell assets, reduce or delay currently planned activities or curtail operations, seek to raise additional capital or take other actions. We may not be able to execute any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. This, together with any of the factors described above, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, while our 2022 Notes do not include covenants restricting the operation of our business except in certain limited circumstances, in the event of a default under the 2022 Notes, the noteholders or the trustee under the indenture governing the 2022 Notes may accelerate our payment obligations under the 2022 Notes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also required to offer to repurchase the 2022 Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, which could include, among other things, any acquisition of our company (other than an acquisition in which at least 90% of the consideration is common stock listed on The NASDAQ Global or Global Select Market or The New York Stock Exchange), subject to the terms of the 2022 Notes indenture. The repurchase price must be paid in cash, and this obligation may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing an acquisition of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to our security holders.. Further, although we are not as restricted under our 2026 Notes as we might have been under a more traditional secured credit facility provided by a bank, the indenture governing our 2026 Notes contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in certain acts, including restrictions on our ability to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tamend our collaboration agreement with Allergan for North America in a way that would have a material adverse effect on the noteholders' rights, or terminate this collaboration agreement with respect to the U.S.;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttransfer our rights to commercialize the product under our collaboration agreement with Allergan for North America; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur certain liens.. Upon a breach of the covenants under our 2026 Notes indenture, or if certain other defaults thereunder occur, the holders of our 2026 Notes could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our 2026 Notes to be immediately due and payable and we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient assets to repay them. If we are unable to repay. 47. Table of Contents. those amounts, the holders of our 2026 Notes could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt securities and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If we breach our covenants under our 2026 Notes indenture and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required noteholders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our 2026 Notes indenture and the holders of our 2026 Notes could exercise their rights, as described above.. Each of our 2026 Notes and 2022 Notes also include cross-default features providing that a default under the indenture governing either the 2026 Notes or the 2022 Notes would likely result in a default under the indenture governing the other indebtedness. In the event of such default, the trustee or noteholders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable under the applicable indenture, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Convertible note hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with our 2022 Notes may affect the value of our Class A common stock.. In connection with our 2022 Notes, we entered into Convertible Note Hedges and separate Note Hedge Warrant transactions with certain financial institutions. These transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon any conversion of our 2022 Notes or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted 2022 Notes, as the case may be.. In connection with these transactions, the financial institutions purchased our Class A common stock in secondary market transactions and entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our Class A common stock. These entities or their affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the 2022 Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our Class A common stock or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. Any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock and, as a result, the number of shares and the value of the Class A common stock noteholders will receive upon conversion of the 2022 Notes. In addition, under certain circumstances the counterparties have the right to terminate the Convertible Note Hedges and settle the Note Hedge Warrants at fair value (as defined in the applicable confirmations), which may result in us not receiving all or any portion of the anticipated benefit of the Convertible Note Hedges. If the price of our Class A common stock increases such that the hedge transactions settle in our favor, we could also be exposed to credit risk related to the counterparties to the Convertible Note Hedges, which would limit or eliminate the benefit of such transactions to us.. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly.. We expect our operating results to be subject to frequent fluctuations. Our net loss and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe level of underlying demand for our products in the countries in which they are approved;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twholesalers' buying patterns with respect to our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe costs associated with commercializing our products in the U.S.;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe achievement and timing of milestone payments and royalties due or payable under our collaboration and license agreements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour execution of any collaboration, partnership, licensing or other strategic arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany excess or obsolete inventory, and associated write-downs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany changes in the fair value of contingent consideration and the associated impact on our statement of operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany variations in the level of expenses related to our development programs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\taddition or termination of clinical trials;. 48. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory developments affecting our products and product candidates; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany material lawsuit in which we may become involved.. In addition, any impairments of goodwill or intangible assets and any associated write-downs would have a negative effect on our operating results.  Determining whether an impairment exists and the amount of the potential impairment is subject to significant uncertainty and involves the use of estimates and assumptions. For example, our ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO intangible assets are significant.  We have made a number of estimates and assumptions about these products that could change significantly, including with respect to their commercial performance.  We expect the data received in 2018 from our systematic exploration of a more comprehensive marketing mix in select test markets to inform our future investment in the lesinurad franchise, any of which may impact our estimates and assumptions. If there is a change to our estimates or assumptions for these or other reasons, our ZURAMPIC and DUZALLO intangible assets may become impaired and we may be required to recognize a material write-down.. If our operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts for any of the foregoing reasons or otherwise, the price of our Class A common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially.. Our ability to use net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses to reduce future tax payments is limited by provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and it is possible that our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may expire before we generate sufficient taxable income to use such carryforwards, or that certain transactions or a combination of certain transactions may result in material additional limitations on our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception and cannot guarantee when, if ever, we will become profitable. To the extent that we continue to generate federal and state taxable losses, unused net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards will carry forward to offset future taxable income, if any, until the date, if any, on which such unused carryforwards expire. Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, contain rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes involving stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. Generally, if an ownership change occurs, the yearly taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses is equal to the product of the applicable long term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change.. If we do not generate sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration, if any, of the applicable carryforwards or if the carryforwards are subject to the limitations described above, we may be unable to offset our taxable income with losses, or our tax liability with credits, before such losses and credits expire and therefore would incur larger federal or state income tax liability. We have completed several financings since our inception which may have resulted in a change in control as defined by Section 382, or could result in a change in control in the future.. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock. Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control which could negatively impact the market price of our Class A common stock.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. These provisions include the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur certificate of incorporation provides for a dual class common stock structure. As a result of this structure, holders of our Class B common stock have significant influence over certain matters requiring stockholder approval, including a merger involving Ironwood, a sale of substantially all Ironwood assets and a dissolution or liquidation of Ironwood. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating a change of control transaction that other stockholders may view as beneficial.. 49. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, such that not all members of the board are elected at one time. This staggered board structure prevents stockholders from replacing the entire board at a single stockholders' meeting..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock. The ability to authorize preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tStockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting. Furthermore, stockholders may only remove a member of our board of directors for cause. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect such acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock are not able to take certain actions outside of a stockholders' meeting..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSpecial meetings of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, our chief executive officer or a majority of our board of directors. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock are not able to call a special meeting..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA majority of the outstanding shares of Class B common stock are required to amend our certificate of incorporation and a super-majority (80%) of the outstanding shares of common stock are required to amend our bylaws, which make it more difficult to change the provisions described above.. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws and in the Delaware General Corporation Law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors.. The concentration of voting control on certain corporate matters with our pre-IPO stockholders will limit the ability of the holders of our Class A common stock to influence such matters.. Because of our dual class common stock structure, the holders of our Class B common stock, who consist of our pre-IPO investors (and their affiliates), founders, directors, executives and certain of our employees, are able to control certain corporate matters listed below if any such matter is submitted to our stockholders for approval even though such stockholders own less than 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2017, there were 136,465,526 and 13,983,762 shares of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock issued and outstanding, respectively, and an aggregate of 19,549,828 and 1,536,470 outstanding stock options (vested and unvested) and 2,277,165 and no unvested restricted stock units for shares of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock, respectively.  As of December 31, 2017, the holders of our Class A common stock own approximately 91% and the holders of our Class B common stock own approximately 9% of the outstanding shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock, combined. However, because of our dual class common stock structure these holders of our Class A common stock have approximately 49% and holders of our Class B common stock have approximately 51% of the total votes on each of the matters identified in the list below. This concentrated control of our Class B common stockholders limits the ability of the Class A common stockholders to influence those corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that many of our stockholders do not view as beneficial, which could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. Each share of Class A common stock and each share of Class B common stock has one vote per share on all matters except for the following matters, for which each share of our Class B common stock has ten votes per share and each share of our Class A common stock has one vote per share:. 50. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadoption of a merger or consolidation agreement involving Ironwood;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta sale of all or substantially all of Ironwood's assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta dissolution or liquidation of Ironwood; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tevery matter, if and when any individual, entity or \"group\" (as that term is used in Regulation 13D of the Exchange Act) has, or has publicly disclosed (through a press release or a filing with the SEC) an intent to have, beneficial ownership of 30% or more of the number of outstanding shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock, combined.. We expect that, in accordance with the terms of our certificate of incorporation, each outstanding share of Class B common stock will automatically convert into one share of Class A common stock on December 31, 2018.. If we identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, it could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results and our ability to meet our reporting obligations could be negatively affected, each of which could negatively affect the trading price of our Class A common stock.. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors.. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. Our system of internal controls, however well-designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and includes elements that rely on information from third parties, including our partners. Our system can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, or we discover areas that need improvement in the future, these shortcomings could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, and the price of our Class A common stock could be negatively affected.. Further, we are dependent on our partners for information related to our results of operations. Our net profit or net loss generated from the sales of LINZESS in the U.S. is partially determined based on amounts provided by Allergan and involves the use of estimates and judgments, which could be modified in the future. We are highly dependent on our linaclotide partners for timely and accurate information regarding any revenues realized from sales of linaclotide in their respective territories, and in the case of Allergan for the U.S. and AstraZeneca for China, Hong Kong and Macau, the costs incurred in developing and commercializing it in order to accurately report our results of operations. Our results of operations are also dependent on the timeliness and accuracy of information from any other licensing, collaboration or other partners we may have, as well as our and our partners' use of estimates and judgments. If we do not receive timely and accurate information or if estimated activity levels associated with the relevant collaboration or partnership at a given point in time are incorrect, whether the result of a material weakness or not, we could be required to record adjustments in future periods. Such adjustments, if significant, could have an adverse effect on our financial results, which could lead to a decline in our Class A common stock price.. If we cannot conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Failure to comply with reporting requirements could also subject us to sanctions and/or investigations by the SEC, The NASDAQ Stock Market or other regulatory authorities.. We expect that the price of our Class A common stock will fluctuate substantially.. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile due to many factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe commercial performance of our products in the countries in which they are approved, as well as the costs associated with such activities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany third-party coverage and reimbursement policies for our products;. 51. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopments, litigation or public concern about the safety of our products or our potential products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements concerning product development results, including clinical trial results, or intellectual property rights of us or others;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdeviations in our operating results from any guidance we may provide or the estimates of securities analysts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of additional shares of our common stock or sales of securities convertible into common stock or the perception that these sales might occur;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions or departures of key personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopments concerning current or future collaboration, partnership, licensing or other strategic arrangements; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiscussion of us or our stock price in the financial or scientific press or in online investor communities.. The realization of any of the risks described in these \"Risk Factors\" could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
