[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to a number of risks, some of which are discussed below. Other risks are presented elsewhere in this report and in the information incorporated by reference into this report. You should consider the following risks carefully in addition to the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, before deciding to buy, sell or hold our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Because we depend on government contracts and subcontracts, we face additional risks related to contracting with federal, state and local governments, including budgetary issues and fixed price contracts.    A significant portion of our revenues are derived from contracts with governmental agencies, either as a general contractor, subcontractor or supplier. We anticipate that revenue from government contracts will continue to remain a significant portion of our revenues. Government business is, in general, subject to special risks and challenges, including:. <U+0095> delays in funding and uncertainty regarding the allocation of funds to state and local agencies from the U.S. federal government, delays in the expenditures from the federal highway bill and delays or reductions in other state and local funding dedicated for transportation and ITS projects;    <U+0095> other government budgetary constraints, cut-backs, delays or reallocation of government funding, including without limitation, changes in the new administration;    <U+0095> performance bond requirements;    <U+0095> long purchase cycles or approval processes;    <U+0095> competitive bidding and qualification requirements, as well as our ability to replace large contracts once they have been completed;     <U+0095> changes in government policies and political agendas;    <U+0095> maintenance of relationships with key government entities from whom a substantial portion of our revenue is derived;     <U+0095> milestone requirements and liquidated damage and/or contract termination provisions for failure to meet contract milestones;     <U+0095> adverse weather conditions may cause delays, such as, evacuations and flooding due to hurricanes can result in our inability to perform work in affected areas; and    <U+0095> international conflicts or other military operations that could cause the temporary or permanent diversion of government funding from transportation or other infrastructure projects.. Governmental budgets and plans are subject to change without warning. Certain risks of selling to governmental entities include dependence on appropriations and administrative allocation of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies that may reflect political developments or agendas, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense competition for government business and termination of purchase decisions for the convenience of the governmental entity. Substantial delays in purchase decisions by governmental entities, and the current constraints on government budgets at the federal, state and local level, and the ongoing uncertainty as to the timing and accessibility to government funding could cause our revenues and income to drop substantially or to fluctuate significantly between fiscal periods.. 11. Table of Contents. In addition, a number of our government contracts are fixed price contracts. As a result, we may not be able to recover any cost overruns we may incur. These fixed price contracts require us to estimate the total project cost based on preliminary projections of the project's requirements. The financial viability of any given project depends in large part on our ability to estimate these costs accurately and complete the project on a timely basis. In the event our costs on these projects exceed the fixed contractual amount, we will be required to bear the excess costs. Such additional costs would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, certain of our government contracts are subject to termination or renegotiation at the convenience of the government, which could result in a large decline in our revenues in any given period. Our inability to address any of the foregoing concerns or the loss or renegotiation of any material government contract could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We recently expanded our Agriculture and Weather Analytics capabilities to address a new market segment, the agricultural market, which may not broadly accept our technologies and new products.    The application of digital analytics to the agricultural market is a relatively new development that has required us to invest, and is expected to continue to require us to invest, in additional research and development, and sales and marketing without any guarantee of a commensurate increase in revenues. The introduction of any new Agriculture and Weather Analytics products and services could have longer than expected sales cycles, which could adversely impact our operating results. We cannot assure you that growers or other companies in this market will perceive the value proposition of our Agriculture and Weather Analytics or that our new ClearAg products for this market will achieve broad market acceptance in the near future or at all. If the agricultural market fails to understand and appreciate the benefit of our Agriculture and Weather Analytics products or chooses not to adopt our technologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.. We may not be able to achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future.    For Fiscal 2018 and Fiscal 2017, we had net losses of $3.5 million and $4.8 million, respectively, and we cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the future. Our ability to become profitable in future periods could be impacted by governmental budgetary constraints, government and political agendas, economic instability and other items that are not in our control. Furthermore, we rely on operating profits from certain of our business segments to fund investments in sales and marketing and research and development initiatives. We cannot assure you that our financial performance will sustain a sufficient level to completely support those investments. Most of our expenses are fixed in advance. As such, we generally are unable to reduce our expenses significantly in the short-term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues or increases in planned investments. As a result, we may continue to experience operating losses and net losses in the future, which would make it difficult to fund our operations and achieve our business plan, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. Our profitability could be adversely affected if we are not able to maintain adequate utilization of our Transportation Systems workforce.    The cost of providing our Transportation Systems engineering and consulting services, including the extent to which we utilize our workforce, affects our profitability. The rate at which we utilize our workforce is affected by a number of factors, including:. <U+0095> our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new assignments and to hire and assimilate new employees;     <U+0095> our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in our various regions;     <U+0095> the timing of new contract awards or the completion of large contract;    <U+0095> availability of funding or other budget issues;. 12. Table of Contents. <U+0095> our need to devote time and resources to training, business development, professional development and other non-chargeable activities; and     <U+0095> our ability to match the skill sets of our employees to the needs of the marketplace.. An inability to properly and fully utilize our Transportation Systems workforce could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We recently entered into the software development market and may be subject to additional challenges and additional costs and delays.    We have only been in the business of software development for a few years and may experience development and technical challenges. Our business and results of operations could also be seriously harmed by any significant delays in our software development and updates. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in our software after its release. Any faults or errors in our existing products or in any new products may cause delays in product introduction and shipments, require design modifications, or harm customer relationships or our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business and competitive position. In addition, the software development industry frequently experiences litigation concerning intellectual property disputes, which could be costly and distract our management.. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards, we will not be able to remain competitive, and the demand for our products will likely decline.    Our markets are in general characterized by the following factors:. <U+0095> rapid technological advances;    <U+0095> downward price pressures in the marketplace as technologies mature;    <U+0095> changes in customer requirements;    <U+0095> additional qualification requirements related to new products or components;    <U+0095> frequent new product introductions and enhancements;    <U+0095> inventory issues related to transition to new or enhanced models; and    <U+0095> evolving industry standards and changes in the regulatory environment.. Our future success will depend upon our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards, and to effectively develop, introduce, market and gain broad acceptance of new products and product enhancements incorporating the latest technological advancements.. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner, or are unable to achieve market acceptance of our new products, our operating results would be adversely affected.    We believe our revenue growth and future operating results will depend on our ability to complete development of new products and enhancements, introduce these products in a timely, cost-effective manner, achieve broad market acceptance of these products and enhancements, and reduce our production costs. During the past two fiscal years, we have introduced both new and enhanced products across all segments. We cannot guarantee the success of these products, and we may not be able to introduce any new products or any enhancements to our existing products on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, the introduction of any new products could adversely affect the sales of certain of our existing products.. We believe that we must continue to make substantial investments to support ongoing research and development in order to develop new or enhanced products and software to remain competitive. We need to continue to develop and introduce new products that incorporate the latest technological advancements in outdoor image processing hardware, camera technologies, software and analysis in response to evolving customer requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately. 13. Table of Contents. manage product transition issues. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments or changing customer requirements or if we cannot adequately manage inventory issues typically related to new product transitions and introductions. We cannot assure you that any such investments in research and development will lead to any corresponding increase in revenue.. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our customer's personal and/or proprietary data in connection with our web-based and mobile application services, we may incur significant liabilities, our services may be perceived as not being secure and customers may curtail or stop using our services, we could incur significant liability to our customers and to individuals or businesses whose information was being stored, our business may suffer and our reputation will be damaged.    Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage, systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and have many more established competitors than us, which could adversely affect our revenues or the market acceptance of our products.    We compete with numerous other companies in our target markets including, but not limited to, large, multi-national corporations and many smaller regional engineering firms.. We compete with existing, well-established companies and technologies in our Roadway Sensors segment, both domestically and abroad. Only a portion of the traffic intersection market has adopted advanced above-ground detection technologies, and our future success will depend in part upon gaining broader market acceptance for such technologies. Certain technological barriers to entry make it difficult for new competitors to enter the market with competing video or other technologies; however, we are aware of new market entrants from time to time. Increased competition could result in loss of market share, price reductions and reduced gross margins, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Transportation Systems market is highly fragmented and is subject to evolving national and regional quality and safety standards. Our competitors vary in size, number, scope and breadth of the products and services they offer, and include large multi-national engineering firms and smaller local regional firms.. The markets in which our Agriculture and Weather Analytics segment operates vary from public sector customers who focus on snow and ice management for state and county roadways, to commercial sector customers who employ our environmental content and agronomic models. Our competitors include divisions of large, international weather companies, as well as a variety of small providers in the road weather market. In the commercial agriculture sector, we compete with a variety of public and private entities that currently market software, agronomic analytics and weather forecast capabilities to the agribusiness.. In each of our operating segments, many of our competitors have far greater name recognition and greater financial, technological, marketing and customer service resources than we do. This may allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. It may also allow them to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services than we can. Consolidations of end users, distributors and manufacturers in our target markets exacerbate this problem. As a result of the foregoing factors, we may not be able to compete effectively in our target markets and competitive pressures could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could harm our competitive position.    If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce the proprietary aspects of our technology, competitors may be able to access our proprietary technology and our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be seriously harmed. We currently attempt to protect our technology through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and similar means. Despite our efforts, other parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our technologies or systems. Our competitors may also be able to independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or design around our patents. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the U.S. As a result, we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights adequately in the U.S. or abroad.. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation may also be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity by others. We have in the past, and may in the future, be subject to litigation regarding our intellectual property rights. An adverse outcome in litigation or any similar proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license disputed rights from others or require us to cease marketing or using certain products or technologies. We may not be able to obtain any licenses on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may have to indemnify certain customers or strategic partners if it is determined that we have infringed upon or misappropriated another party's intellectual property. Our recent expansion into software development activities may subject us to increased possibility of litigation. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of addressing any intellectual property litigation claim, including legal fees and expenses, and the diversion of management's attention and resources, regardless of whether the claim is valid, could be significant and could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our failure to successfully secure new contracts and renew existing contracts could reduce our revenues and profitability.    Our business depends on our ability to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector customers. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which are affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a customer may require us to provide a surety bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions continue, or if we fail to secure adequate financing arrangements or the required governmental approval or fail to meet other required conditions, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could reduce or eliminate our profitability.. We may continue to be subject to traffic related litigation.    The traffic industry in general is subject to litigation claims due to the nature of personal injuries that result from traffic accidents. As a provider of traffic engineering services, products and solutions, we are, and could from time to time in the future continue to be, subject to litigation for traffic related accidents, even if our products or services did not cause the particular accident. While we generally carry insurance against these types of claims, some claims may not be covered by insurance or the damages resulting from such litigation could exceed our insurance coverage limits. In the event that we are required to pay significant damages as a result of one or more lawsuits that are not covered by insurance or exceed our coverage limits, it could materially harm our business, financial condition or cash flows. Even defending against unsuccessful claims could cause us to incur significant expenses and result in a diversion of management's attention.. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel, including senior management, which could seriously harm our business.    Due to the specialized nature of our business, we are highly dependent on the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, engineering and technical. 15. Table of Contents. personnel. We believe that our success will depend on the continued employment of a highly qualified and experienced senior management team and our ability to retain existing business and generate new business. The loss of any of our officers, or any of our other executives or key members of management could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations (e.g., loss of customers or loss of new business opportunities). Our success will also depend in large part upon our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified engineering and other highly skilled technical personnel. Particularly in highly specialized areas, it has become more difficult to retain employees and meet all of our needs for employees in a timely manner, which may adversely affect our growth in the current fiscal year and in future years. Although we intend to continue to devote significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified skilled personnel, we may not be able to attract and retain these employees and therefore could impair our ability to perform our contractual obligations efficiently and timely meet our customers' needs and win new business, which could adversely affect our future results. The future success of our Transportation Systems segment will depend on our ability to hire additional qualified engineers, planners and technical personnel. The future success of our Agriculture and Weather Analytics segment will depend on our ability to hire additional software developers, qualified engineers and technical personnel. Competition for qualified employees, particularly development engineers and software developers, is intense. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain sufficient numbers of such highly skilled employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees or the loss of one or more of our current key employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our management information systems and databases could be disrupted by system security failures, cyber threats or by the failure of, or lack of access to, our Enterprise Resource Planning system. These disruptions could negatively impact our sales, increase our expenses and/or harm our reputation.    Internal users and computer programmers may be able to penetrate, aka \"hack\", our network security and create system disruptions, cause shutdowns and/or misappropriate our confidential information or that of our employees and third parties. Therefore, we could incur significant expenses addressing problems created by security breaches to our network. We must, and do, take precautions to secure customer information and prevent unauthorized access to our databases and systems containing confidential information. Any data loss or information security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use or disclosure of confidential, sensitive or classified information could result in claims, remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us, loss of current and future contracts and serious harm to our reputation. We operate our Enterprise Resource Planning system on a software-as-a-service platform, and we use this system for reporting, planning, sales, audit, customer relationship management, inventory control, loss prevention, purchase order management and business intelligence. Accordingly, we depend on this system, and the third-party provide of this service, for a number of aspects of our operations. If this service provider or this system fails, or if we are unable to continue to have access to this system on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, operations would be severely disrupted until an equivalent system could be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our operations. This disruption would have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we experience declining or flat revenues and we fail to manage such declines effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan and may experience future weaknesses in our operating results.    Based on our business objectives, and in order to achieve future growth, we will need to continue to add additional qualified personnel, and invest in additional research and development and sales and marketing activities, which could lead to increases in our expenses and future declines in our operating results. In addition, our past expansion has placed, and future expansion is expected to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage these activities or any revenue declines successfully, our growth, our business, our financial condition and our results of operations could continue to be adversely affected.. 16. Table of Contents. Our use of estimates in conjunction with the percentage of completion method of accounting for our Transportation Systems revenues could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenues and profits.    A portion of Transportation Systems revenues are measured and recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting. Our use of this accounting method results in recognition of revenues and profits proportionally over the life of a contract, based generally on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred for the entire project. The effects of revisions to revenues and estimated costs are recorded when the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. Although we have historically made reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion of long-term engineering, program management, construction management or construction contracts, the uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary materially from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the new revenue recognition standard ASC 606 could materially affect our revenue recognition.    As discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Recent Accounting Pronouncements), effective March 1, 2018, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issued Accounting Standards Update (\"ASU\") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (\"ASC 606\"). We believe that ASC 606 and related revenue recognition policies will not result in a material change to our consolidated financial statements, and will not cause any significant changes to the amount and timing of our recognition of future revenue and cost. However, uncertainties in future guidance of the interpretation and application of ASC 606 could materially affect our revenue and cost recognition.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.    The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted on December 22, 2017, and significantly affected U.S. tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in the period issued. The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously provided in U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. As a result, we have provided a provision on the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements. As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, and the accounting treatment is clarified, we plan to perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and may need to refine our estimates in calculating the impact of such further guidance. As such, our final analysis may be different from our current provisional amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. Declines in the value of securities held in our investment portfolio can affect us negatively.    As of March 31, 2018, the value of securities available for sale and held to maturity within our investment portfolio was $9.0 million, which is generally determined based upon market values available from third-party sources, may fluctuate as a result of market volatility and economic or financial market conditions. Declines in the value of securities held in our investment portfolio negatively impact our levels of capital and liquidity. Further, to the extent that we experience unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities from declines in securities values that management determines to be other than temporary, the book value of those securities will be adjusted to their estimated recovery value and we will recognize a charge to earnings in the quarter during which we make that determination. Although we have policies and procedures in place to assess and mitigate potential impacts of market risks, including hedging-related strategies, those policies and procedures are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently. 17. Table of Contents. unanticipated or unknown risks. Accordingly, we could suffer adverse effects as a result of our failure to anticipate and manage these risks properly.. If our internal controls over financial reporting do not comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business and stock price could be adversely affected.    Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 currently requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting at the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. We are required to obtain our auditors' attestation pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Going forward, we may not be able to complete the work required for such attestation on a timely basis and, even if we timely complete such requirements, our independent registered public accounting firm may still conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective.. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within Iteris have been or will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If we are not able to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we may lose the confidence of investors and analysts and our stock price could decline.. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate as a result of many factors. Therefore, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline.    Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. Factors that could affect our revenues include, among others, the following:. <U+0095> delays in government contracts and funding from time to time and budgetary constraints at the federal, state and local levels;     <U+0095> our ability to access stimulus funding, funding from the federal highway bill or other government funding;     <U+0095> declines in new home and commercial real estate construction and related road and other infrastructure construction;     <U+0095> changes in our pricing policies and the pricing policies of our suppliers and competitors, pricing concessions on volume sales, as well as increased price competition in general;    <U+0095> the long lead times associated with government contracts;    <U+0095> the size, timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders;    <U+0095> our ability to control costs;    <U+0095> our ability to raise additional capital;. 18. Table of Contents. <U+0095> the mix of our products and services sold in a quarter, which has varied and is expected to continue to vary from time to time;     <U+0095> seasonality due to winter weather conditions;    <U+0095> seasonality with respect to revenues from our ClearPath Weather and related weather forecasting services due to the decrease in revenues generated for such services during the spring and summer time periods;    <U+0095> our ability to develop, introduce, patent, market and gain market acceptance of new products, applications and product enhancements in a timely manner, or at all;    <U+0095> market acceptance of the products incorporating our technologies and products;    <U+0095> the introduction of new products by competitors;    <U+0095> the availability and cost of components used in the manufacture of our products;    <U+0095> our success in expanding and implementing our sales and marketing programs;    <U+0095> the effects of technological changes in our target markets;    <U+0095> the amount of our backlog at any given time;    <U+0095> the nature of our government contracts;    <U+0095> decrease in revenues derived from key or significant customers;    <U+0095> deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products, applications or product enhancements;    <U+0095> risks and uncertainties associated with our international business;    <U+0095> market condition changes such as industry structure consolidations that could slow down our ability to procure new business;     <U+0095> general economic and political conditions;    <U+0095> international conflicts and acts of terrorism; and    <U+0095> other factors beyond our control, including but not limited to, natural disasters.. Due to all of the factors listed above as well as other unforeseen factors, our future operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As a result of these quarterly variations, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance.. We rely on outside suppliers that could experience supply shortages or may experience production gaps that could materially and adversely impact our sales and financial results.    It is possible that we could experience unforeseen quality control issues or part shortages as we adjust production to meet current demand for our products. We have historically used single suppliers for certain significant components in our products, and have had to reengineer products from time to time to address obsolete components, especially in our Roadway Sensors products. Should any such delay or disruption occur, or should a key supplier discontinue operations, our future sales will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, we rely heavily on select contract manufacturers to produce many of our products and do not have any long-term contracts to guarantee supply of such products. Although we believe our contract manufacturers have sufficient capacity to meet our production schedules for the foreseeable future and we believe we could find alternative contract manufacturing sources for many of our products, if necessary, we could experience a production gap if for any reason our contract. 19. Table of Contents. manufacturers were unable to meet our production requirements and our cost of goods sold could increase, adversely affecting our margins.. We may engage in acquisitions of companies or technologies that may require us to undertake significant capital infusions and could result in disruptions of our business and diversion of resources and management attention.    We have completed two acquisitions since November 2011 and, in the future, we may acquire additional complementary businesses, products, and technologies. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions and, in general, acquisitions also involve a number of special risks, including:. <U+0095> potential disruption of our ongoing business and the diversion of our resources and management's attention;     <U+0095> the failure to retain or integrate key acquired personnel;    <U+0095> the challenge of assimilating diverse business cultures, and the difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and information system of the acquired companies;    <U+0095> increased costs to improve managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems and to eliminate duplicative services;     <U+0095> the incurrence of unforeseen obligations or liabilities;    <U+0095> potential impairment of relationships with employees or customers as a result of changes in management; and     <U+0095> increased interest expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets, as well as unanticipated accounting charges.. Our competitors are also soliciting potential acquisition candidates, which could both increase the price of any acquisition targets and decrease the number of attractive companies available for acquisition. Acquisitions may also materially and adversely affect our operating results due to large write-offs, contingent liabilities, substantial depreciation, deferred compensation charges or intangible asset amortization, or other adverse tax or accounting consequences. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or consummate any additional acquisitions, successfully integrate any acquisitions or realize the benefits anticipated from any acquisition.. Our international business operations may be threatened by many factors that are outside of our control.    While we historically have had limited international sales, revenues and operational experience, we previously had Transportation Systems contracts in the United Arab Emirates (\"UAE\"), for which approximately $130,000 in performance bonds have not yet been released by the UAE Department of Transportation. We also have been expanding our distribution capabilities for our Roadway Sensors segment internationally, particularly in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Europe and in South America. We plan to continue to expand our international efforts, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful in such efforts. International operations subject us to various inherent risks including, among others:. <U+0095> political, social and economic instability, as well as international conflicts and acts of terrorism;     <U+0095> bonding requirements for certain international projects;    <U+0095> longer accounts receivable payment cycles;    <U+0095> import and export license requirements and restrictions of the U.S. and each other country in which we operate;     <U+0095> currency fluctuations and restrictions, and our ability to repatriate currency from certain foreign regions;. 20. Table of Contents. <U+0095> unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers or restrictions;    <U+0095> required compliance with existing and new foreign regulatory requirements and laws, more restrictive labor laws and obligations, including but not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;    <U+0095> difficulties in managing and staffing international operations;    <U+0095> potentially adverse tax consequences; and    <U+0095> reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries.. Substantially all of our international product sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the relative value of the dollar could make our products more expensive and potentially less price competitive in international markets. We do not currently engage in any transactions as a hedge against risks of loss due to foreign currency fluctuations.. Any of the factors mentioned above may adversely affect our future international revenues and, consequently, affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, as we pursue the expansion of our international business, certain fixed and other overhead costs could outpace our revenues, thus adversely affecting our results of operations. We may likewise face local competitors in certain international markets who are more established, have greater economies of scale and stronger customer relationships. Furthermore, as we increase our international sales, our total revenues may also be affected to a greater extent by seasonal fluctuations resulting from lower sales that typically occur during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.    We have historically experienced volatility in our earnings and cash flows from operations from year to. On September 1, 2017, we filed a registration statement on a Form S-3, utilizing a \"shelf\" registration process, and may consider a new equity financing in the future. Should the credit markets further tighten or our business declines, we may need or choose to raise additional capital to fund our operations, to repay indebtedness, pursue acquisitions or expand our operations. Such additional capital may be raised through bank borrowings, or other debt or equity financings. We cannot assure you that any additional capital will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all, and such additional financing may result in further dilution to our stockholders.. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to:. <U+0095> market acceptance of our products and product enhancements, and the overall level of sales of our products;     <U+0095> our ability to control costs;    <U+0095> the supply of key components for our products;    <U+0095> our ability to increase revenue and net income;    <U+0095> increased research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses;    <U+0095> our need to respond to technological advancements and our competitors' introductions of new products or technologies;     <U+0095> capital improvements to new and existing facilities and enhancements to our infrastructure and systems;     <U+0095> potential acquisitions of businesses and product lines;    <U+0095> our relationships with customers and suppliers;. 21. Table of Contents. <U+0095> government budgets, political agendas and other funding issues, including potential delays in government contract awards;     <U+0095> our ability to successfully negotiate credit arrangements with our bank and the state of the financial markets in general; and     <U+0095> general economic conditions, including the effects of the economic slowdowns and international conflicts.. If our capital requirements are materially different from those currently planned, we may need additional capital sooner than anticipated. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. Additional equity or debt financing may not be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue our operations as planned, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures.. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile.    The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in the past. From August 1, 2015 through May 31, 2018, our common stock has traded at prices as low as $1.77 per share and as high as $8.17 per share. The market price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate in the future in response to various factors, including, but not limited to:. <U+0095> quarterly variations in operating results;    <U+0095> our ability to control costs, improve cash flow and sustain profitability;    <U+0095> our ability to raise additional capital;    <U+0095> shortages announced by suppliers;    <U+0095> announcements of technological innovations or new products or applications by our competitors, customers or us;     <U+0095> transitions to new products or product enhancements;    <U+0095> acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies;    <U+0095> the impact of any litigation;    <U+0095> changes in investor perceptions;    <U+0095> government funding, political agendas and other budgetary constraints;    <U+0095> changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry in general;     <U+0095> changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts; and    <U+0095> international conflicts, political unrest and acts of terrorism.. The stock market has from time to time experienced volatility, which has often affected and may continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were to become the subject of a class action lawsuit, it could result in substantial losses and divert management's attention and resources from other matters.. 22. Table of Contents. Certain provisions of our charter documents may discourage a third party from acquiring us and may adversely affect the price of our common stock.    Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though an acquisition might be beneficial to our stockholders. Such provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights and preferences superior to those of our common stock. In August 2009, we adopted a stockholder rights plan and declared a dividend of preferred stock purchase rights to our stockholders. Generally, the stockholder rights plan provides that if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock, subject to certain exceptions and under certain circumstances, the rights may be exchanged by us for common stock or the holders of the rights, other than the acquiring person or group, could acquire additional shares of our capital stock at a discount off of the then current market price. Such exchanges or exercise of rights could cause substantial dilution to a particular acquirer and discourage the acquirer from pursuing our company. The mere existence of a stockholder rights plan often delays or makes a merger, tender offer or other acquisition of the company more difficult."
