[1] "ITEM 1A:    RISK FACTORS. We are dependent on the utility industry, which has experienced volatility in capital spending.. We derive the majority of our revenues from sales of products and services to utilities. Purchases of our products may be deferred as a result of many factors, including economic downturns, slowdowns in new residential and commercial construction, customers' access to capital upon acceptable terms, the timing and availability of government subsidies or other incentives, utility specific financial circumstances, mergers and acquisitions, regulatory decisions, weather conditions, and fluctuating interest rates. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, variability in operating results on an annual and a quarterly basis as a result of these factors.. We depend on our ability to develop competitive products.. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to design and manufacture competitive products, and to enhance and sustain our existing products, keep pace with technological advances and changing customer requirements, gain international market acceptance, and manage other factors in the markets in which we sell our products. Product development will require continued investment in order to maintain our competitive position, and the periods in which we incur significant product development costs may drive variability in our quarterly results. We may not have the necessary capital, or access to capital at acceptable terms, to make these investments. We have made, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in technology development. However, we may experience unforeseen problems in the development or performance of our technologies or products, which can prevent us from meeting our product development schedules. New products often require certifications or regulatory approvals before the products can be used and we cannot be certain that our new products will be approved in a timely manner. Finally, we may not achieve market acceptance of our new products and services.. Utility industry sales cycles can be lengthy and unpredictable.. The utility industry is subject to substantial government regulation. Regulations have often influenced the frequency of meter replacements. Sales cycles for standalone meter products have typically been based on annual or biennial bid-based agreements. Utilities place purchase orders against these agreements as their inventories decline, which can create fluctuations in our sales volumes.. Sales cycles for smart metering solutions are generally long and unpredictable due to several factors, including budgeting, purchasing, and regulatory approval processes that can take several years to complete. Our utility customers typically issue requests for quotes and proposals, establish evaluation processes, review different technical options with vendors, analyze performance and cost/benefit justifications, and perform a regulatory review, in addition to applying the normal budget approval process. Today, governments around the world are implementing new laws and regulations to promote increased energy efficiency, slow or reverse growth in the consumption of scarce resources, reduce carbon dioxide emissions, and protect the environment. Many of the legislative and regulatory initiatives encourage utilities to develop a smart grid infrastructure, and some of these initiatives provide for government subsidies, grants, or other incentives to utilities and other participants in their industry to promote transition to smart grid technologies. If government regulations regarding the smart grid and smart metering are delayed, revised to permit lower or different investment levels in metering infrastructure, or terminated altogether, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, cash flow, and financial condition.. Our customer contracts are complex and contain provisions that could cause us to incur penalties, be liable for damages, and/or incur unanticipated expenses with respect to the functionality, deployment, operation, and availability of our products and services.. In addition to the risk of unanticipated warranty or recall expenses, our customer contracts may contain provisions that could cause us to incur penalties, be liable for damages, including liquidated damages, or incur other expenses if we experience difficulties with respect to the functionality, deployment, operation, and availability of our products and services. Some of these contracts contain long-term commitments to a set schedule of delivery or performance. If we failed in our estimated schedule or we fail in our management of the project, this may cause delays in completion. In the event of late deliveries, late or improper installations or operations, failure to meet product or performance specifications or other product defects, or interruptions or delays in our managed service offerings, our customer contracts may expose us to penalties, liquidated damages, and other liabilities. In the event we were to incur contractual penalties, such as liquidated damages or other related costs that exceed our expectations, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Further, we could be required to recognize a current-period reduction of revenue related to a specific component of a customer contract at the time we determine the products and/or services to be delivered under that component would result in a loss due to expected revenues estimated to be less than expected costs. Depending on the amounts of the associated revenues (if any) and the costs, this charge could be material to our results of operations in the period it is recognized.. 6. Table of Contents. We depend on certain key vendors, strategic partners, and other third parties.. Certain of our products, subassemblies, and system components including most of our circuit boards are procured from limited or sole sources. We cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with these sources, including reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines, increases in manufacturing costs, vendors' access to capital and increased lead times. Additionally, our manufacturers may experience disruptions in their manufacturing operations due to equipment breakdowns, labor strikes or shortages, natural disasters, component or material shortages, cost increases or other similar problems. Further, in order to minimize their inventory risk, our manufacturers might not order components from third-party suppliers with adequate lead time, thereby impacting our ability to meet our demand forecast. Therefore, if we fail to manage our relationship with our manufacturers effectively, or if they experience operational difficulties, our ability to ship products to our customers and distributors could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. In the event that we receive shipments of products that fail to comply with our technical specifications or that fail to conform to our quality control standards, and we are not able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, we risk revenue losses from the inability to sell those products, increased administrative and shipping costs, and lower profitability. Additionally, if defects are not discovered until after consumers purchase our products, they could lose confidence in the technical attributes of our products and our business could be harmed. Although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, we may remain responsible to the consumer for warranty service in the event of product defects and could experience an unanticipated product defect or warranty liability. While the Company relies on its partners to adhere to its supplier code of conduct, material violations of the supplier code of conduct could occur.. We face increasing competition.. We face competitive pressures from a variety of companies in each of the markets we serve. Some of our present and potential future competitors have, or may have, substantially greater financial, marketing, technical, or manufacturing resources and, in some cases, have greater name recognition, customer relationships, and experience. Some competitors may enter markets we serve and sell products at lower prices in order to gain or grow market share. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products and services than we can. Some competitors have made, and others may make, strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that enhance their ability to address the needs of our prospective customers. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. Other companies may also drive technological innovation and develop products that are equal in quality and performance or superior to our products, which could put pressure on our market position, reduce our overall sales, and require us to invest additional funds in new technology development. In addition, there is a risk that low-cost providers will expand their presence in our markets, improve their quality, or form alliances or cooperative relationships with our competitors, thereby contributing to future price erosion. Some of our products and services may become commoditized, and we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. Further, some utilities may purchase meters separately from the communication devices. The specifications for such meters may require interchangeability, which could lead to further commoditization of the meter, driving prices lower and reducing margins. Should we fail to compete successfully with current or future competitors, we could experience material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our current and expected level and terms of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and take advantage of new business opportunities and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments, and our ability to service our indebtedness is dependent on our ability to generate cash, which is influenced by many factors beyond our control.. On December 22, 2017, we issued $300 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due 2026 (December Notes). The December Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of December 22, 2017 (Indenture), among Itron, the guarantors from time to time party thereto and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee.  The December Notes formed part of the financing of the merger consideration for the acquisition of Silver Spring Networks, Inc. (SSNI) by Itron (SSNI Acquisition). On January 19, 2018, we issued an additional $100 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due 2026 pursuant to the Indenture (January Notes). The proceeds from the January Notes were used to refinance existing indebtedness related to the SSNI Acquisition, pay related fees and expenses, and for general corporate purposes.. On January 5, 2018, we entered into a credit agreement providing for committed credit facilities in the amount of $1.15 billion (the 2018 credit facility). The 2018 credit facility consists of a U.S. dollar term loan in the amount of $650 million and a multicurrency revolving credit facility in the committed amount of $500 million. The 2018 credit facility amended and restated. 7. Table of Contents. in its entirety our amended and restated credit agreement dated June 23, 2015 and replaced committed facilities in the amount of $725 million.. The substantial indebtedness incurred in December and January could have important consequences to us, including:. • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow used in operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our liquidity and our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, and corresponding increased interest expense, as borrowings under the 2018 credit facility would be at variable rates of interest;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and. • limiting our ability to adjust to changing marketplace conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors who may have less debt.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our indebtedness depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which is influenced, in part, by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, counterparty business and other risks that are beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the U.S. banking and capital markets. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt to refinance our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Even if refinancing indebtedness is available, any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants that could further restrict our business operations.. Moreover, in the event of a default under any of our indebtedness the holders of the defaulted debt could elect to declare all the funds borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, which in turn could result in cross defaults under our other indebtedness. The lenders under the 2018 credit facility could also elect to terminate their commitments thereunder and cease making further loans, and such lenders could institute foreclosure proceedings against their collateral, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If we breach our covenants under the 2018 credit facility, we would be in default thereunder. Such lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. The 2018 credit facility will bear, and other indebtedness we may incur in the future may bear, interest at a variable rate. As a result, at any given time interest rates on the 2018 credit facility and any other variable rate debt could be higher or lower than current levels. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness may increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and therefore net income and associated cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, may correspondingly decrease. While we continually monitor and assess our interest rate risk and may institute derivative instruments to manage such risk in the future, these instruments could be ineffective at mitigating all or a part of our risk, including changes to the applicable margin under our 2018 credit facility.. Our 2018 credit facility and Senior Notes limit our ability and the ability of many of our subsidiaries to take certain actions.. Our 2018 credit facility and Senior Notes place restrictions on our ability, and the ability of many of our subsidiaries, dependent on meeting specified financial ratios, to, among other things:. •    incur more debt;   •    pay dividends, make distributions, and repurchase capital stock; •    make certain investments;   •    create liens; •    enter into transactions with affiliates;   •    enter into sale lease-back transactions; •    merge or consolidate;   •    transfer or sell assets.. 8. Table of Contents. Our 2018 credit facility contain other customary covenants, including the requirement to meet specified financial ratios and provide periodic financial reporting. Our ability to borrow will depend on the satisfaction of these covenants. Events beyond our control can affect our ability to meet those covenants. Our failure to comply with obligations under our borrowing arrangements may result in declaration of an event of default. An event of default, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of required payments against such indebtedness. We cannot be certain we will be able to remedy any such defaults. If our required payments are accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient funds available to pay the indebtedness or that we will have the ability to raise sufficient capital to replace the indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. In addition, in the case of an event of default under our secured indebtedness such as our 2018 credit facility, the lenders may be permitted to foreclose on our assets securing that indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, we will be limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above.. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the credit agreement that currently governs our 2018 credit facility, the Senior Notes, and other debt instruments contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. Additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as certain trade payables that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. To the extent we incur additional indebtedness or other obligations, the risks described in the immediately preceding risk factor and others described herein may increase.. Our acquisitions of and investments in third parties have risks.. We may complete acquisitions or make investments in the future, both within and outside of the United States. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks such as the diversion of senior management's attention; unsuccessful integration of the acquired entity's personnel, operations, technologies, and products; incurrence of significant expenses to meet an acquiree's customer contractual commitments; lack of market acceptance of new services and technologies; or difficulties in operating businesses in international legal jurisdictions. Failure to adequately address these issues could result in the diversion of resources and adversely impact our ability to manage our business. In addition, acquisitions and investments in third parties may involve the assumption of obligations, significant write-offs, or other charges associated with the acquisition. Impairment of an investment, goodwill, or an intangible asset may result if these risks were to materialize. For investments in entities that are not wholly owned by Itron, such as joint ventures, a loss of control as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) could result in a significant change in accounting treatment and a change in the carrying value of the entity. There can be no assurances that an acquired business will perform as expected, accomplish our strategic objectives, or generate significant revenues, profits, or cash flows.. We may face adverse publicity, consumer or political opposition, or liability associated with our products.. The safety and security of the power grid and natural gas and water supply systems, the accuracy and protection of the data collected by meters and transmitted via the smart grid, concerns about the safety and perceived health risks of using radio frequency communications, and privacy concerns of monitoring home appliance energy usage have been the focus of recent adverse publicity. Unfavorable publicity and consumer opposition may cause utilities or their regulators to delay or modify planned smart grid initiatives. Smart grid projects may be, or may be perceived as, unsuccessful.. Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, materials, deployment, and/or use. If any of our products contain a defect, a compatibility or interoperability issue, or other types of errors, we may have to devote significant time and resources to identify and correct the issue. We provide product warranties for varying lengths of time and establish allowances in anticipation of warranty expenses. In addition, we recognize contingent liabilities for additional product-failure related costs. These warranty and related product-failure allowances may be inadequate due to product defects and unanticipated component failures, as well as higher than anticipated material, labor, and other costs we may incur to replace projected product failures. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive; damage our reputation and relationships with utilities, meter and communication vendors, and other third-party vendors; result in the loss of business to competitors; or result in litigation. We may incur additional warranty expenses in the future with respect to new or established products, which could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial position.. 9. Table of Contents. We may be subject to claims that there are adverse health effects from the radio frequencies utilized in connection with our products. If these claims prevail, our customers could suspend implementation or purchase substitute products, which could cause a loss of sales.. Changes in tax laws, valuation allowances, and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability.. We are subject to income tax in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves may be established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve positions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as valuation allowances when we determine it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset cannot be realized. In addition, future changes in tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material impact on our effective income tax rate and profitability. We regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision, which is subject to significant judgment.. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development guidance under the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) initiatives aim to minimize perceived tax abuses and modernize global tax policy. More countries are beginning to implement legislative changes based on these BEPS recommendations.. On December 22, 2017, the United States enacted comprehensive tax reform commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act). The Tax Act makes significant changes to the way the U.S. taxes corporations. Although we are currently evaluating the impact of the Tax Act on our business, significant uncertainty exists with respect to how the Tax Act will affect our business. Some of this uncertainty will not be resolved until clarifying Treasury regulations are promulgated or other relevant authoritative guidance is published. These include modifying the rules regarding limitations on certain deductions for executive compensation, introducing a capital investment deduction in certain circumstances, placing certain limitations on the interest deduction, modifying the rules regarding the usability of certain net operating losses, implementing a minimum tax on the global intangible low-taxed income of a \"United States shareholder\" of a \"controlled foreign corporation,\" modifying certain rules applicable to United States shareholders of controlled foreign corporations, imposing a deemed repatriation tax on certain earnings and adding certain anti-base erosion rules. It is possible that the application of these new rules may have a material and adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows, and related financial statement disclosures.. Disruption and turmoil in global credit and financial markets, which may be exacerbated by the inability of certain countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations, and the possible unfavorable implications of such events for the global economy, may unfavorably impact our business, liquidity, operating results, and financial condition.. The current economic conditions, including volatility in the availability of credit and foreign exchange rates and extended economic slowdowns, have contributed to the instability in some global credit and financial markets. Additionally, at-risk financial institutions in certain countries may, without forewarning, seize a portion of depositors' account balances. The seized funds would be used to recapitalize the at-risk financial institution and would no longer be available for the depositors' use. If such seizure were to occur at financial institutions where we have funds on deposit, it could have a significant impact on our overall liquidity. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it is possible that such events may have an unfavorable impact on the global economy and our business, liquidity, operating results, and financial condition.. We are subject to international business uncertainties, obstacles to the repatriation of earnings, and foreign currency fluctuations.. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from operations conducted outside the United States. International sales and operations may be subjected to risks such as the imposition of government controls, government expropriation of facilities, lack of a well-established system of laws and enforcement of those laws, access to a legal system free of undue influence or corruption, political instability, terrorist activities, restrictions on the import or export of critical technology, currency exchange rate fluctuations, and adverse tax burdens. Lack of availability of qualified third-party financing, generally longer receivable collection periods than those commonly practiced in the United States, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs, labor disruptions, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, difficulties in imposing and enforcing operational and financial controls at international locations, potential insolvency of international distributors, preference for local vendors, burdens of complying with different permitting standards and a wide variety of foreign laws, and obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash all present additional risk to our international operations. Fluctuations in the value of international currencies may impact our operating results due to the translation to the U.S. dollar as well as our ability to compete in international markets. International expansion and market. 10. Table of Contents. acceptance depend on our ability to modify our technology to take into account such factors as the applicable regulatory and business environment, labor costs, and other economic conditions. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect our products or technologies in the same manner as the laws of the United States. Further, foreign regulations or restrictions, e.g., opposition from unions or works councils, could delay, limit, or disallow significant operating decisions made by our management, including decisions to exit certain businesses, close certain manufacturing locations, or other restructuring actions. There can be no assurance that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may engage in future restructuring activities and incur additional charges in our efforts to improve profitability. We also may not achieve the anticipated savings and benefits from current or any future restructuring projects.. We have implemented multiple restructuring projects to adjust our cost structure, and we may engage in similar restructuring activities in the future. These restructuring activities reduce our available employee talent, assets, and other resources, which could slow product development, impact ability to respond to customers, increase quality issues, temporarily reduce manufacturing efficiencies, and limit our ability to increase production quickly. In addition, delays in implementing restructuring projects, unexpected costs, unfavorable negotiations with works councils, changes in governmental policies, or failure to meet targeted improvements could change the timing or reduce the overall savings realized from the restructuring project.. Business interruptions could adversely affect our business.. Our worldwide operations could be subject to hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics, or other natural or man-made disasters or business interruptions. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our key manufacturing facilities are concentrated, and, in the event of a significant interruption in production at any of our manufacturing facilities, considerable expense, time, and effort could be required to establish alternative production lines to meet contractual obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may encounter strikes or other labor disruptions that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We have significant operations throughout the world. In a number of countries outside the U.S., our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. As the result of various corporate or operational actions, which our management has undertaken or may be made in the future, we could encounter labor disruptions. These disruptions may be subject to local media coverage, which could damage our reputation. Additionally, the disruptions could delay our ability to meet customer orders and could adversely affect our results of operations. Any labor disruptions could also have an impact on our other employees. Employee morale and productivity could suffer, and we may lose valued employees whom we wish to retain.. Asset impairment could result in significant changes that would adversely impact our future operating results.. We have significant inventory, intangible assets, long-lived assets, and goodwill that are susceptible to valuation adjustments as a result of changes in various factors or conditions, which could impact our results of operations or and financial condition. Factors that could trigger an impairment of such assets include the following:. • reduction in the net realizable value of inventory which becomes obsolete or exceeds anticipated demand;. • changes in our organization or management reporting structure, which could result in additional reporting units, requiring greater aggregation or disaggregation in our analysis by reporting unit and potentially alternative methods/assumptions of estimating fair values;. • underperformance relative to projected future operating results;. • changes in the manner or use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business;. • unfavorable industry or economic trends; and. • decline in our stock price for a sustained period or decline in our market capitalization below net book value.. We are subject to a variety of litigation that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. From time to time, we are involved in litigation that arises from our business. In addition, these entities may bring claims against our customers, which, in some instances, could result in an indemnification of the customer. Litigation may also relate to, among other things, product failure or product liability claims, contractual disputes, employment matters, or securities litigation. Litigation can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. We may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that. 11. Table of Contents. could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. While we currently maintain insurance coverage, such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims.. We may face losses associated with alleged unauthorized use of third party intellectual property.. We may be subject to claims or inquiries regarding alleged unauthorized use of a third party's intellectual property. An adverse outcome in any intellectual property litigation or negotiation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license technology or other intellectual property rights from others, require us to comply with injunctions to cease marketing or the use of certain products or brands, or require us to redesign, re-engineer, or rebrand certain products or packaging, any of which could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are required to seek licenses under patents or other intellectual property rights of others, we may not be able to acquire these licenses at acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the cost of responding to an intellectual property infringement claim, in terms of legal fees, expenses, and the diversion of management resources, whether or not the claim is valid, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. If our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to indemnify our customers for any damages they suffer. We generally indemnify our customers with respect to infringement by our products of the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our products.. We are affected by the availability and regulation of radio spectrum and interference with the radio spectrum that we use.. A significant number of our products use radio spectrum, which are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in the United States. The FCC may adopt changes to the rules for our licensed and unlicensed frequency bands that are incompatible with our business. In the past, the FCC has adopted changes to the requirements for equipment using radio spectrum, and it is possible that the FCC or the U.S. Congress will adopt additional changes.. Although radio licenses are generally required for radio stations, Part 15 of the FCC's rules permits certain low-power radio devices (Part 15 devices) to operate on an unlicensed basis. Part 15 devices are designed for use on frequencies used by others. These other users may include licensed users, which have priority over Part 15 users. Part 15 devices cannot cause harmful interference to licensed users and must be designed to accept interference from licensed radio devices. In the United States, our smart metering solutions are typically Part 15 devices that transmit information to (and receive information from, if applicable) handheld, mobile, or fixed network systems pursuant to these rules.. We depend upon sufficient radio spectrum to be allocated by the FCC for our intended uses. As to the licensed frequencies, there is some risk that there may be insufficient available frequencies in some markets to sustain our planned operations. The unlicensed frequencies are available for a wide variety of uses and may not be entitled to protection from interference by other users who operate in accordance with FCC rules. The unlicensed frequencies are also often the subject of proposals to the FCC requesting a change in the rules under which such frequencies may be used. If the unlicensed frequencies become crowded to unacceptable levels, restrictive, or subject to changed rules governing their use, our business could be materially adversely affected.. We have committed, and will continue to commit, significant resources to the development of products that use particular radio frequencies. Action by the FCC could require modifications to our products. The inability to modify our products to meet such requirements, the possible delays in completing such modifications, and the cost of such modifications all could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Outside of the United States, certain of our products require the use of RF and are subject to regulations in those jurisdictions where we have deployed such equipment. In some jurisdictions, radio station licensees are generally required to operate a radio transmitter and such licenses may be granted for a fixed term and must be periodically renewed. In other jurisdictions, the rules permit certain low power devices to operate on an unlicensed basis. Our smart metering solutions typically transmit to (and receive information from, if applicable) handheld, mobile, or fixed network reading devices in license-exempt bands pursuant to rules regulating such use. In Europe, we generally use the 169 megahertz (MHz), 433/4 MHz, and 868 MHz bands. In the rest of the world, we primarily use the 433/4 MHz, 920 MHz and 2.4000-2.4835 gigahertz (GHz) bands, as well as other local license-exempt bands. To the extent we introduce new products designed for use in the United States or another country into a new market, such products may require significant modification or redesign in order to meet frequency requirements and other regulatory specifications. In some countries, limitations on frequency availability or the cost of making necessary modifications may preclude. 12. Table of Contents. us from selling our products in those countries. In addition, new consumer products may create interference with the performance of our products, which could lead to claims against us.. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property.. While we believe that our patents and other intellectual property have significant value, it is uncertain that this intellectual property or any intellectual property acquired or developed by us in the future will provide meaningful competitive advantages. There can be no assurance that our patents or pending applications will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors or that rights granted thereunder will provide meaningful proprietary protection. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To combat infringement or unauthorized use of our intellectual property, we may need to commence litigation, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding a court may decide that a patent or other intellectual property right of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology or other intellectual property right at issue on the grounds that it is non-infringing or the legal requirements for an injunction have not been met. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries that do not protect such rights in the same manner as in the United States.. We have pension benefit obligations, which could have a material impact on our earnings, liabilities, and shareholders' equity and could have significant adverse impacts in future periods.. We sponsor both funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans for our international employees, primarily in Germany, France, Italy, Indonesia, Brazil, and Spain. Our general funding policy for these qualified pension plans is to contribute amounts sufficient to satisfy regulatory funding standards of the respective countries for each plan.. The determination of pension plan expense, benefit obligation, and future contributions depends heavily on market factors such as the discount rate and the actual return on plan assets. We estimate pension plan expense, benefit obligation, and future contributions to these plans using assumptions with respect to these and other items. Changes to those assumptions could have a significant effect on future contributions as well as on our annual pension costs and/or result in a significant change to shareholders' equity.. A number of key personnel are critical to the success of our business.. Our success depends in large part on the efforts of our highly qualified technical and management personnel and highly skilled individuals in all disciplines. The loss of one or more of these employees and the inability to attract and retain qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business. Specifically, uncertainty among Itron's employees about their future roles after the completion of the SSNI Acquisition may impair Itron's ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. In addition, some of SSNI's key employees may consider career changes due to uncertainty about their employment, distracting them from performing their duties to Itron.. If we are unable to protect our information technology infrastructure and network against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, we could be exposed to customer liability and reputational risk.. We rely on various information technology systems to capture, process, store, and report data and interact with customers, vendors, and employees. Despite security steps we have taken to secure all information and transactions, our information technology systems, and those of our third-party providers, may be subject to cyber attacks. Any data breaches could result in misappropriation of data or disruption of operations. In addition, hardware and operating system software and applications that we procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture that could interfere with the operation of the systems. Misuse of internal applications; theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, or other corporate assets; and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could stem from such incidents.. In addition, we have designed products and services that connect to and are part of the \"Internet of Things.\" While we attempt to provide adequate security measures to safeguard our products from cyber attacks, the potential for an attack remains. A successful attack may result in inappropriate access to information or an inability for our products to function properly.. Any such operational disruption and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, unfavorable publicity, or business delays and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 13. Table of Contents. We may not realize the expected benefits from strategic alliances.. We have several strategic alliances with large and complex organizations and other companies with which we work to offer complementary products and services. There can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these strategic alliances. If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and result in shared growth. However, alliances carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must both compete and collaborate with the same company from one market to the next. Should our strategic partnerships fail to perform, we could experience delays in product development or experience other operational difficulties.. We rely on information technology systems.. Our industry requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructures, which may be subject to disruptions arising from events that are beyond our control. We are dependent on information technology systems, including, but not limited to, networks, applications, and outsourced services. We continually enhance and implement new systems and processes throughout our global operations.. We offer managed services and software utilizing several data center facilities located worldwide. Any damage to, or failure of, these systems could result in interruptions in the services we provide to our utility customers. As we continue to add capacity to our existing and future data centers, we may move or transfer data. Despite precautions taken during this process, any delayed or unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of our services to our utility customers. We also sell vending and pre-payment systems with security features that, if compromised, may lead to claims against us.. We are completing a phased upgrade of our primary enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems to allow for greater depth and breadth of functionality worldwide. System conversions are expensive and time consuming undertakings that impact all areas of the Company. While successful implementations of each phase will provide many benefits to us, an unsuccessful or delayed implementation of any particular phase may cost us significant time and resources.. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems due to computer viruses, hacking, acts of terrorism, and other causes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations by harming our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain and production facilities, achieve accuracy in the conversion of electronic data and records, and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. In addition, due to the systemic internal control features within ERP systems, we may experience difficulties that could affect our internal control over financial reporting.. Changes in environmental regulations, violations of such regulations, or future environmental liabilities could cause us to incur significant costs and could adversely affect our operations.. Our business and our facilities are subject to numerous laws, regulations, and ordinances governing, among other things, the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture, disposal, remediation of, and exposure to toxic or other hazardous substances, and certain waste products. Many of these environmental laws and regulations subject current or previous owners or operators of land to liability for the costs of investigation, removal, or remediation of hazardous materials. In addition, these laws and regulations typically impose liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials and regardless of whether the actions that led to the presence were conducted in compliance with the law. In the ordinary course of our business, we use metals, solvents, and similar materials, which are stored on-site. The waste created by the use of these materials is transported off-site on a regular basis by unaffiliated waste haulers. Many environmental laws and regulations require generators of waste to take remedial actions at, or in relation to, the off-site disposal location even if the disposal was conducted in compliance with the law. The requirements of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, and could become more stringent in the future. Failure to comply with current or future environmental regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our production processes, cessation of operations, or other actions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There can be no assurance that a claim, investigation, or liability will not arise with respect to these activities, or that the cost of complying with governmental regulations in the future will not have a material adverse effect on us.. We are exposed to counterparty default risks with our financial institutions and insurance providers.. If one or more of the depository institutions in which we maintain significant cash balances were to fail, our ability to access these funds might be temporarily or permanently limited, and we could face material liquidity problems and financial losses.. 14. Table of Contents. The lenders of our 2018 facility consist of several participating financial institutions. Our revolving line of credit allows us to provide letters of credit in support of our obligations for customer contracts and provides additional liquidity. If our lenders are not able to honor their line of credit commitments due to the loss of a participating financial institution or other circumstance, we would need to seek alternative financing, which may not be under acceptable terms, and therefore could adversely impact our ability to successfully bid on future sales contracts and adversely impact our liquidity and ability to fund some of our internal initiatives or future acquisitions.. Our international sales and operations are subject to complex laws relating to foreign corrupt practices and anti-bribery laws, among many others, and a violation of, or change in, these laws could adversely affect our operations.. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the United States requires United States companies to comply with an extensive legal framework to prevent bribery of foreign officials. The laws are complex and require that we closely monitor local practices of our overseas offices. The United States Department of Justice has recently heightened enforcement of these laws. In addition, other countries continue to implement similar laws that may have extra-territorial effect. In the United Kingdom, where we have operations, the U.K. Bribery Act imposes significant oversight obligations on us and could impact our operations outside of the United Kingdom. The costs for complying with these and similar laws may be significant and could require significant management time and focus. Any violation of these or similar laws, intentional or unintentional, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Changes in accounting principles and guidance could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects.. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and various bodies formed to create and interpret appropriate accounting principles and guidance. A change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a material effect on our reported results, as well as our processes and related controls, and may retroactively affect previously reported results. For example, in May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Topic 606 (ASU 2014-09), to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. We adopted this standard effective January 1, 2018 using the cumulative catch-up transition method, and therefore, will recognize the cumulative effect of initially applying the revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of initial application. While we are finalizing the assessment of the impact of adoption we currently believe the most significant impact relates to our accounting for software and software-related elements, and the increased financial statement disclosures, but are continuing to evaluate the effect that the updated standard will have on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows, and related financial statement disclosures. Depending on the outcome of these evaluations for us and acquisition targets and the potential issuance of further accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations, we may be required to modify our reported results, revenue recognition policies, or business practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, prevent fraud, or maintain investor confidence.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We have devoted significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, Section 404 under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that our auditors attest to the design and operating effectiveness of our controls over financial reporting. Our compliance with the annual internal control report requirement for each fiscal year will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting, data systems, and controls across our operating subsidiaries. Furthermore, an important part of our growth strategy has been, and will likely continue to be, the acquisition of complementary businesses, and we expect these systems and controls to become increasingly complex to the extent that we integrate acquisitions and our business grows. Likewise, the complexity of our transactions, systems, and controls may become more difficult to manage. In addition, new accounting standards may have a significant impact on our financial statements in future periods, requiring new or enhanced controls. We cannot be certain that we will ensure that we design, implement, and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially for acquisition targets that may not have been required to be in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act at the date of acquisition. Our acquisition of SSNI will be subject to this risk as they are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, and have chosen to be exempt from complying with the internal control over financial reporting auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.. Failure to implement new controls or enhancements to controls, difficulties encountered in control implementation or operation, or difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system could result in additional errors, material misstatements, or delays in our financial reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose. 15. Table of Contents. confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an unfavorable effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital.. SSNI had identified a material weakness in their internal control over financial reporting. If this material weakness is not deemed to be remediated or if additional SSNI related material weaknesses are identified in the future, our business, results of operations and investors' confidence in us could be materially affected.. SSNI identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, as reported in their consolidated financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2016, which was not remediated as of their last filed Form 10-Q related to September 30, 2017. Specifically, they determined that the design and operation of controls related to revenue recognition were inadequate. Although SSNI management has implemented a remediation plan to address this material weakness, they provide no assurance that testing of the remediation efforts will conclude they were successful and their controls are effective. If we are required to continue remediation efforts, or if additional SSNI related material weaknesses are identified in the future this could result in financial reporting delays, increased costs, cause investors to lose confidence, require us to divert substantial resources, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We are subject to regulatory compliance.. We are subject to various governmental regulations in all of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our production processes, cessation of operations, or other actions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" may force us to incur additional expenses, may result in damage to our business reputation, and may adversely impact our ability to conduct our business.. In August 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC adopted requirements for companies that use certain minerals and derivative metals (referred to as \"conflict minerals,\" regardless of their actual country of origin) in their products. Some of these metals are commonly used in electronic equipment and devices, including our products. These requirements require companies to investigate, disclose and report whether or not such metals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries and required due diligence efforts. There may be increased costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and related components, and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Further interpretation and implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products."
