[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Before deciding to invest in j2 Global or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock will likely decline and you may lose part or all of your investment.. Risks Related To Our Business. Acquisitions and investments in our business have historically played a significant role in our growth and we anticipate that they will continue to do so.. We must acquire additional or invest in new or current businesses, products, services and technologies that complement or augment our service offerings and customer base in order to sustain our rate of growth. We may not successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment strategies, manage disparate technologies, lines of business, personnel and corporate cultures, realize our business strategy or the expected return on our investment or manage a geographically dispersed company. If we are unable to identify and execute on acquisitions or execute on our investment strategies, our revenues, business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could suffer.. The majority of our revenue within the Digital Media segment is derived from short-term advertising arrangements and a reduction in spending by or loss of current or potential advertisers would cause our revenue and operating results to decline.. In most cases, our agreements with advertisers have a term of one year or less and may be terminated at any time by the advertiser or by us without penalty. Advertising agreements often provide that we receive payment based on \"served\" impressions but the online ad industry has started to shift so that payment will be made based on \"viewable\" impressions, and that change in basis could have a negative effect on available impressions thereby reducing our revenue potential. Accordingly, it is difficult to forecast display revenue accurately. In addition, our expense levels are based in part on expectations of future revenue. Moreover, we believe that advertising on the internet, as in traditional media, fluctuates significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of these factors include budget constraints of our advertisers, cancellations or delays of projects by our advertisers, the cyclical and discretionary nature of advertising spending, general economic, internet-related and media industry conditions, as well as extraordinary events. The state of the global economy and availability of capital has impacted and could further impact the advertising spending patterns of existing and potential advertisers. Any reduction in spending by, or loss of, existing or potential advertisers would negatively impact our revenue and operating results. Further, we may be unable to adjust our expenses and capital expenditures quickly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall.. -. 10. -. If we are unable to develop, commission or acquire compelling content in our Digital Media segment at acceptable prices, our expenses may increase, the number of visitors to our online properties may not grow as anticipated, or may decline, and/or visitors' level of engagement with our websites may decline, any of which could harm our operating results.. Our future success depends in part on the ability of our Digital Media segment to aggregate compelling content and deliver that content through our online properties. We believe that users will increasingly demand high-quality content and services including more video and mobile-specific content. Such content and services may require us to make substantial payments to third parties if we are unable to develop content of our own. Our ability to maintain and build relationships with such third-party providers is critical to our success. In addition, as new methods for accessing the internet become available, including through alternative devices, we may need to enter into amended agreements with existing third-party providers to cover the new devices. We may be unable to monetize the activity on these alternative devices including mobile devices which may supplant current traffic that we monetize. We may be unable to enter into new, or preserve existing, relationships with the third-parties whose content or services we seek to obtain. In addition, as competition for compelling content increases both domestically and internationally, our third-party providers may increase the prices at which they offer their content and services to us and potential providers may not offer their content or services to us at all, or may offer them on terms that are not agreeable to us. An increase in the prices charged to us by third-party providers could harm our operating results and financial condition. Further, many of our content and services licenses with third parties are non-exclusive. Accordingly, other media providers may be able to offer similar or identical content. This increases the importance of our ability to deliver compelling content and personalization of this content for users in order to differentiate our properties from other businesses. If we are unable to develop compelling content of our own, we may be required to engage freelance services or obtain licensed content which may not be at reasonable prices which could harm our operating results.. We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.. We intend to continue to develop new services, enhance existing services and expand our geographic presence through acquisitions of other companies, service lines, technologies and personnel.. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following:. •Difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired businesses;. • Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets may have stronger market positions;. • Diversion of management's attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions; and. • The potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the businesses we acquire.. Acquisitions may also cause us to:. • Use a substantial portion of our cash resources or incur debt;. • Significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition;. • Assume liabilities;. • Issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership;. • Record goodwill and intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges;. • Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; and. • Become subject to intellectual property or other litigation.. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control. We cannot give assurance that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. In addition, our effective tax rate for future periods is uncertain and could be impacted by mergers and acquisitions.. -. 11. -. In our Digital Media business, if we are unable to prove that our advertising and sponsorship solutions provide an attractive return on investment for our customers, our financial results could be harmed.. Our ability to grow revenue from our Digital Media business will be dependent on our ability to demonstrate to marketers that their marketing campaigns with us provide a meaningful return on investment (\"ROI\") relative to offline and other online opportunities. Certain of the marketing campaigns with respect to our Digital Media business are designed such that the revenues received are based entirely upon the ROI delivered for customers. Our Digital Media business has invested significant resources in developing its research, analytics and campaign effectiveness capabilities and expects to continue to do so in the future. Our ability, however, to demonstrate the value of advertising and sponsorship on Digital Media business properties will depend, in part, on the sophistication of the analytics and measurement capabilities, the actions taken by our competitors to enhance their offerings, whether we meet the ROI expectations of our customers and a number of other factors. If we are unable to maintain sophisticated marketing and communications solutions that provide value to our customers or demonstrate our ability to provide value to our customers, our financial results will be harmed.. Our fax services constitute a significant percentage of our revenue.. Currently, fax-to-email revenue constitutes approximately 29% of our consolidated revenues. The success of our business is therefore dependent upon the continued use of fax as a messaging medium and/or our ability to diversify our service offerings and derive more revenue from other services, such as voice, online backup, email, unified messaging solutions and services related to our Digital Media segment. If the demand for online fax-to-email as a messaging medium decreases, and we are unable to replace lost revenues from decreased usage or cancellation of our fax services with a proportional increase in our customer base or with revenues from our other services, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. We believe that one of the attractive features of our eFax® and similar products is that fax signatures are a generally accepted method of executing contracts. There are ongoing efforts by governmental and non-governmental entities to create a universally accepted method for electronically signing documents. Widespread adoption of so-called \"digital signatures\" could reduce demand for our fax services and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. A system failure, security breach or other technological risk could delay or interrupt service to our customers, harm our reputation or subject us to significant liability.. Our operations are dependent on our network being free from interruption by damage from fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, computer viruses, cyber-attacks or any other events beyond our control. Similarly, the operations of our partners and other third parties with which we work are also susceptible to the same risks. There can be no assurance that our existing and planned precautions of backup systems, regular data backups, security protocols and other procedures will be adequate to prevent significant damage, system failure or data loss and the same is true for our partners, vendors and other third parties on which we rely. Also, many of our services are web-based, and the amount of data we store for our users on our servers has been increasing. Despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure, and that of our partners, vendors and other third parties, may be vulnerable to computer viruses, hackers or similar disruptive problems caused by our vendors, partners, other third parties, subscribers, employees or other internet users who attempt to invade public and private data networks. As seen in the industries in which we operate and others, these activities have been, and will continue to be, subject to continually evolving cybersecurity and technological risks. Further, in some cases we do not have in place disaster recovery facilities for certain ancillary services. Moreover, a significant portion of our operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other sensitive data. For example, a significant number of our cloud services customers authorize us to bill their credit or debit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit and debit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us, our partners, vendors, or other third parties, to protect transaction and other confidential data. Any system failure or security breach that causes interruptions or data loss in our operations, our partners, vendors, or other third parties, or in the computer systems of our customers or leads to the misappropriation of our or our customers' confidential information could result in a significant liability to us (including in the form of judicial decisions and/or settlements, regulatory findings and/or forfeitures, and other means), cause considerable harm to us and our reputation (including requiring notification to customers, regulators, and/or the media), cause a loss of confidence in our products and services,  and deter current and potential customers from using our services. Our Board is briefed on cybersecurity risks and we implement cybersecurity risk management under our Board's oversight. We use vendors to assist with cybersecurity risks, but these vendors may not be able to assist us adequately in preparing for or responding to a cybersecurity incident. We maintain insurance related to cybersecurity risks, but this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses from any breaches or other adverse consequences related to a. -. 12. -. cybersecurity-event. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, or cause us to suffer other negative consequences. For example, we may incur remediation costs (such as liability for stolen assets or information, repairs of system damage, and incentives to customers or business partners in an effort to maintain relationships after an attack); increased cybersecurity protection costs (which may include the costs of making organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants); lost revenues resulting from the unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack; litigation and legal risks (including regulatory actions by state and federal governmental authorities and non-U.S. authorities); increased insurance premiums; reputational damage that adversely affects customer or investor confidence; and damage to the company's competitiveness, stock price, and diminished long-term shareholder value.. Political instability and volatility in the economy may adversely affect segments of our customers, which may result in decreased usage and advertising levels, customer acquisition and customer retention rates and, in turn, could lead to a decrease in our revenues or rate of revenue growth.. Certain segments of our customers may be adversely affected by political instability and volatility in the general economy or renewed downturns. To the extent these customers' businesses are adversely affected by political instability or volatility, their usage of our services and/or our customer retention rates could decline. This may result in decreased cloud services subscription and/or usage revenues and decreased advertising, e-commerce or other revenues, which may adversely impact our revenues and profitability.. Users are increasingly using mobile devices to access our content within our Digital Media business segment and if we are unsuccessful in attracting new users to our mobile offerings, and expanding the capabilities of our content and other offerings with respect to our mobile platforms, our net revenues could decline.. Web usage and the consumption of digital content are increasingly shifting to mobile platforms such as smartphones and other connected devices. Visits to our mobile websites and applications have increased but if the percentage of visits to our mobile websites does not continue to grow or we are unable to effectively monetize our mobile content, net revenue will be impacted. In addition, we are less effective at monetizing digital content on our mobile websites and applications compared to our desktop websites. The growth of our business depends in part on our ability to continue to adapt to the mobile environment and to deliver compelling solutions to consumers and retailers through these new mobile marketing channels. In addition, our success on mobile platforms will be dependent on our interoperability with popular mobile operating systems that we do not control, and any changes in such systems that degrade our functionality or give preferential treatment to competitive services could adversely affect usage of our services through mobile devices.. We could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities which may adversely impact our financial results.. We are a U.S. based multinational company subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland, where a number of our subsidiaries are organized. Our provision for income taxes is based on a jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory tax rates and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. As a result, our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. These changes may adversely impact our effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations.. The recently enacted U.S. federal tax legislation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"2017 Tax Act\") may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. The 2017 Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. tax code by, in part but not limited to, reducing the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and imposing a mandatory one-time transition tax on certain un-repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The SEC staff acknowledged the challenges companies face incorporating the effects of tax reform by their financial reporting deadlines and issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, or SAB 118, to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete accounting for certain income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act. As of December 31, 2017, we recorded a provisional income tax charge of $49.2 million for the transition tax on deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income. We also recorded a provisional income tax benefit of $33.3 million for the re-measurement of our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities because of the federal corporate maximum tax rate reduction. The provisional amounts recorded are based on our current interpretation and understanding of the 2017 Tax Act, are judgmental and may change as we receive additional clarification and implementation guidance. We will continue to gather and evaluate the income tax impact of the 2017 Tax Act. Changes to these provisional amounts or any of our other estimates regarding taxes could result in material charges or credits in future reporting periods.. -. 13. -. Additionally, the tax project initiated by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (\"OECD\") on Base Erosion and Profit Sharing (\"BEPS\") and other similar initiatives could adversely affect our worldwide effective tax rate. With the finalization of specific actions contained within the OECD's BEPS study, many OECD countries have acknowledged their intent to implement the actions and update their local tax laws. The extent (if any) to which countries in which we operate adopt and implement these actions could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate, income tax expense, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under audit by the IRS for tax years 2012 through 2014 and the California Franchise Tax Board (\"FTB\") for tax years 2012 and 2013. The FTB, however, has agreed to suspend its audit for 2012 and 2013 pending the outcome of the IRS audit for such tax years. We are also under audit or review by other state and foreign taxing authorities for various periods. Our future income tax returns are likely to become the subject of audits by these or other taxing authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our income tax reserves and expense. If our reserves are not sufficient to cover these contingencies, such inadequacy could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Our growth will depend on our ability to develop, strengthen, and protect our brands, and these efforts may be costly and have varying degrees of success.. Our brand recognition has significantly contributed to the success of our business. Strengthening our current brands and launching competitive new brands will be critical to achieving widespread commercial acceptance of our products and services. This will require our continued focus on active marketing, the costs of which have been increasing and may continue to increase.  In addition, substantial initial investments may be required to launch new brands and expand existing brands to cover new geographic territories and technology fields. Accordingly, we may need to spend increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, advertising, marketing and other efforts to cultivate brand recognition and customer loyalty. In addition, we are supporting an increasing number of brands, each of which requires its own investment of resources. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues and, even if they do, increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred. If we fail to launch, promote, and maintain our brands, or if we incur substantial expenses in doing so, our business could be harmed.. Our brand recognition depends, in part, on our ability to protect our trademark portfolio and establish trademark rights covering new brands and territories. Some regulators and competitors have taken the view that certain of our brands, such as eFax and eVoice, are descriptive or generic when applied to the products and services offered by our Cloud Services segment. Nevertheless, we have obtained U.S. and foreign trademark registrations for our brand names, logos, and other brand identifiers, including, eFax and eVoice. If we are unable to obtain, maintain or protect trademark rights covering our brands across the territories in which they are or may be offered, the value of these brands may be diminished, competitors may be able to dilute, harm, or freeload off our brand recognition and reputation, and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected.. We hold domain names relating to our brands, in the U.S. and internationally. The acquisition and maintenance of domain names are generally regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. The regulation of domain names may change. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain all relevant domain names that relate to our brands. Furthermore, international rules governing the acquisition and maintenance of domain names in foreign jurisdictions are sometimes different from U.S. rules, and we may not be able to obtain all of our domains internationally. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our brands, trademarks or other proprietary rights. In addition, failure to secure or maintain domain names relevant to our brands could adversely affect our reputation and make it more difficult for users to find our websites and services.. Our business, customers and users may be subject to telecommunications and sales taxes.. As a provider of cloud services for business, we do not provide telecommunications services. Thus, we believe that our business and our users (by using our services) are not subject to various telecommunications and utility taxes. However, several state taxing authorities have challenged this belief and have and may continue to audit and assess our business and operations with respect to telecommunications and sales taxes.. In addition, the application of other indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, business tax and gross receipt tax) to e-commerce businesses such as j2 Global and our users is a complex and evolving issue.. -. 14. -. The application of existing, new or future laws could have adverse effects on our business, prospects and operating results. There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the various indirect tax requirements in the numerous markets in which we conduct or will conduct business.. We are currently under audit for indirect taxes in several states and municipalities. We currently have no material financial reserves established with respect to indirect taxes. If a material indirect tax liability associated with prior periods were to be recorded, it could materially affect our financial results for the period in which it is recorded.. Much of our Digital Media e-commerce revenue comes from arrangements in which we are paid by retailers to promote their digital product and service offers on our sites. Certain states have implemented regulations that require retailers to collect and remit sales taxes on sales made to residents of such states if a publisher, such as us, that facilitated that sale is a resident of such state. Paid retailers in our marketplace that do not currently have sales tax nexus in any state that subsequently passes similar regulations and in which we have operations, employees or contractors now or in the future, may significantly alter the manner in which they pay us, cease paying us for sales we facilitate for that retailer in such state, or cease using our marketplace, each of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results.. Increased numbers of credit and debit card declines in our Cloud Services segment could lead to a decrease in our Cloud Services revenues or rate of revenue growth.. A significant number of our paid cloud services subscribers pay for their services through credit and debit cards. Weakness in certain segments of the credit markets and in the U.S. and global economies could result in increased numbers of rejected credit and debit card payments. We believe this could result in increased cloud services customer cancellations and decreased customer signups. Rejected credit or debit card payments, cloud services customer cancellations and decreased customer sign up may adversely impact our revenues and profitability.. If our Cloud Services segment experiences excessive fraudulent activity or cannot meet evolving credit card company merchant standards, we could incur substantial costs and lose the right to accept credit cards for payment and our subscriber base could decrease significantly.. A significant number of our paid cloud services subscribers authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for all service fees charged by us. If people pay for these services with stolen credit cards, we could incur substantial unreimbursed third-party vendor costs. We also incur losses from claims that the customer did not authorize the credit card transaction to purchase our service. If the numbers of unauthorized credit card transactions become excessive, we could be assessed substantial fines for excess chargebacks and could lose the right to accept credit cards for payment. In addition, we are subject to Payment Card Industry (\"PCI\") data security standards, which require periodic audits by independent third parties to assess our compliance. PCI standards are a comprehensive set of requirements for enhancing payment account data security. Failure to comply with the security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines or a restriction on accepting payment cards. Credit card companies may change the standards required to utilize their services from time to time. If we are unable to meet these new standards, we could be unable to accept credit cards. Further, the law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services is currently unsettled and states may enact their own rule with which we may not comply. Substantial losses due to fraud or our inability to accept credit card payments, which could cause our paid cloud services subscriber base to significantly decrease, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and our competitors may have greater resources to commit to growth, superior technologies, cheaper pricing or more effective marketing strategies. Also, we face significant competition for users, advertisers, publishers, developers and distributors.. For information regarding our competition, and the risks arising out of the competitive environment in which we operate, see the section entitled Competition contained in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, some of our competitors include major companies with much greater resources and significantly larger subscriber bases than we have. Some of these competitors offer their services at lower prices than we do. These companies may be able to develop and expand their network infrastructures and capabilities more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we can. There can be no assurance that additional competitors will not enter markets that we are currently serving and plan to serve or that we will be able to compete effectively. Competitive pressures may reduce our revenue, operating profits or both.. Our Digital Media segment faces significant competition from online media companies as well as from social networking sites, mobile application, traditional print and broadcast media, general purpose and search engines and various e-commerce sites.. -. 15. -. Several of our competitors offer an integrated variety of internet products, advertising services, technologies, online services and content. We compete against these and other companies to attract and retain users, advertisers and developers. We also compete with social media and networking sites which are attracting a substantial and increasing share of users and users' online time, and may continue to attract an increasing share of online advertising dollars.. In addition, several competitors offer products and services that directly compete for users with our Digital Media segment offerings. Similarly, the advertising networks operated by our competitors or by other participants in the display marketplace offer services that directly compete with our offerings for advertisers, including advertising exchanges, ad networks, demand side platforms, ad serving technologies and sponsored search offerings. We also compete with traditional print and broadcast media companies to attract advertising spending. Some of our existing competitors and possible entrants may have greater brand recognition for certain products and services, more expertise in a particular segment of the market, and greater operational, strategic, technological, financial, personnel, or other resources than we do. Many of our competitors have access to considerable financial and technical resources with which to compete aggressively, including by funding future growth and expansion and investing in acquisitions, technologies, and research and development. Further, emerging start-ups may be able to innovate and provide new products and services faster than we can. In addition, competitors may consolidate with each other or collaborate, and new competitors may enter the market. Some of the competitors for our Cloud Services segment in international markets have a substantial competitive advantage over us because they have dominant market share in their territories, are owned by local telecommunications providers, have greater brand recognition, are focused on a single market, are more familiar with local tastes and preferences, or have greater regulatory and operational flexibility due to the fact that we may be subject to both U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements.. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing and deploying compelling products or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, publishers, developers, or distributors, our revenue and growth rates could decline.. As a creator and a distributor of content over the internet, we face potential liability for legal claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we create or distribute.. Users access health-related content through our Everyday Health properties, including information regarding particular medical conditions, diagnosis and treatment and possible adverse reactions or side effects from medications. If our content, or content we obtain from third parties, contains inaccuracies, it is possible that consumers who rely on that content or others may make claims against us with various causes of action. Although our properties contain terms and conditions, including disclaimers of liability, that are intended to reduce or eliminate our liability, third parties may claim that these online agreements are unenforceable.. Our editorial and other quality control procedures may not be sufficient to ensure that there are no errors or omissions in our content offerings or to prevent such errors and omissions in content that is controlled by our partners. Even if potential claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against these claims could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management's attention away from our operations.. Inadequate intellectual property protections could prevent us from defending our proprietary technology and intellectual property.. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology and intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, contractual restrictions, and other confidentiality safeguards to protect our proprietary technology. However, these measures may provide only limited protection and it may be costly and time-consuming to enforce compliance with our intellectual property rights. In some circumstances, we may not have adequate, economically feasible or realistic options for enforcing our intellectual property and we may be unable to detect unauthorized use. While we have a robust worldwide portfolio of issued patents and pending patent applications, there can be no assurance that any of these patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, that we will be able to successfully police infringement, or that any rights granted under these patents will in fact provide a competitive advantage to us.. In addition, our ability to register or protect our patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property may be limited in some foreign countries. As a result, we may not be able to effectively prevent competitors in these regions from utilizing our intellectual property, which could reduce our competitive advantage and ability to compete in those regions and negatively impact our business.. We also strive to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions. We typically enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to, and disclosure. -. 16. -. and use of, our proprietary information. However, we may not be successful in executing these agreements with every party who has access to our confidential information or contributes to the development of our technology or intellectual property rights. Those agreements that we do execute may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. These contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not prevent the misappropriation or disclosure of our proprietary information nor deter independent development of similar technology or intellectual property by others.. Monitoring unauthorized use of the content on our websites and mobile applications, and our other intellectual property and technology, is difficult and costly. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property may not have been and may not be adequate to prevent their misappropriation or misuse. Third parties from time to time copy content or other intellectual property or technology from our solutions without authorization and seek to use it for their own benefit. We generally seek to address such unauthorized copying or use, but we have not always been successful in stopping all unauthorized use of our content or other intellectual property or technology, and may not be successful in doing so in the future. Further, we may not have been and may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our technology or intellectual property, or to take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights.. Companies that operate in the same industry as our Cloud Services and Digital Media segments have experienced substantial litigation regarding intellectual property. Currently, we have pending patent infringement lawsuits, both offensive and defensive, against several companies in this industry. Furthermore, we may find it necessary or appropriate to initiate claims or litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of intellectual property rights claimed by others. This or any other litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights may be expensive and time-consuming, could divert management resources and may not be adequate to protect our business.. We may be found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, which could expose us to substantial damages or restrict our operations.. We have been and expect to continue to be subject to legal claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. The ready availability of damages and royalties and the potential for injunctive relief have increased the costs associated with litigating and settling patent infringement claims. In addition, we may be required to indemnify our resellers and users for similar claims made against them. Any claims, whether or not meritorious, could require us to spend significant time, money, and other resources in litigation, pay damages and royalties, develop new intellectual property, modify, design around, or discontinue existing products, services, or features, or acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of the infringement claims. These licenses, if required, may not be available at all or have acceptable terms. As a result, intellectual property claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We may be subject to risks from international operations.. As we continue to expand our business operations in countries outside the U.S., our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, foreign currency exchange rates; political or social unrest or economic instability in a specific country or region; trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements which may affect our ability to provide our services; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries and affiliates. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our future business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We have only limited experience in marketing and operating our services in certain international markets. Moreover, we have in some cases experienced and expect to continue to experience in some cases higher costs as a percentage of revenues in connection with establishing and providing services in international markets versus the U.S. In addition, certain international markets may be slower than the U.S. in adopting the internet and/or outsourced messaging and communications solutions and so our operations in international markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investments.. -. 17. -. As we continue to grow our international operations, adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could have a material adverse effect on our balance sheet and results of operations.. As we expand our international operations, we could be exposed to significant risks of currency fluctuations. In some countries outside the U.S., we offer our services in the applicable local currency, including but not limited to the Australian Dollar, the Canadian Dollar, the Euro, the Hong Kong Dollar, the Japanese Yen, the New Zealand Dollar, the Norwegian Kroner and the British Pound Sterling, among others. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect the results of our operations, which in turn may materially adversely affect reported earnings and the comparability of period to period results of operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and foreign competitors sell our services in the same market. In addition, changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations, which might restrict or prohibit our conversion of other currencies into U.S. Dollars. We cannot assure you that future exchange rate movements will not have a material adverse effect on our future business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. To date, we have not entered into foreign currency hedging transactions to control or minimize these risks.. We may be engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could divert significant operational resources and our management's time and attention.. From time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims or are involved in other legal disputes or regulatory inquiries, including in the areas of patent infringement and anti-trust, that could negatively affect our business operations and financial condition. Such disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, divert operational resources, occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention and negatively affect our business operations and financial condition. The outcomes of such matters are subject to inherent uncertainties, carrying the potential for unfavorable rulings that could include monetary damages and injunctive relief.  We do not always have insurance coverage for defense costs, judgments, and settlements. We may also be subject to indemnification requirements with business partners, vendors, current and former officers and directors, and other third parties. Payments under such indemnification provisions may be material. For a more detailed description of certain lawsuits in which we are involved, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings.. The successful operation of our business depends upon the supply of critical business elements and marketing relationships from other companies.. We depend upon third parties for critical elements of our business, including technology, infrastructure, customer service and sales and marketing components. We rely on private third-party providers for our internet, telecommunications, website traffic and other connections and for co-location of a significant portion of our servers. Any disruption in the services provided by any of these suppliers, any adverse change in their terms and conditions of use or services, or any failure by them to handle current or higher volumes of activity could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. To obtain new cloud services customers, we have marketing agreements with operators of leading search engines and websites and employ the use of resellers to sell our products. These arrangements typically are not exclusive and do not extend over a significant period of time. Failure to continue these relationships on terms that are acceptable to us or to continue to create additional relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Our business is highly dependent on our billing systems.. A significant part of our revenues depends on prompt and accurate billing processes. Customer billing is a highly complex process, and our billing systems must efficiently interface with third-party systems, such as those of credit card processing companies. Our ability to accurately and efficiently bill our customers is dependent on the successful operation of our billing systems and the third-party systems upon which we rely, such as our credit card processor, and our ability to provide these third parties the information required to process transactions. In addition, our ability to offer new services or alternative-billing plans is dependent on our ability to customize our billing systems. Any failures or errors in our billing systems or procedures could impair our ability to properly bill our current customers or attract and service new customers, and thereby could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our success depends on our retention of our executive officers, senior management and our ability to hire and retain key personnel.. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of executive officers, senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers, senior managers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our future success also. -. 18. -. depends on our continuing ability to attract, integrate and retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. Competition for these people is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key employees or that we can attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel in the future.. We are exposed to risk if we cannot maintain or adhere to our internal controls and procedures.. We have established and continue to maintain, assess and update our internal controls and procedures regarding our business operations and financial reporting. Our internal controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurances regarding our business operations and financial reporting. However, because of the inherent limitations in this process, internal controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or misstatements. To the extent our internal controls are inadequate or not adhered to by our employees, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. If we are not able to maintain internal controls and procedures in a timely manner, or without adequate compliance, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or NASDAQ. Any such action or restatement of prior-period financial results as a result could harm our business or investors' confidence in j2 Global, and could cause our stock price to fall.. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial flexibility and our competitive position.. Our level of indebtedness could have significant effects on our business. For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, including our current indebtedness and any other indebtedness we may incur in the future;. • increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other elements of our business strategy and other general corporate purposes, including share repurchases and payment of dividends;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate;. restrict us from exploiting business opportunities;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes.. In addition, the indenture governing the 6.0% Senior Notes of our subsidiary, j2 Cloud Services, LLC (\"j2 Cloud Services\") contains and the agreements evidencing or governing other future indebtedness may contain, restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness.. The indenture governing the 6.0% Senior Notes contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions and may limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or make acquisitions, or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. These include restrictions on our ability to:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • create liens;. • engage in sale-leaseback transactions;. • pay dividends or make distributions in respect of capital stock;. • purchase or redeem capital stock;. • make investments or certain other restricted payments;. • sell assets;. • enter into transactions with affiliates; or. • effect a consolidation or merger.. A breach of the covenants under the indenture governing the 6.0% Senior Notes could result in an event of default. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In the event our lenders or the holders of our 6.0% Senior Notes accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness or our other indebtedness.. -. 19. -. To service our debt and fund our other capital requirements, we will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash will depend on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other elements of our business strategy and other general corporate purposes, including share repurchases and payment of dividends, will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations. To some extent, this is subject to general and regional economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot ensure that we will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional indebtedness or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The indenture governing the 6.0% Senior Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and may also restrict our ability to raise indebtedness or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due.. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the Convertible Notes or to repurchase the Convertible Notes upon a fundamental change or on a repurchase date or the Senior Notes upon a change in control, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the Convertible Notes or the Senior Notes.. Holders of the 3.25% convertible senior notes due June 15, 2029 (the \"Convertible Notes\") will have the right to require us to repurchase their Convertible Notes on each of June 15, 2021 and June 15, 2024 and upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes), in each case, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Holders of the Senior Notes also have the right to require our subsidiary, j2 Cloud Services, to repurchase the Senior Notes upon the occurrence of a change in control (as defined in the indenture governing the Senior Notes) at a repurchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Convertible Notes being converted. It is our intention to satisfy our conversion obligation by paying and delivering a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, where cash will be used to settle each $1,000 of principal and the remainder, if any, will be settled via shares of our common stock. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Convertible Notes or Senior Notes surrendered therefor or Convertible Notes being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Convertible Notes or Senior Notes or to pay cash upon conversions of the Convertible Notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase Convertible Notes or Senior Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the applicable indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the Convertible Notes as required by the Convertible Notes indenture would constitute a default under the Convertible Notes indenture. A default under either indenture or the fundamental change or change of control itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Convertible Notes or the Senior Notes or make cash payments upon conversions of the Convertible Notes.. -. 20. -. The conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes is triggered, holders of Convertible Notes will be entitled to convert the Convertible Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Convertible Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. Our interest deductions attributable to the Convertible Notes may be deferred, limited or eliminated under certain conditions.. We believe that the Convertible Notes are subject to the IRS contingent payment debt instrument regulations. This conclusion is subject to complex factual and legal uncertainty and is not binding on the IRS or the courts. If the IRS takes a contrary position and a court sustains the IRS' position, our tax deductions would be severely diminished with a resulting adverse effect on our cash flow and ability to service the Convertible Notes.. Risks Related To Our Industries. Our services may become subject to burdensome regulation, which could increase our costs or restrict our service offerings.. We believe that our cloud services are \"information services\" under the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and related precedent, or, if not \"information services,\" that we are entitled to other exemptions, meaning that we are not currently subject to U.S. telecommunications services regulation at both the federal and state levels. In connection with our cloud services business, we utilize data transmissions over public telephone lines and other facilities provided by third-party carriers. These transmissions are subject to foreign and domestic laws and regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (the \"FCC\"), state public utility commissions and foreign governmental authorities. These regulations affect the availability of numbers, the prices we pay for transmission services, the administrative costs associated with providing our services, the competition we face from telecommunications service providers and other aspects of our market. However, as messaging and communications services converge and as the services we offer expand, we may become subject to FCC or other regulatory agency regulation. It is also possible that a federal or state regulatory agency could take the position that our offerings, or a subset of our offerings, are properly classified as telecommunications services or otherwise not entitled to certain exemptions upon which we currently rely. Such a finding could potentially subject us to fines, penalties or enforcement actions as well as liabilities for past regulatory fees and charges, retroactive contributions to various telecommunications-related funds, telecommunications-related taxes, penalties and interest. It is also possible that such a finding could subject us to additional regulatory obligations that could potentially require us either to modify our offerings in a costly manner, diminish our ability to retain customers, or discontinue certain offerings, in order to comply with certain regulations. Changes in the regulatory environment could decrease our revenues, increase our costs and restrict our service offerings. In many of our international locations, we are subject to regulation by the applicable governmental authority.. In the U.S., Congress, the FCC, and a number of states require regulated telecommunications carriers to contribute to federal and/or state Universal Service Funds (\"USF\"). Generally, USF is used to subsidize the cost of providing service to low-income customers and those living in high cost or rural areas. Congress, the FCC and a number of states are reviewing the manner in which a provider's contribution obligation is calculated, as well as the types of entities subject to USF contribution obligations. If any of these reforms are adopted, they could cause us to alter or eliminate our non-paid services and to raise the price of our paid services, which could cause us to lose customers. Any of these results could lead to a decrease in our revenues and net income and could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. The Telephone Consumer Protection Act (the \"TCPA\") and FCC rules implementing the TCPA, as amended by the Junk Fax Act, prohibit sending unsolicited facsimile advertisements to telephone fax machines. The FCC, the Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\"), or both may initiate enforcement action against companies that send \"junk faxes\" and individuals also may have a private cause of action. Although entities that merely transmit facsimile messages on behalf of others are not liable for compliance with the prohibition on faxing unsolicited advertisements, the exemption from liability does not apply to fax transmitters that have a high degree of involvement or actual notice of an illegal use and have failed to take steps to prevent such transmissions. We take significant steps to ensure that our services are not used to send unsolicited faxes on a large scale, and we do not believe that we have a high degree of involvement in or notice of the use of our service to broadcast junk faxes. However, because fax transmitters. -. 21. -. do not enjoy an absolute exemption from liability under the TCPA and related FCC and FTC rules, we could face inquiries from the FCC and FTC or enforcement actions by these agencies, or private causes of action, if someone uses our service for such impermissible purposes. If this were to occur and we were to be held liable for someone's use of our service for transmitting unsolicited faxes, the financial penalties could cause a material adverse effect on our operations  and harm our business reputation.. Likewise, the TCPA also prohibits placing calls or sending text messages to mobile phones without \"prior express consent\" subject to limited exceptions. Parties that solely enable calling or text messaging are only directly liable under the TCPA pursuant to federal common law vicarious liability principles. We take significant steps to ensure that users understand that they are responsible for how they use our technology including complying with relevant federal and state law. However, because we do not enjoy absolute exemption from liability under the TCPA and related FCC and FTC rules, we could face inquiries from the FCC and FTC or enforcement actions by these agencies, or private causes of action, if someone uses our service for such impermissible purposes. If this were to occur and we were to be held liable for someone's use of our service for unauthorized calling or text messaging mobile users, the financial penalties could cause a material adverse effect on our operations and harm our business reputation.. Also, in the U.S., the Communications Assistance to Law Enforcement Act (\"CALEA\") requires telecommunications carriers to be capable of performing wiretaps and recording other call identifying information. In September 2005, the FCC released an order defining telecommunications carriers that are subject to CALEA obligations as facilities-based broadband internet access providers and Voice-over-Internet-Protocol (\"VoIP\") providers that interconnect with the public switched telephone network. As a result of this definition, we do not believe that j2 Global is subject to CALEA. However, if the category of service providers to which CALEA applies broadens to also include information services, that change may impact our operations.. We are subject to a variety of new and existing laws and regulations which could subject us to claims, judgments, monetary liabilities and other remedies, and to limitations on our business practices.. The application of existing domestic and international laws and regulations to us relating to issues such as defamation, pricing, advertising, taxation, promotions, billing, consumer protection, accessibility, content regulation, and intellectual property ownership and infringement in many instances is unclear or unsettled. In addition, we will also be subject to any new laws and regulations directly applicable to our domestic and international activities. Further, the application of existing laws to us or our subsidiaries regulating or requiring licenses for certain businesses of our advertisers including, for example, distribution of pharmaceuticals, alcohol, adult content, tobacco, or firearms, as well as insurance and securities brokerage, and legal services, can be unclear. Internationally, we may also be subject to laws regulating our activities in foreign countries and to foreign laws and regulations that are inconsistent from country to country. Our Digital Media segment utilizes contractors, freelancers and staff from third party outsourcers to provide content and other services. However, in the future, arrangements with such individuals may not be deemed appropriate by the relevant government authority, which could result in additional costs and expenses. We may incur substantial liabilities for expenses necessary to defend such litigation or to comply with these laws and regulations, as well as potential substantial penalties for any failure to comply. Compliance with these laws and regulations may also cause us to change or limit our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. The use of consumer data by online service providers and advertising networks is a topic of active interest among federal, state, and international regulatory bodies, and the regulatory environment is unsettled and evolving. Federal, state, and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, disclosure, sharing and security of data that we receive from and about our users. Our privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use, and disclosure of user data are posted on our websites.. A number of U.S. federal laws, including those referenced below, impact our business. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (\"DMCA\") is intended, in part, to limit the liability of eligible online service providers for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights of others. Portions of the Communications Decency Act (\"CDA\") are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third-party content. We rely on the protections provided by both the DMCA and the CDA in conducting our business. If these or other laws or judicial interpretations are changed to narrow their protections, or if international jurisdictions refuse to apply similar provisions in foreign lawsuits, we will be subject to greater risk of liability, our costs of compliance with these regulations or to defend litigation may increase, or our ability to operate certain lines of business may be limited. The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act is intended to impose restrictions on the ability of online services to collect some types of information from children under the age of 13. In addition, Providing Resources, Officers, and Technology to Eradicate Cyber Threats to Our Children Act of 2008 (\"PROTECT Act\") requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. Other federal, state or international laws and legislative efforts designed to protect children on the internet may impose additional requirements on us. U.S. export control laws and regulations impose requirements and restrictions on exports to certain nations and persons and on our business.. -. 22. -. In certain instances, we may be subject to enhanced privacy obligations based on the type of information we store and process. While we believe we are in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, fines, forfeitures and other adverse actions.. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (the \"CAN-SPAM Act\"), which allows for penalties that run into the millions of dollars, requires commercial emails to include identifying information from the sender and a mechanism for the receiver to opt out of receiving future emails. Several states have enacted additional, more restrictive and punitive laws regulating commercial email. Foreign legislation exists as well, including Canada's Anti-Spam Legislation (\"CASL\") and the European laws that have been enacted pursuant to European Union Directive 2002/58/EC and its amendments. We use email as a significant means of communicating with our existing and potential users. We believe that our email practices comply with the requirements of the CAN-SPAM Act, state laws, and applicable foreign legislation. If we were ever found to be in violation of these laws and regulations, or any other laws or regulations, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Many third parties are examining whether the Americans with Disabilities Act (\"ADA\") concept of public accommodations also extends to the websites and to mobile applications. The Company is assessing the requirements of the ADA to determine what impact this could have on our websites. Generally, some plaintiffs have argued that websites and mobile applications are places of public accommodation under Title III of the ADA and, as such, must be equipped so that individuals with disabilities can navigate and make use of subject websites and mobile applications. The issue is currently under litigation and there is a split in the federal court of appeals circuits as to what the ADA requires. Certain appellate circuits have found that websites standing alone are subject to the ADA and therefore must be accessible to people with disabilities. Other circuits, including the Ninth Circuit which has appellate jurisdiction over federal district courts in California, where our company is headquartered, have found that in order for websites to be places of public accommodation and therefore subject to the ADA there must be both a nexus between the website and the goods and services the website provides as well as a physical brick and mortar location for consumers. We cannot predict how the ADA will ultimately be interpreted as applied to websites and mobile applications.. Since we do not have a retail location, we believe we are in compliance with relevant law. If the law changes or if certain courts with appellate jurisdiction outside of California attempt to exercise jurisdiction over us and find that our website and mobile applications must comply with the ADA, then any adjustments or requirements to implement any changes prescribed by the ADA could result in increased costs to our business, we may be subject to injunctive relief, plaintiffs may be able to recover attorneys' fees, and it is possible that, while the ADA does not provide for monetary damages, we are subject to such damages through state consumer protection or other laws. It is possible that these potential liabilities could cause a material adverse effect on our operations and harm our business reputation.. Native advertising is an increasing part of our Digital Media segment's online advertising revenue. On December 22, 2015 the FTC issued Guidelines and an Enforcement Policy Statement on native advertising, described by the FTC as, in part, ads which often \"resemble the design, style, and functionality of the media in which they are disseminated\". The Company, as well as trade groups and our consultants, are assessing the requirements of these guidelines on our current practices and industry practices and what, if any, effect this could have on our native advertising business. In addition, the timing and extent of any enforcement by the FTC with regard to the native advertising practices by the Company, or others, could reduce the revenue we generate from this line of business.. For certain data transfers between the European Union (\"EU\") and the U.S., j2 Global, like many other companies, had relied on what is referred to as the \"EU-U.S. Safe Harbor,\" in order to comply with privacy obligations imposed by EU countries.  Recently, the European Court of Justice invalidated the EU-U.S. Safe Harbor. Subsequently, a group comprised of the majority of EU data protection regulators issued a statement that it would further consider the decision issued by the European Court of Justice and coordinate any potential enforcement actions after January 31, 2016.  But some individual data protection regulators located in EU countries have threatened to begin enforcement actions independently of this larger representative group of such entities. Although U.S. and EU policymakers approved a new framework known as \"Privacy Shield\" that would allow companies like us to continue to rely on some form of a safe harbor for the transfer of certain data from the EU to the U.S., it remains to be seen if this new safe harbor meets the standards of the European laws on data privacy. It is also unclear whether the UK will offer a similar program to Privacy Shield when the UK leaves the EU. Additionally, other countries that relied on the EU-U.S. Safe Harbor that were not part of the EU have also found that data transfers to the U.S. are no longer valid based on the European Court of Justice ruling. We cannot predict how or if this issue will be resolved nor can we evaluate any potential liability at this time.. The Company is working to put into place various alternative grounds on which to rely in order to be in compliance with relevant law for the transfer of data from overseas locations to the U.S. which have not been invalidated by the European Court of Justice. Some independent data regulators have adopted the position that other forms of compliance are also invalid though the. -. 23. -. legal grounds for these findings remain unclear at this time. We cannot predict at this time whether the alternative grounds that j2 Global continues to implement will be found to be consistent with relevant laws nor what any potential liability may be at this time.. Further, failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our policies, applicable requirements, or industry self-regulatory principles related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information, or other privacy, data-retention or data-protection matters could result in a loss of user confidence in us, damage to our brands, and ultimately in a loss of users and advertising partners, which could adversely affect our business. Changes in these or any other laws and regulations or the interpretation of them could increase our future compliance costs, make our products and services less attractive to our users, or cause us to change or limit our business practices. Further, any failure on our part to comply with any relevant laws or regulations may subject us to significant civil or criminal liabilities.. Government and private actions or self-regulatory developments regarding internet privacy matters could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business.. Our Digital Media business collects and sells data about its users' online behavior and the revenue associated with this activity could be impacted by government regulation and enforcement, industry trends, self-regulation, technology changes, consumer behavior and attitude, and private action. We also use such information to work with our advertisers to more effectively target ads to relevant users and consumers, which ads command a higher rate.. Many of our users voluntarily provide us with demographic and other information when they register for one of our service or properties.  In order for our Everyday Health brand to deliver marketing and communications solutions to pharmaceutical companies, health insurers and hospital systems, we rely on data provided by our customers. We also purchase data from third-party sources to augment our user profiles and marketing databases so we are better able to personalize content, enhance our analytical capabilities and better target our marketing programs. If changes in user sentiment regarding the sharing of information results in a significant number of visitors to our websites and applications refusing to provide us with demographic information or information about their specific health interests, our ability to personalize content for our users and provide targeted marketing solutions would be impaired. If our users choose to opt-out of having their data used for behavioral targeting, it would be more difficult for us to offer targeted marketing programs to our customers.. We append data from third-party sources to augment our user profiles. If we are unable to acquire data from third-party sources for whatever reason, or if there is a marked increase in the cost of obtaining such data, our ability to personalize content and provide marketing solutions could be negatively impacted.. The use of such consumer data by online service providers and advertising networks is a topic of active interest among federal, state, and international regulatory bodies, and the regulatory environment is unsettled. Federal, state, and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, disclosure, sharing and security of data that we receive from and about our users. Our privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use, and disclosure of user data are posted on our websites.. New and expanding \"Do Not Track\" regulations have recently been enacted or proposed that protect users' right to choose whether or not to be tracked online. These regulations seek, among other things, to allow consumers to have greater control over the use of private information collected online, to forbid the collection or use of online information, to demand a business to comply with their choice to opt out of such collection or use, and to place limits upon the disclosure of information to third party websites. These laws and regulations could have a significant impact on the operation of our advertising and data businesses. U.S. regulatory agencies have also placed an increased focus on online privacy matters and, in particular, on online advertising activities that utilizes cookies or other tracking tools. Consumer and industry groups have expressed concerns about online data collection and use by companies, which has resulted in the release of various industry self-regulatory codes of conduct and best practice guidelines that are binding for member companies and that govern, among other things, the ways in which companies can collect, use and disclose user information, how companies must give notice of these practices and what choices companies must provide to consumers regarding these practices.. We may be required or otherwise choose to adopt Do Not Track mechanisms or self-regulation principles, in which case our ability to use our existing tracking technologies, to collect and sell user behavioral data, and permit their use by other third parties could be impaired. This could cause our net revenues to decline and adversely affect our operating results.. U.S. and foreign governments have enacted or considered or are considering legislation or regulations that could significantly restrict our ability to collect, augment, analyze, use and share anonymous data, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenue.. -. 24. -. We operate across many different jurisdictions both domestically and internationally which may subject us to cybersecurity, privacy, data security and data protection laws with uncertain interpretations as well as impose conflicting obligations on us.. Cybersecurity, privacy, data security, and data protection laws are constantly evolving at the federal and state levels in the United States, as well as abroad. We are currently subject to such laws both at the federal and state levels in the U.S. as well as similar laws in a variety of international jurisdictions. The interpretation of these laws may be uncertain and may also impose confliction obligations on us. While we work to comply with all applicable law and relevant \"best practices\" addressing cybersecurity, privacy, data security and data protection, this is an area of the law that is constantly evolving as are the relevant industry codes and threat matrix. Further it is possible that applicable law and \"best practices\" are interpreted in an inconsistent or conflicting manner either by differing federal, state or international authorities or across the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any failure or perceived failure by us, our partners, our vendors, or third parties on which we rely could result in a significant liability to us (including in the form of judicial decisions and/or settlements, regulatory findings and/or forfeitures, and other means), cause considerable harm to us and our reputation (including requiring notification to customers, regulators, and/or the media), cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, and deter current and potential customers from using our services. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. The EU's General Data Protection Regulation will impose significant compliance costs and expose the Company to substantial risks.. The EU has traditionally imposed more strict obligations under data privacy laws and regulations. Individual EU member countries have had discretion with respect to their interpretation and implementation of EU data privacy laws, resulting in variation of privacy standards from country to country. However, the 1995 Data Protection Directive will be replaced when the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") that was adopted in April 2016 comes into effect in May 2018. The GDPR harmonizes EU data privacy laws and contains significant obligations and requirements that will result in a greater compliance burden with respect to our operations and data use in Europe, which will increase our costs. Additionally, government authorities will have more power to enforce compliance and impose substantial penalties for any failure to comply. In addition, individuals have the right to compensation under GDPR. In the event the Company is not in compliance by the implementation date, or fails to maintain compliance thereafter, the Company would be exposed to material damages, costs and/or fines if an EU government authority or EU resident commenced an action. Failure to comply or maintain compliance could cause considerable harm to us and our reputation (including requiring notification to customers, regulators, and/or the media), cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, and deter current and potential customers from using our services.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We face potential liability related to the privacy and security of health-related information we collect from, or on behalf of, our consumers and customers.. The privacy and security of information about the physical or mental health or condition of an individual is an area of significant focus in the U.S. because of heightened privacy concerns and the potential for significant consumer harm from the misuse of such sensitive data. We have procedures and technology in place intended to safeguard the information we receive from customers and users of our services from unauthorized access or use.. The Privacy Standards and Security Standards under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (\"HIPAA\") establish a set of basic national privacy and security standards for the protection of individually identifiable health information by health plans, healthcare clearinghouses and certain healthcare providers, referred to as \"covered entities\", and the business associates with whom such covered entities contract for services. Notably, whereas HIPAA previously directly regulated only these covered entities, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (\"HITECH\") makes certain of HIPAA's Privacy and Security Standards directly applicable to covered entities' business associates. As a result, business associates are now subject to significant civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with applicable Privacy and Security Standards. Additionally, certain states have adopted comparable privacy and security laws and regulations, some of which may be more stringent than HIPAA.. HIPAA directly applies to covered entities such as hospital clients of certain of our subsidiaries. Since these clients disclose protected health information to our subsidiaries so that those subsidiaries can provide certain services to them, those subsidiaries are business associates of those clients. In addition, we may sign business associate agreements in connection with the provision of the products and services developed for other third parties or in connection with certain of our other services that may transmit or store protected health information.. -. 25. -. Failure to comply with the requirements of HIPAA or HITECH or any of the applicable federal and state laws regarding patient privacy, identity theft prevention and detection, breach notification and data security may subject us to penalties, including civil monetary penalties and, in some circumstances, criminal penalties or contractual liability under agreements with our customers and clients. Any failure or perception of failure of our products or services to meet HIPAA, HITECH and related regulatory requirements could expose us to risks of investigation, notification, litigation, penalty or enforcement, adversely affect demand for our products and services and force us to expend significant capital and other resources to modify our products or services to address the privacy and security requirements of our clients and HIPAA and HITECH.. Developments in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business.. A significant portion of Everyday Health's advertising and sponsorship revenues is derived from the healthcare industry, including pharmaceutical, over-the-counter and consumer-packaged-goods companies, and could be affected by changes affecting healthcare spending. Industry changes affecting healthcare spending could impact the market for these offerings. General reductions in expenditures by healthcare industry participants could result from, among other things:. • government regulation or private initiatives that affect the manner in which healthcare industry participants interact with consumers and the general public;. • consolidation of healthcare industry participants;. • reductions in governmental funding for healthcare; and. • adverse changes in business or economic conditions affecting pharmaceutical companies or other healthcare industry participants.. Even if general expenditures by industry participants remain the same or increase, developments in the healthcare industry may result in reduced spending in some or all of the specific market segments that we serve now or in the future. For example, use of our content offerings and the sale of our products and services could be affected by:. • changes in the design and provision of health insurance plans;. • a decrease in the number of new drugs or pharmaceutical products coming to market; and. • decreases in marketing expenditures by pharmaceutical companies as a result of governmental regulation or private initiatives that discourage or prohibit advertising or sponsorship activities by pharmaceutical companies.. The healthcare industry has changed significantly in recent years, and we expect that significant changes to the healthcare industry will continue to occur. However, the timing and impact of developments in the healthcare industry are difficult to predict. We cannot assure you that the demand for our offerings will continue to exist at current levels or that we will have adequate technical, financial and marketing resources to react to changes in the healthcare industry.. Government regulation of healthcare creates risks and challenges with respect to our compliance efforts and our business strategies with our Everyday Health brand.. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences. Existing and future laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could create unexpected liabilities for us, cause us to incur additional costs and restrict our operations. Many healthcare laws are complex, and their application may not be clear. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations, or other failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could create liability for us. Even in areas where we are not subject to healthcare regulation directly, we may become involved in governmental actions or investigations through our relationships with customers that are regulated, and participation in such actions or investigations, even if we are not a party and not the subject of an investigation, may cause us to incur significant expenses.. For example, there are federal and state laws that govern patient referrals, physician financial relationships and inducements to healthcare providers and patients. The federal healthcare programs' anti-kickback provisions prohibit any person or entity from willingly offering, paying, soliciting or receiving anything of value, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward, or in return for either the referral of patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs or the leasing, purchasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the lease, purchase or order of any item, good, facility or service covered by these programs. Many states also have similar anti-kickback laws that are not necessarily limited to items or services for which payment is made by a federal healthcare program. Our sale of advertising and sponsorships to healthcare providers implicates these laws. However, we review our practices to ensure that we comply with all applicable laws. The laws in this area are broad and we cannot determine precisely how they will be applied to our business practices. Any determination by a state or federal regulatory agency that any of our practices violate any of these laws could subject us to liability and require us to change or terminate some portions of our business.. -. 26. -. Further, we derive revenues from the sale of advertising and promotion of prescription and over-the-counter drugs. If the FDA or the FTC finds that any of the information provided on our properties violates FDA or FTC regulations, they may take regulatory or judicial action against us and/or the advertiser of that information. State attorneys general may also take similar action based on their state's consumer protection statutes. Any increase or change in regulation of advertising and promotion in the healthcare industry could make it more difficult for us to generate and grow our advertising and sponsorship revenues.. In addition, the practice of most healthcare professions requires licensing under applicable state law and state laws may further prohibit business entities from practicing medicine, which is referred to as the prohibition against the corporate practice of medicine. Similar state prohibitions may exist with respect to other licensed professions. We believe that we do not engage in the practice of medicine or any other licensed healthcare profession, or provide, through our properties, professional medical advice, diagnosis, treatment or other advice that is tailored in such a way as to implicate state licensing or professional practice laws. However, a state may determine that some portion of our business violates these laws and may seek to have us discontinue those portions or subject us to penalties or licensure requirements. Any determination that we are a healthcare provider and acted improperly as a healthcare provider may result in liability to us.. Our business could suffer if providers of broadband internet access services block, impair or degrade our services.. Our business is dependent on the ability of our cloud services customers and visitors to our digital media properties to access our services and applications over broadband internet connections. Internet access providers and internet backbone providers may be able to block, degrade or charge for access or bandwidth use of certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users. Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the internet. Use of our services and applications through mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablets, must have a high-speed data connection. Broadband internet access services, whether wireless or landline, are provided by companies with significant market power. Many of these providers offer products and services that directly compete with ours.. On January 4, 2018, the FCC, released an order that largely repeals rules that the FCC had in place which prevented broadband internet access providers from degrading or otherwise disrupting a broad range of services provisioned over consumers' and enterprises' broadband internet access lines. The FCC's January 4, 2018, Order is not yet effective and there are efforts in Congress to prevent the Order from becoming effective. Additionally, a number of state attorneys general have filed an appeal of the FCC's January 4, 2018, Order and others may also appeal the Order. A number of states have either passed legislation, adopted state executive agency policies or are in the process of adopting legislation that would prevent broadband internet access providers from blocking, degrading and otherwise impairing consumers' and internet applications service providers' broadband internet access services. We cannot predict whether the FCC's January 4, 2018, Order will become effective, whether it will withstand appeal, or whether states have the authority to adopt legislation and executive policies that may conflict with the FCC's January 4, 2018, Order.. Many of the largest providers of broadband services have publicly stated that they will not degrade or disrupt their customers' use of applications and services, like ours.  If such providers were to degrade, impair or block our services, it would negatively impact our ability to provide services to our customers and likely result in lost revenue and profits, and we would incur legal fees in attempting to restore our customers' access to our services. Broadband internet access providers may also attempt to charge us or our customers additional fees to access services like ours that may result in the loss of customers and revenue, decreased profitability, or increased costs to our retail offerings that may make our services less competitive. We cannot predict the potential impact of the FCC's January 4, 2018, Order on us at this time nor can we evaluate the potential impact at this time.. Our cloud services business is dependent on a small number of telecommunications carriers in each region and our inability to maintain agreements at attractive rates with such carriers may negatively impact our business.. Our cloud services business substantially depends on the capacity, affordability, reliability and security of our network and services provided to us by our telecommunications suppliers. Only a small number of carriers in each region, and in some cases only one carrier, offer the number and network services we require. We purchase certain telecommunications services pursuant to short-term agreements that the providers can terminate or elect not to renew. As a result, any or all of our current carriers could discontinue providing us with service at rates acceptable to us, or at all, and we may not be able to obtain adequate replacements, which could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. -. 27. -. Our business could suffer if we cannot obtain or retain numbers, are prohibited from obtaining local numbers or are limited to distributing local numbers to only certain customers.. The future success of our number-based cloud services business depends on our ability to procure large quantities of local numbers in the U.S. and foreign countries in desirable locations at a reasonable cost and offer our services to our prospective customers without restrictions. Our ability to procure and distribute numbers depends on factors such as applicable regulations, the practices of telecommunications carriers that provide numbers, the cost of these numbers and the level of demand for new numbers. For example, several years ago the FCC conditionally granted petitions by Connecticut and California to adopt specialized \"unified messaging\" area codes, but neither state has adopted such a code. Adoption of a specialized area code within a state or nation could harm our ability to compete in that state or nation if it materially affects our ability to acquire numbers for our operations or makes our services less attractive due to the unavailability of numbers with a local geographic area.. In addition, although we are the customer of record for all of our U.S. numbers, from time to time, certain U.S. telephone carriers inhibit our ability to port numbers or port our numbers away from us to other carriers. If a federal or regulatory agency determines that our customers should have the ability to port numbers without our consent, we may lose customers at a faster rate than what we have experienced historically, potentially resulting in lower revenues. Also, in some foreign jurisdictions, under certain circumstances, our customers are permitted to port their numbers to another carrier. These factors could lead to increased cancellations by our cloud services customers and loss of our number inventory. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth in or entry into foreign or domestic markets.. In addition, future growth in our number-based cloud services subscriber base, together with growth in the subscriber bases of other providers of number-based services, has increased and may continue to increase the demand for large quantities of numbers, which could lead to insufficient capacity and our inability to acquire sufficient numbers to accommodate our future growth.. We may be subject to increased rates for the telecommunications services we purchase from regulated carriers which could require us to either raise the retail prices of our offerings and lose customers or reduce our profit margins.. The FCC adopted wide-ranging reforms to the system under which regulated providers of telecommunications services compensate each other for the exchange of various kinds of traffic. While we are not a provider of regulated telecommunications services, we rely on such providers to offer our cloud services to our customers. As a result of the FCC's reforms, regulated providers of telecommunications services are determining how the rates they charge customers like us will change in order to comply with the new rules. It is possible that some or all of our underlying carriers will increase the rates we pay for certain telecommunications services. Should this occur, the costs we incur to provide number-based cloud services may increase which may require us to increase the retail price of our services. Increased prices could, in turn, cause us to lose customers, or, if we do not pass on such higher costs to our subscribers, our profit margins may decrease.. New technologies have been developed that are able to block certain of our advertisements or impair our ability to serve interest-based advertising which could harm our operating results.. Technologies have been developed and are likely to continue to be developed that can block internet or mobile display advertising. Most of our Digital Media segment revenues are derived from fees paid by advertisers in connection with the display of advertisements or clicks on advertisements on web pages or mobile devices. As a result, such technologies and tools are reducing the number of display advertisements that we are able to deliver or our ability to serve our interest-based advertising and this, in turn, could reduce our advertising revenue and operating results.  Adoption of these types of technologies by more of our users could have a material impact on our revenues. We have implemented third party products to combat these ad-blocking technologies and are developing other strategies to address advertisement blocking. However, our efforts may not be successful to offset the potential increasing impact of these advertising blocking products.. If we or our third-party service providers fail to prevent click fraud or choose to manage traffic quality in a way that advertisers find unsatisfactory, our profitability may decline.. A portion of our display revenue comes from advertisers that pay for advertising on a price-per-click basis, meaning that the advertisers pay a fee every time a user clicks on their advertising. This pricing model can be vulnerable to so-called \"click fraud,\" which occurs when clicks are submitted on ads by a user who is motivated by reasons other than genuine interest in the subject of the ad. We or our third-party service providers may be exposed to the risk of click fraud or other clicks or conversions that advertisers may perceive as undesirable. If fraudulent or other malicious activity is perpetrated by others and we or our third-. -. 28. -. party service providers are unable to detect and prevent it, or choose to manage traffic quality in a way that advertisers find unsatisfactory, the affected advertisers may experience or perceive a reduced return on their investment in our advertising programs which could lead the advertisers to become dissatisfied with our advertising programs and they might refuse to pay, demand refunds, or withdraw future business. Undetected click fraud could damage our brands and lead to a loss of advertisers and revenue.. If we are unable to continue to attract visitors to our websites from search engines, then consumer traffic to our websites could decrease, which could negatively impact the sales of our products and services, our advertising revenue and the number of purchases generated for our retailers through our Digital Media marketplace.. We generate consumer traffic to our websites using various methods, including search engine marketing, or SEM, search engine optimization, or SEO, email campaigns and social media referrals. Our net revenues and profitability levels are dependent upon our continued ability to use a combination of these methods to generate consumer traffic to our websites in a cost-efficient manner. We have experienced and continue to experience fluctuations in search result rankings for a number of our websites. There can be no assurances that we will be able to grow or maintain current levels of consumer traffic.. Our SEM and SEO techniques have been developed to work with existing search algorithms utilized by the major search engines. Major search engines frequently modify their search algorithms. Changes in these algorithms could cause our websites to receive less favorable placements, which could reduce the number of users who visit our websites. In addition, we use keyword advertising to improve our search ranking and to attract users to our sites. If we fail to follow legal requirements regarding the use of keywords or search engine guidelines and policies properly, search engines may rank our content lower in search results or could remove our content altogether from their indices.. Any decline in consumer traffic to our websites could adversely impact the amount of ads that are displayed and the number of purchases we generate for our retailers, which could adversely affect our net revenues. An attempt to replace this traffic through other channels may require us to increase our sales and marketing expenditures, which would adversely affect our operating results and which may not be offset by additional net revenues.. The industries in which we operate are undergoing rapid technological changes and we may not be able to keep up.. The industries in which we operate are subject to rapid and significant technological change. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We expect that new services and technologies will emerge in the markets in which we compete.  These new services and technologies may be superior to the services and technologies that we use or these new services may render our services and technologies obsolete. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. We may be unable to obtain access to new technologies on acceptable terms or at all, and may therefore be unable to offer services in a competitive manner. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Increased cost of email transmissions could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely on email for the delivery of certain cloud services. We also offer email security, encryption and archival services. If regulations or other changes in the industry lead to a charge associated with the sending or receiving of email messages, the cost of providing our services could increase and, if significant, could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Risks Related To Our Stock. The fundamental change purchase feature of the Convertible Notes and the change of control features of the Senior Notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial attempt to take over our company.. The terms of the Convertible Notes require us to offer to purchase the Convertible Notes for cash in the event of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes), and the terms of the Senior Notes require our subsidiary, j2 Cloud Services, to offer to repurchase the Senior Notes for cash in the event of a change of control (as defined in the indenture governing the Senior Notes). These features may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to investors.. -. 29. -. Conversions of the Convertible Notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their Convertible Notes.. The conversion of some or all of the Convertible Notes will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Convertible Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Convertible Notes could depress the price of our common stock.. We are a holding company and our operations are conducted through, and substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by, our subsidiaries, which are subject to certain restrictions on their ability to pay dividends to us to fund dividends on our stock, pay interest on the Convertible Notes and fund other holding company expenses.. We are a holding company. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries. A substantial portion of our consolidated assets is held by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on our stock, service our debt, including the Convertible Notes and fund other holding company expenses depends on the results of operations of our subsidiaries and upon the ability of such subsidiaries to provide us with cash, whether in the form of dividends, loans or otherwise.. In addition, dividends, loans or other distributions to us from such subsidiaries are subject to contractual and other restrictions and are subject to other business considerations. j2 Cloud Services, is subject to restrictions on dividends in its existing indenture with respect to the Senior Notes. The Senior Notes indenture generally prohibits dividends except out of a basket of 50% of cumulative net income (as defined in the indenture) and proceeds from equity offerings, although it permits any dividends if j2 Cloud Services' pro forma leverage ratio (as calculated as required by the indenture) is less than 3.0 to 1. While j2 Cloud Services is currently in compliance with such covenants, its ability to comply with such covenants is subject to conditions outside its control. If we cannot obtain cash from our subsidiaries, we may not be able to pay dividends on our stock, pay interest on the Convertible Notes and fund other operating company expenses without additional sources of cash.. Quarterly dividends may not continue, may not continue to grow or could decrease.. We may not continue to issue quarterly dividends or we could decrease the amount of any future dividends or cease to increase the amount of any future dividends. We paid our first quarterly dividend of $0.20 per share of common stock on September 19, 2011. We have declared increasing dividends in each subsequent quarter. Future dividends are subject to Board approval. We cannot assure that the Company will continue to pay a dividend in the future or the amount of any future dividends.. Future sales of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price.. As of February 26, 2018, substantially all of our outstanding shares of common stock were available for resale, subject to volume and manner of sale limitations applicable to affiliates under SEC Rule 144. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market or the perception of such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a price that we think is appropriate, or at all.. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders.. Provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire control of us. For example, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would make it more difficult for another party to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without requiring any stockholder approval, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders.. -. 30. -. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline.. Our stock price and trading volumes have been volatile and we expect that this volatility will continue in the future due to factors, such as:. • Assessments of the size of our subscriber base and our average revenue per subscriber, and comparisons of our results in these and other areas versus prior performance and that of our competitors;. • Variations between our actual results and investor expectations;. • Regulatory or competitive developments affecting our markets;. • Investor perceptions of us and comparable public companies;. • Conditions and trends in the communications, messaging and internet-related industries;. • Announcements of technological innovations and acquisitions;. • Introduction of new services by us or our competitors;. • Developments with respect to intellectual property rights;. • Conditions and trends in the internet and other technology industries;. • Rumors, gossip or speculation published on public chat or bulletin boards;. • General market conditions; and. • Geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions.. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stocks of technology and other companies, particularly communications and internet companies. These broad market fluctuations have previously resulted in a material decline in the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation is often expensive and diverts management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows."
