[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem insignificant may also impair our business operations. Following is a discussion of known potentially significant risks which could result in harm to our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks of Shortages or Increased Cost of Raw Materials. We are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy. The raw materials and energy which we use for the production and distribution of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental controls. We purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. Our procurement practices are intended to reduce the risk of future price increases, but also may potentially limit the ability to benefit from possible price decreases. If commodity price changes result in increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating income.. 6. General Risks of the Food Industry. Food processors are subject to the risks of adverse changes in general economic conditions; evolving consumer preferences and nutritional and health-related concerns; changes in food distribution channels; federal, state and local food processing controls or other mandates; changes in federal, state, local and international laws and regulations, or in the application of such laws and regulations; consumer product liability claims; risks of product tampering; and negative publicity surrounding actual or perceived product safety deficiencies. The increased buying power of large supermarket chains, other retail outlets and wholesale food vendors could result in greater resistance to price increases and could alter the pattern of customer inventory levels and access to shelf space.. Environmental Risks. The disposal of solid and liquid waste material resulting from the preparation and processing of foods is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Such laws and regulations have an important effect on the food processing industry as a whole, requiring substantially all firms in the industry to incur material expenditures for modification of existing processing facilities and for construction of upgraded or new waste treatment facilities.. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist. Enactment of more stringent laws or regulations or more strict interpretation of existing laws and regulations may require additional expenditures by us, some of which could be material.. Risks Resulting from Customer Concentration. We have several large customers that account for a significant portion of our sales. Our top ten customers accounted for 42%, 42% and 43% of our sales during fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, with our largest customer accounting for 9% of our sales in 2017, 8% of our sales in 2016 and 8% of our sales in 2015. Three of the ten customers are food distributors who sell our product to many end users. The loss of one or more of our large customers could adversely affect our results of operations. These customers typically do not enter into long-term contracts and make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand and customer service performance. If our sales to one or more of these customers are reduced, this reduction may adversely affect our business. If receivables from one or more of these customers become uncollectible, our operating income would be adversely impacted.. Competition. Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. We compete against national and regional manufacturers and distributors on the basis of price, quality, product variety and effective distribution. Many of our major competitors in the market are larger and have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Increased competition and anticipated actions by our competitors could lead to downward pressure on prices and/or a decline in our market share, either of which could adversely affect our results. See “Competition” in Item 1 for more information about our competitors.. Risks Relating to Manufacturing. Our ability to purchase, manufacture and distribute products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemic, political upheaval, labor strikes, work stoppages or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or distribute our products.. New Jersey Law and Provisions of Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws May Inhibit a Change In Control. The New Jersey Shareholders' Protection Act, N.J.S.A. 14A:10A-1, et. seq., may delay, deter or prevent a change in control by prohibiting the Company from engaging in a business combination transaction with an interested shareholder for a period of five years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a majority of our shareholders believe a change in control would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. In addition, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a future acquisition of J & J Snack Foods Corp. not approved by our Board of Directors. This could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if a substantial number or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors in connection with the transaction. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws that could delay, deter or prevent a future acquisition include the following:. 7. --  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta classified Board of Directors;. --  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe requirement that our shareholders may only remove Directors for cause;. --  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimitations on share holdings and voting of certain persons;. --  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tspecial Director voting rights;. --  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability of the Board of Directors to consider the interests of various constituencies, including our employees, customers, suppliers, creditors and the local communities in which we operate;. -- \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tshareholders do not generally have the right to call special meetings or to act by written consent;. -- \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour Bylaws contain advance notice procedures for nominations of Directors or submission of shareholder proposals at an annual meeting; and. -- \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour Bylaws contain a forum selection clause providing that certain litigation against the Company can only be brought in New Jersey state or federal courts.. Risks Relating to Gerald B. Shreiber. Gerald B. Shreiber is the founder, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company and the current beneficial owner of 20% of its outstanding common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that Mr. Shreiber has three votes on any matter to be acted upon by the Board of Directors (subject to certain adjustments). Therefore, he and one other director would have the ability to approve any matter before the Board. The performance of this Company is greatly impacted by his leadership and decisions. His retirement, disability or death may have a significant impact on our future operations.. Risk Related to Increases in our Health Insurance Costs and Costs of Compliance with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. The costs of employee health care insurance have been increasing in recent years due to rising health care costs, legislative changes, and general economic conditions.  Additionally, we may incur additional costs because of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Health Care Reform Laws”).  Provisions of these laws have become and will become effective over the past several years and at various dates over the next several years.  Because of the breadth and complexity of these laws and the phased-in nature of the new regulations, as well as other health care reform legislation considered by Congress and state legislatures, we cannot predict with certainty the future effect of these laws on us.  A continued increase in health care costs or additional costs incurred as a result of the Health Care Reform Laws or the enforcement of the Health Care Reform Laws or other future health care reform laws imposed by Congress or state legislations could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations.. Risk Related to Product Changes. There are risks in the marketplace related to trade and consumer acceptance of product improvements, packing initiatives and new product introductions.. Risks Related to Change in the Business. Our ability to successfully manage changes to our business processes, including selling, distribution, product capacity, information management systems and the integration of acquisitions, will directly affect our results of operations.. Risks Associated with Foreign Operations. Foreign operations generally involve greater risk than doing business in the United States. Foreign economies differ favorably or unfavorably from the United States’ economy in such respects as the level of inflation and debt, which may result in fluctuations in the value of the country’s currency and real property. Further, there may be less government regulation in various countries, and difficulty in enforcing legal rights outside the United States. Additionally, in some foreign countries, there is the possibility of expropriation or confiscatory taxation limitations on the removal of property or other assets, political or social instability or diplomatic developments which could affect the operations and assets of U.S. companies doing business in that country. Sales of our foreign operations were $31,001,000, $27,075,000 and $25,313,000 in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. At September 30, 2017, the total assets of our foreign operations were approximately $39 million or 4.5% of total assets. At September 24, 2016, the total assets of our foreign operations were approximately $29 million or 3.7% of total assets.. 8. Risks associated with our information technology systems. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, manufacturing, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems (including those provided to us by third parties) to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in billing, collecting, and ordering errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer.. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, security breaches or intrusions (including theft of customer, consumer or other confidential data), and viruses. If we are unable to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks and other information security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, be subject to litigation or incur remediation costs or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, suppliers or employees.. Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations. Our sales are affected by the seasonal demand for our products. Demand is greater during the summer months primarily as a result of the warm weather demand for our ICEE and frozen juice treats and desserts products. Because of seasonal fluctuations, there can be no assurance that the results of any particular quarter will be indicative of results for the full year or for future years."                                                                        
