[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS. We caution you that our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors listed below are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results and from projections in the forward-looking statements contained in this report, in our other filings with the SEC, in our news releases and in oral statements by our representatives. However, other factors that we do not anticipate or that we do not consider significant based on currently available information may also have an adverse effect on our results.. Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry. Changes in consumer confidence and declines in general economic conditions could negatively impact our financial results.. The restaurant industry depends on consumer discretionary spending. We are impacted by consumer confidence, which is, in turn, influenced by general economic conditions and discretionary income levels. A material decline in consumer confidence or a decline in family \"food away from home\" spending could cause our financial results to decline. If economic conditions worsen, customer traffic could be adversely impacted if our customers choose to dine out less frequently or reduce the amount they spend on meals while dining out which could cause our average restaurant sales to decline. An economic downturn may be caused by a variety of factors, such as macro-economic shocks, increased unemployment rates, increased taxes, interest rates or other changes in government fiscal policy. High gasoline prices, increased healthcare costs, declining home prices, and political unrest, foreign or domestic, may potentially contribute to an economic downturn, as may regional or local events, including natural disasters or local regulation. The impact of these factors may be exacerbated by the geographic profile of our Jack in the Box brand. Specifically, nearly 70% of the restaurants in our Jack in the Box system are located in the states of California and Texas. Economic conditions, state and local laws, or government regulations affecting those states may therefore more greatly impact our results than would similar occurrences in other locations.. In addition, if economic conditions deteriorate or are uncertain for a prolonged period of time, or if our operating results decline unexpectedly, we may be required to record impairment charges, which will negatively impact our results of operations for the periods in which they are recorded. Due to the foregoing or other factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for a full fiscal year. These fluctuations may cause our operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and may adversely impact our stock price.. 10. We face significant competition in the food service industry and our inability to compete may adversely affect our business.. The food service industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location, product offering, image and attractiveness of the facilities, personnel, advertising, brand identification, and food quality. Our competition includes a large number of national and regional restaurant chains, as well as locally owned and/or independent businesses. In particular, we operate in the quick service and fast-casual restaurant chain segments, in both of which we face a number of established competitors, as well as frequent new entrants to the segment nationally and in regional markets. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel, and other resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have greater name recognition nationally or in some of the local or regional markets in which we have restaurants.. Additionally, the trend toward convergence in grocery, deli, and restaurant services is increasing the number of our competitors. For example, competitive pressures can come from deli sections and in-store cafes of major grocery store chains, including those targeted at customers who desire high-quality food and convenience, as well as from convenience stores and other dining outlets. These competitors may have, among other things, a more diverse menu, lower operating costs and prices, better locations, better facilities, better management, more effective marketing, and more efficient operations than we do. Such increased competition could decrease the demand for our products and negatively affect our sales, operating results, profits, business and financial position, and prospects (collectively, our \"financial results\").. While we continue to make improvements to our facilities, to implement new service and training initiatives, and to introduce new products, there can be no assurance that such efforts will generate increased sales or sufficient customer interest. Many of our competitors have introduced a variety of new products and service offerings, and advertise that their ingredients are more healthful or locally-sourced. Such competing products and health- or environmental-focused claims may hurt our competitive positioning as existing or potential customers could seek out other dining options.. Changes in demographic trends and in customer tastes and preferences could cause sales to decline.. Changes in customer preferences, demographic trends, and the number, type, and location of competing restaurants have great impact in the restaurant industry. Our sales could be impacted by changes in customer preferences in response to dietary concerns, such as preferences regarding calories, sodium content, carbohydrates, and fat. Such preference changes could result in customers favoring other foods to the exclusion of our menu items. Some customers also may choose to avoid freshly prepared foods, like those we serve, due to food safety concerns. Many of our restaurants, particularly our Qdoba restaurants, are located in or adjacent to shopping malls or similar retail districts; a consumer trend toward online shopping and delivery could reduce foot traffic and sales at these locations. If we fail to adapt to changes in customer preferences and trends, we may lose customers and our sales may deteriorate.. Increases in food and commodity costs could decrease our profit margins or result in a modified menu, which could adversely affect our financial results.. We and our franchisees are subject to volatility in food and commodity costs and availability. Accordingly, our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs and availability. As is true of all companies in the restaurant industry, we are susceptible to increases in food costs that are outside of our control. Factors that can impact food and commodity costs include general economic conditions, seasonal fluctuations, weather and climate conditions, global demand, trade protections and subsidies, food safety issues, infectious diseases, possible terrorist activity, currency fluctuations, product recalls and government regulatory schemes. Additionally, some of our produce, meats and restaurant supplies are sourced from outside the United States. Any new or increased import duties, tariffs or taxes, or other changes in U.S. trade or tax policy, could result in higher food and commodity costs that would adversely impact our financial results.. Weather and climate related issues, such as freezes or drought, may lead to temporary or even longer-term spikes in the prices of some ingredients such as produce and meats, or of livestock feed. Increasing weather volatility or other long-term changes in global weather patterns, including any changes associated with global climate change, could have a significant impact on the price or availability of some of our ingredients. Any increase in the prices of the ingredients most critical to our menu, such as beef, chicken, pork, tomatoes, lettuce and potatoes for Jack in the Box, and chicken, beef, cheese, avocados, beans, rice, lettuce, tomatoes, and pork for Qdoba, could adversely affect our financial results. In the event of cost increases with respect to one or more of our raw ingredients, we may choose to change our pricing or suspend serving a menu item, rather than paying the increased cost for the particular ingredient. Any such changes to our currently available menu may negatively impact our restaurant traffic and comparable restaurant sales, and could have an adverse impact on our brand and financial results.. We seek to manage food and commodity costs, including through extended fixed price contracts, strong category and commodity management, and purchasing fundamentals. However, certain commodities such as beef and pork, which currently represent approximately 20% and 7%, respectively, of our consolidated commodity spend, do not lend themselves to fixed price contracts.. 11. We cannot assure you that we will successfully enter into fixed price contracts on a timely basis or on commercially favorable pricing terms. In addition, although our produce contracts contain pre-determined price limits, we are subject to force majeure clauses resulting from weather or acts of God that may result in temporary spikes in costs.. Further, we cannot assure you that we or our franchisees will be able to successfully anticipate and react effectively to changing food and commodity costs by adjusting purchasing practices or menu offerings. We and our franchisees also may not be able to pass along price increases to our customers as a result of adverse economic conditions, competitive pricing or other factors. Therefore, variability of food and other commodity costs could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations.. Failure to receive scheduled deliveries of high quality food ingredients and other supplies could harm our operations.. Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh produce and other food products subjects food service businesses such as ours to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply could adversely affect the availability, quality or cost of ingredients or require us to incur additional costs to obtain adequate supplies. Deliveries of supplies may be affected by adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, financial or solvency issues of our distributors or suppliers, product recalls, or other issues. Further, increases in fuel prices could result in increased distribution costs. In addition, if any of our distributors, suppliers, vendors or other contractors fail to meet our quality or safety standards or otherwise do not perform adequately, or if any one or more of them seeks to terminate its agreement or fails to perform as anticipated, or if there is any disruption in any of our distribution or supply relationships or operations for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially affected.. We have a limited number of suppliers for our major products and rely on a distribution network with a limited number of distribution partners for the majority of our national distribution program in the United States. If our suppliers or distributors are unable to fulfill their obligations under their contracts, it could harm our operations.. We contract with a distribution network with a limited number of distribution partners located throughout the nation to provide the majority of our food distribution services in the United States. Through these arrangements, our food supplies are largely distributed through several primary distributors. If any of these relationships are interrupted or terminated, or if one or more supply or distribution partners are unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations for whatever reasons, product availability to our restaurants may be interrupted, and business and financial results may be negatively impacted.  Although we believe that alternative supply and distribution sources are available, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify or negotiate with such sources on terms that are commercially reasonable to us.. Food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business by reducing demand and increasing costs.. Food safety is a top priority for our company, and we expend significant resources on food safety programs to ensure that our customers are able to enjoy safe and high quality food products. These include a daily, structured food safety assessment and documentation process at our restaurants, and periodic third-party and internal audits to review the food safety performance of our vendors, distributors and restaurants. Nonetheless, food safety risks cannot be completely eliminated, and food safety and food-borne illness issues do occur in the food service industry. Any report or publicity linking us to instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues, including issues involving food tampering, natural or foreign objects, or other contaminants or adulterants in our food, could adversely affect our reputation, as well as our financial results. Furthermore, our reliance on food suppliers and distributors increases the risk that food-borne illness incidents could be introduced by third-party vendors outside our direct control. Although we test and audit these activities, we cannot guarantee that all food items are safely and properly maintained during transport or distribution throughout the supply chain.. Additionally, past reports linking nationwide or regional incidents of food-borne illnesses such as salmonella, E. coli, and listeria to certain products such as produce and proteins, or human-influenced illness such as hepatitis A or norovirus have resulted in consumers avoiding certain products and restaurant concepts for a period of time. Similarly, reaction to media-influenced reports of avian flu, incidents of \"mad cow\" disease, or similar concerns have also caused consumers to avoid any products that are, or are suspected of being, affected and could have an adverse effect on the price and availability of affected ingredients. Further, if we react to these problems by changing our menu or other key aspects of the brand experience, we may lose customers who do not accept those changes, and we may not be able to attract enough new customers to generate sufficient revenue to make our restaurants profitable.. Our restaurants currently have an ingredient mix that can be exposed to one or more food allergens, such as eggs, wheat, milk, fish, shellfish, tree nuts, peanuts, and soy. We employ precautionary allergen training steps for food handlers in order to minimize risk of allergen cross contamination. Even with such precautionary measures, the potential risk of allergen cross contamination exists in a restaurant environment. A potentially serious allergic reaction by a guest may result in adverse public communication, media coverage, a decline in restaurant sales, and a material decline in our financial results.. 12. Negative publicity relating to our business or industry could adversely impact our reputation.. Our business can be materially and adversely affected by widespread negative publicity of any type, particularly regarding food quality, food safety, nutritional content, safety or public health issues (such as outbreaks, epidemics, or the prospect of a pandemic), obesity or other health concerns, animal welfare issues, and employee relations issues, among other things. Adverse publicity in these areas could damage the trust customers place in our brand. The increasingly widespread use of mobile communications and social media platforms has amplified the speed and scope of adverse publicity and could hamper our ability to promptly correct misrepresentations or otherwise respond effectively to negative publicity. Any widespread negative publicity regarding the company, our brands, our vendors and suppliers, or the restaurant industry in general could cause a decline in restaurant sales, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Additionally, employee or customer claims against us or our franchisees based on, among other things, wage and hour violations, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination may also create negative publicity that could adversely affect us and divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be focused on the future performance of our operations. Consumer demand for our products could decrease significantly if any such incidents or other matters create negative publicity or otherwise erode consumer confidence in us, our brand or our products, or in the restaurant industry in general.. We are also subject to the risk of negative publicity associated with animal welfare regulations and campaigns. Our restaurants utilize ingredients manufactured from beef, poultry, and pork. Our policies require that our approved food suppliers and their raw material providers engage in proper animal welfare practices. Despite our policies and efforts, media reports and portrayals of inhumane acts toward animals by participants in the food supply chain, whether by our suppliers or not, can create a negative opinion or perception of the food industry's animal welfare efforts. Such media reports and negative publicity could impact guest perception of our brand or industry, and can have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs or difficulties in finding and retaining top-performing personnel.. Labor is a primary component of our operating costs, and we believe good managers and crew are a key part of our success. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our restaurant managers and crew. Increased labor costs due to factors such as competition for workers, labor market pressures, increased minimum wage requirements, paid sick leave or vacation accrual mandates, or other legal or regulatory changes, such as predictive scheduling, may adversely impact operating costs for us and our franchisees. Additional taxes or requirements to incur additional employee benefit costs, including the requirements of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the \"Affordable Care Act\") or any new or replacement healthcare requirements, could also adversely impact our operating costs. Moreover, if restaurant managers do not schedule our restaurant crews efficiently, our restaurants may be overstaffed at some times, which adversely impacts our labor costs as a percentage of revenue, decreasing our operating margins.. We believe that our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain the services of skilled personnel, from our senior management to our in-store employees. The loss of the services of, or our inability to attract and retain, such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We aim to reduce turnover among our restaurant crews and managers in an effort to retain top performing employees and better realize our investment in training new employees. Any failure to do so may adversely impact our operating results by increasing training costs and making it more difficult to deliver outstanding customer service, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We may not have the same resources as our competitors for advertising and promotion.. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources, which enable them to invest significantly more than us in advertising, particularly television and radio ads, as well as endorsements and sponsorships; have a presence across more media channels; and support multiple system and regional product launches at one time. Should our competitors increase spending on advertising and promotion, or should the cost of advertising increase or our advertising funds decrease for any reason (including reduced sales, implementation of reduced spending strategies or a decrease in the percentage contribution to the marketing funds for any reason), our results of operations and financial condition may be materially impacted. The growing prevalence and importance of social media platforms, behavioral advertising and mobile technology also pose challenges and risks for our marketing, advertising and promotional strategies; and failure to effectively use and gain traction on these platforms or technologies could cause our advertising to be less effective than our competitors. Our financial results may be harmed if our advertising and promotion are less effective than our competitors for any of these reasons. Moreover, improper or damaging use of social media or mobile technology, including by our employees, franchisees, or guests could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity, all of which could materially impact our results.. 13. We may be adversely impacted by severe weather conditions, natural disasters, terrorist acts or civil unrest that could result in property damage, injury to employees and staff, and lost restaurant sales.. Food service businesses such as ours can be materially and adversely affected by severe weather conditions, such as severe storms, hurricanes, flooding, prolonged drought or protracted heat or cold waves, and by natural disasters, such as earthquakes and wild fires, or \"man-made\" calamities such as terrorist incidents or civil unrest, and their aftermath. Such occurrences could result in lost restaurant sales, property damage, lost products, interruptions in supply, and increased costs.. If systemic or widespread adverse changes in climate or weather patterns occur, we could experience more of these losses, and such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. The impact of these factors may be exacerbated by the geographic profile of our Jack in the Box brand, as nearly 70% of the restaurants in our Jack in the Box system are located in the states of California and Texas.. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations.. As a result of certain seasonal factors, our financial results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. For example, historically, average weekly sales for our restaurants system-wide are lowest in the first quarter of the year.. Risks Related to Our Business Strategy. We may not achieve our development goals.. We intend to grow Qdoba and Jack in the Box either through developing additional company-owned restaurants or new restaurant development by franchisees, both in existing markets and in new markets. Development involves substantial risks, including the risk of:. • the inability to identify suitable franchisees;. • limited availability of financing for the Company and for franchisees at acceptable rates and terms;. • development costs exceeding budgeted or contracted amounts;. • delays in completion of construction;. • the inability to identify, or the unavailability of suitable sites at acceptable cost and other leasing or purchase terms;. • developed properties not achieving desired revenue or cash flow levels once opened;. • the negative impact of a new restaurant upon sales at nearby existing restaurants;. • the challenge of developing in areas where competitors are more established or have greater penetration or access to suitable development sites;. • incurring substantial unrecoverable costs in the event a development project is abandoned prior to completion;. • impairment charges resulting from underperforming restaurants or decisions to curtail or cease investment in certain locations or markets;. • in new geographic markets where we have limited or no existing locations, the inability to successfully expand or acquire critical market presence for our brands, acquire name recognition, successfully market our products or attract new customers;. • operating cost levels that reduce the demand for, or raise the cost of, developing new restaurants;. • unique regulations or challenges applicable to operating in non-traditional locations, such as airports, college campuses, military or government facilities;. • the challenge of identifying, recruiting and training qualified restaurant management;. • the inability to obtain all required permits;. • changes in laws, regulations and interpretations, including interpretations of the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act; and. • general economic and business conditions.. Although we manage our growth and development activities to help reduce such risks, we cannot assure that our present or future growth and development activities will perform in accordance with our expectations. Our inability to expand in accordance with our plans or to manage the risks associated with our growth could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 14. The failure of our franchisees to operate successful and profitable restaurants could negatively impact our business.. The opening and continued success of franchise-operated restaurants depends on various factors, including the demand for our franchises, the selection of appropriate franchisee candidates, the identification and availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, permitting and regulatory compliance, the ability to meet construction schedules, the availability of financing, and the financial and other capabilities of our franchisees and developers. Despite the due diligence we perform during the recruiting process, we cannot assure you that the franchisees and developers planning the opening of franchise-operated restaurants will have the business abilities or sufficient access to financial resources necessary to open the restaurants as required by their agreements. Nor can we assure that they will prove to be effective operators and remain aligned with us with respect to operations, pricing, promotional or capital-intensive initiatives.. Our franchisees are contractually obligated to operate their restaurants in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, as well as the standards set forth in our agreements with them. However, franchisees are independent third parties whom we cannot and do not control beyond the terms of our agreements with them. If franchisees do not operate restaurants in an effective or profitable manner or consistent with applicable laws and required standards, the royalty, and in some cases rent, payments that we receive from the franchisees may be adversely affected. If customers have negative perceptions or experiences with the operations, food quality or safety at our franchised locations, the image and reputation of our brands could be harmed, which in turn could negatively impact our financial results. Also, if franchisee employees have negative experiences and stage work stoppages or otherwise generate bad publicity, this could negatively impact our brand equity and financial results, even though franchise employees are not Company employees.. With an increase in the proportion of Jack in the Box franchised restaurants, the percentage of our revenues derived from royalties and rents at Jack in the Box franchise restaurants has increased and is anticipated to continue to increase, as has the risk that earnings could be negatively impacted by defaults in the payment of royalties and rents. As small businesses, some of our franchise operators may be negatively and disproportionately impacted by strategic initiatives, capital requirements, inflation, labor costs, employee relations issues or other causes. In addition, franchisees' business obligations may not be limited to the operation of Jack in the Box or Qdoba restaurants, making them subject to business and financial risks unrelated to the operation of our restaurants. These unrelated risks could adversely affect a franchisee's ability to make payments to us or to make payments on a timely basis. We cannot assure you that our franchisees will successfully participate in our strategic or marketing initiatives or operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with our concepts and standards. As compared to some of our competitors, our Jack in the Box brand has relatively fewer franchisees who, on average, operate more restaurants per franchisee. There are significant risks to our business if a franchisee, particularly one who operates a large number of restaurants, encounters financial difficulties,  including bankruptcy, or fails to adhere to our standards, projecting an image inconsistent with our brands or negatively impacting our financial results.. We are subject to land risks and regulations with respect to our owned and leased properties and real estate development projects.. We own or lease the real properties on which most Jack in the Box system and our Qdoba company-operated restaurants are located, and we either own or lease (and subsequently lease/sublease to the franchisee) a majority of our Jack in the Box franchised restaurant sites and one of our Qdoba franchised restaurant sites. Further, we own our principal executive offices, our Innovation Center and approximately four acres of undeveloped land directly adjacent to the Innovation Center. We have engaged and continue to engage in real estate development projects. As is the case with any owner or operator of real property, we are subject to eminent domain proceedings that can impact the value of investments we have made in real property, and we are subject to other potential liabilities and damages arising out of owning, operating, leasing or otherwise having interests in real property.. Estimated values of our property, fixtures, and equipment or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain restaurant locations may cause us to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets; such charges may adversely affect our results of operations.. In accordance with accounting guidance as it relates to the impairment of long-lived assets, we make certain estimates and projections with regard to individual restaurant operations, as well as our overall performance, in connection with our impairment analyses for long-lived assets. We evaluate our long-lived assets, such as property and equipment, for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairment evaluations for individual restaurants take into consideration a restaurant's operating cash flows, the period of time since a restaurant has been opened or remodeled, and the maturity of the related market. The projections of future cash flows used in these analyses require the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future operating results. If actual results differ from our estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future. If future impairment charges are significant, our financial results would be adversely affected.. 15. Our tax provision may fluctuate due to changes in expected earnings.. Our income tax provision is sensitive to expected earnings and, as those expectations change, our income tax provisions may vary from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year.  In addition, we may occasionally take positions on our tax returns that differ from their treatment for financial reporting purposes. The difference in treatment of such positions could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate.. We may incur costs as a result of certain restructuring activities which may negatively impact our financial results.. We are continuously seeking the most cost-effective means and structure to serve our customers, protect our shareholders and respond to changes in our markets. Since the beginning of 2012, as part of our ongoing effort to drive efficiencies throughout our organization, we have engaged in an ongoing and, at times, comprehensive review of our organizational structure. In connection with these restructuring activities, our business has occasionally incurred restructuring costs. From time to time, we may continue to engage in restructuring activities in an effort to improve cost competitiveness and profitability. As a result, restructuring costs are expected to be a recurring component of our operating costs and may vary significantly from year to year depending on the scope of such activities. Such restructuring costs and expenses could adversely impact our financial results.. General Business Risks. We may experience cyber security breaches or other incidents.. We and our franchisees rely on computer systems and information technology to conduct our business. We have instituted controls, including information security governance controls, intended to: protect our computer systems, our point of sale (\"POS\") systems, and our information technology systems and networks; and adhere to payment card industry data security standards and limit third party access for vendors that require access to our restaurant networks. We also have business continuity plans that attempt to anticipate and mitigate failures. However, we cannot control or prevent every cyber security risk.. A material failure or interruption of service, or a breach in the security of our computer systems caused by malware or other attack, could cause: reduced efficiency in operations, loss or misappropriation of data, or other business interruptions; or could negatively impact: delivery of food to restaurants, or financial functions such as vendor payment, employee payroll, franchise operations reporting, or our ability to receive customer payments through our POS or other systems. Such events could negatively impact cash flows or require significant capital investment to rectify; result in damage to our business or reputation or loss of consumer confidence; and lead to potential costs, fines and litigation. These risks may be magnified by increased and changing regulations. The costs of compliance and risk mitigation planning, including increased investment in technology or personnel in order to protect valuable business or consumer information, may also negatively impact our financial results.. Restaurants and other retailers have faced, and we could in the future become subject to, claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of credit or debit card information or the loss of personally identifiable information, and we may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings in the future relating to these types of incidents. Any such proceedings could distract our management from running our business and cause us to incur significant unplanned losses and expenses. Consumer perception of our brand could also be negatively affected by these events, which could further adversely affect our financial results.. We collect and maintain personal information about our employees and our guests. The collection and use of such information is regulated at the federal and state levels. We increasingly rely on cloud computing and other technologies that result in third parties holding significant amounts of customer or employee information on our behalf. There has been an increase over the past several years in the frequency and sophistication of attempts to compromise the security of these types of systems. If the security and information systems that we or our outsourced third-party providers use to store or process such information are compromised or if we, or such third parties, otherwise fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could face litigation and the imposition of penalties that could adversely affect our financial performance. Our reputation as a brand or as an employer could also be adversely affected by these types of security breaches or regulatory violations, which could impair our ability to attract and keep qualified employees.. 16. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business.. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to further build brand recognition using our trademarks, service marks, trade dress, and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos, our strategy and the ambiance of our restaurants. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes our intellectual property, either in print, or on the Internet or a social media platform, the value of our brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and might prevent our brand from achieving or maintaining market acceptance.. We adjust our capital structure from time to time and we may increase our debt leverage which would make us more sensitive to the effects of economic downturns.. As of October 1, 2017, the Company has a credit facility comprised of a $900.0 million revolving credit agreement and a $700.0 million term loan. We may also request the issuance of up to $75.0 million in letters of credit, the outstanding amount of which reduces our net borrowing capacity under the credit agreement. For additional information related to our credit facility, refer to Note 7, Indebtedness, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Increased leverage resulting from borrowings under our credit facility could have certain material adverse effects on the Company, including but not limited to the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes could be impaired, or any such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us;. • a substantial portion of our cash flows could be required for debt service and, as a result, might not be available for our operations or other purposes;. • any substantial decrease in net operating cash flows or any substantial increase in expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements or could force us to modify our operations or sell assets;. • our ability to operate our business and our ability to repurchase stock or pay cash dividends to our stockholders may be restricted by the financial and other covenants set forth in the credit facility;. • our ability to withstand competitive pressures may be decreased; and. • our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions.. Our ability to repay expected borrowings under our credit facility and to meet our other debt or contractual obligations (including compliance with applicable financial covenants) will depend upon our future performance and our cash flows from operations, both of which are subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other known and unknown risks and uncertainties, certain of which are beyond our control. In addition, to the extent that banks in our revolving credit facility become insolvent, our ability to borrow to the full level of our facility could be limited.. The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors.. Many factors affect the trading price of our stock, including factors over which we have no control, such as reports on the economy, the industry or the price of commodities, as well as negative or positive announcements by competitors, regardless of whether the report relates directly to our business. In addition to investor expectations about our prospects, trading activity in our stock can reflect the portfolio strategies and investment allocation changes of institutional holders and non-operating initiatives such as a share repurchase program. Any failure to meet market expectations whether for sales, growth rates, refranchising goals, earnings per share or other metrics could cause our share price to drop.. Changes in accounting standards may negatively impact our results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards, policies or related interpretations by accountants or regulatory entities may negatively impact our financial results. Many accounting standards require management to make subjective assumptions and estimates, such as those required for long-lived assets, retirement benefits, self-insurance, restaurant closing costs, goodwill and other intangibles, legal accruals, and income taxes. Changes in those underlying assumptions and estimates could significantly change our results.. 17. We may be subject to claims or litigation that are costly and could result in our payment of substantial damages or settlement costs.. We are subject to complaints or litigation brought by former, current or prospective employees, customers, franchisees, vendors, landlords, shareholders, government regulations, or others. We assess contingencies to determine the degree of probability and range of possible losses for potential accrual in our financial statements. An estimated loss contingency is accrued if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Because lawsuits are inherently unpredictable and unfavorable resolutions could occur, assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. We regularly review contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. However, the amount of ultimate loss may differ from these estimates. A judgment that is not covered by insurance or that is significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially adversely affect our financial results. In addition, regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are found to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend, and may divert management's attention away from our operations and hurt our performance. Further, adverse publicity resulting from claims against us or our franchisees may harm our business or that of our franchisees.. Unionization activities or labor disputes may disrupt our operations and affect our profitability.. Some or all of our employees or our franchisees' employees may elect to be represented by labor unions in the future. If a significant number of these employees were to become unionized and collective bargaining agreement terms were significantly different from current compensation arrangements, this could adversely affect our business and financial results or the business and financial results of our franchisees. In addition, a labor dispute or organizing effort involving some or all of our employees or our franchisees' employees may harm our brand and reputation. Resolution of such disputes may be costly and time-consuming, and thus increase our costs and distract management resources.. Our insurance may not provide adequate levels of coverage against claims.. We believe that we maintain insurance policies customary for businesses of our size and type. Historically, through the use of deductibles or self-insurance retentions, we retained a portion of expected losses for our workers' compensation, general liability, certain employee medical and dental, employment, property and other claims. However, there are types of losses that we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our bylaws contain an exclusive forum provision that may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors and officers.. Our bylaws provide that unless our Board of Directors otherwise determines, the state courts in the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the District of Delaware), will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any directors or officers to the Company or our stockholders, or any action asserting a claim as to which the Delaware General Corporate Law confers jurisdiction on the Delaware Court of Chancery. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. Alternatively, if a court outside of Delaware were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in multiple jurisdictions, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results.. 18. Risks Related to Government Regulations. Governmental regulation, including in one or more of the following areas, may adversely affect our existing and future operations and results, including by harming our ability to profitably operate our restaurants.. Americans with Disabilities Act and Similar State Laws. We are subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. The expenses associated with any modifications we may be required to undertake with respect to our restaurants or services, or any damages, legal fees, and costs associated with litigating or resolving claims under the ADA or similar state laws, could be material.. Food Regulation. The Food Safety Modernization Act signed into law in January 2011, granted the FDA new authority regarding the safety of the entire food system, including through increased inspections and mandatory food recalls. Although restaurants are  not directly implicated by some of these new requirements,  our suppliers may initiate or otherwise be subject to food recalls or other consequences impacting the availability of certain products, which could result in adverse publicity, or require us to take actions that could be costly for us or otherwise impact our business and financial results.. Local Licensure, Zoning and Other Regulation. Each of our restaurants is subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, alcoholic beverage, sanitation, food and workplace safety and other agencies. We may experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for new restaurants, which could delay planned restaurant openings. In addition, stringent and varied requirements of local regulators with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations. More specifically, some of our Qdoba restaurants sell alcoholic beverages, which require additional licensing. The regulations governing such licensing may impose requirements on licensees including minimum age of employees, hours of operation, and advertising and handling of alcoholic beverages. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain a license could adversely affect the store's financial results.. Environmental Laws. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, as well as local ordinances restricting the types of packaging we can use in our restaurants. If and to the extent any hazardous or toxic substances are present on or adjacent to any of our restaurant locations, we believe any such contamination would be the responsibility of one or more third parties, and would have been or should be addressed by the responsible party. If the relevant third parties have not or do not address the identified contamination properly or completely, then under certain environmental laws, we could be held liable as an owner or operator to address any remaining contamination, sometimes without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the release or presence of hazardous or toxic substances. Any such liability could be material. Further, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities at our properties, and any such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We also cannot predict what environmental laws or laws regarding packaging will be enacted in the future, how existing or future environmental or packaging laws will be administered or interpreted, or the amount of future expenditures that we may need to make to comply with, or to satisfy claims relating to, such laws.. Employment and Immigration Laws. We and our franchisees are subject to the federal labor laws, including the Fair Labor Standards Act, as well as various state and local laws governing such matters as minimum wages, exempt status classification, overtime, breaks, and other working conditions for employees. Federal, state and local laws may also require us to provide paid and unpaid leave, healthcare, or other benefits to our employees. Changes in the law, or penalties associated with any failure on our part to comply with legal requirements, could increase our labor costs or result in significant additional expense to us and our franchisees.. Various states in which we operate are considering or have already adopted new immigration laws or enforcement programs, and the U.S. Congress and the Department of Homeland Security from time to time consider and may implement changes to federal immigration laws, regulations or enforcement programs. Immigration laws have recently been an area of considerable focus by the Department of Homeland Security, with enforcement operations taking place across the country, resulting in arrests and detentions of unauthorized workers. Some of these changes and enforcement programs may increase our obligations for compliance and oversight, which could subject us to additional costs and make our hiring process more cumbersome. Although we require all. 19. workers to provide us with government-specified documentation evidencing their employment eligibility, some of our employees may, without our knowledge, be unauthorized workers. All of our Company restaurants, as well as our corporate support center, currently participate in the \"E-Verify\" program, an Internet-based, free program run by the United States government to verify employment eligibility. However, use of the \"E-Verify\" program does not guarantee that we will successfully identify all applicants who are ineligible for employment. Unauthorized workers are subject to deportation and may subject us to fines or penalties, and if any of our employees or our franchisees' employees are found to be unauthorized we could experience adverse publicity that negatively impacts our brand and may make it more difficult to hire and keep qualified employees. Termination of a significant number of employees who are found to be unauthorized workers may disrupt operations, cause temporary increases in labor costs to train new employees, and result in additional adverse publicity. We could also become subject to fines, penalties, and other costs related to claims that we did not fully comply with all record keeping obligations of federal and state immigration compliance laws. These factors could materially adversely affect our financial results.. Franchising Activities. Our domestic franchising activities are subject to federal regulations administered by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, laws enacted by a number of states, and with respect to Qdoba, certain rules and requirements regulating franchising activities in Canada, where we have some franchise-operated Qdoba restaurants. In particular, we are subject to federal, state, and Canadian laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises, as well as judicial and administrative interpretations of such laws. Such laws impose registration and disclosure requirements on franchisors in the offer and sale of franchises, and may also apply substantive standards to the relationship between franchisor and franchisee, including limitations on the ability of franchisors to terminate franchises and alter franchise arrangements. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws, rules, and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could negatively affect our ability to grow or expand our franchise business and sell franchises.. The proliferation of federal, state, and local regulations increases our compliance risks, which in turn could adversely affect our business.. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations. The increasing amount and complexity of regulations and their interpretation may increase the costs to us and our franchisees of labor and compliance, and increase our exposure to legal and regulatory claims which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we strive to comply with all applicable existing rules and regulations, we cannot predict the effect on our operations from modifications to the language or interpretations of existing requirements, or to the issuance of new or additional requirements in the future.. Changes to healthcare laws in the United States or the repeal of existing healthcare laws may negatively impact our financial results in future periods.. The Affordable Care Act requires health care coverage for many previously uninsured individuals and expands coverage for those already insured. If we fail to offer such benefits, or the benefits we elect to offer do not meet the applicable requirements, we may incur penalties. Since the Affordable Care Act also requires individuals to obtain coverage or face individual penalties, employees who are currently eligible for but elect not to participate in our healthcare plans may find it advantageous to do so in the future, particularly as the level of individual penalties increases over time. It is also possible that by making changes or failing to make changes in the healthcare plans we offer, we will become less competitive in the market for our labor. Finally, continuing to implement the requirements of the Affordable Care Act is likely to impose additional administrative costs. The future costs and other effects of these or other new healthcare requirements cannot be determined with certainty, but they may continue to significantly increase our healthcare coverage costs and could materially adversely affect our financial results.. It is possible that legislation will be passed by the U.S. Congress and signed into law that repeals the Affordable Care Act, in whole or in part, and/or introduces a new form of health care reform. It is unclear at this point what the scope of such legislation would be and when it would become effective. Because of the uncertainty surrounding possible replacement health care reform legislation, we cannot predict with any certainty the likely impact of the Affordable Care Act's repeal or the adoption of any other health care reform legislation on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Whether or not there is alternative health care legislation enacted in the United States, there is likely to be significant disruption to the health care market in the coming months and years and the costs of our health care expenditures may increase.. 20. Legislation and regulations regarding our products and ingredients, including the nutritional content of our products, could impact customer preferences and negatively impact our financial results.. Changes in government regulation and consumer eating habits may impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu offerings, or require us to disclose the nutritional content of our menu offerings. For example, a number of states, counties and cities have enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to disclose certain nutritional information to customers, or have enacted legislation restricting the use of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. Furthermore the Affordable Care Act requires chain restaurants to publish calorie information on their menus and menu boards effective May 7, 2018. These and other requirements may increase our expenses, slow customers as they move through the line, or negatively influence the demand for our offerings; all of which can impact sales and profitability.. Compliance with current and future laws and regulations in a number of areas, including with respect to ingredients and nutritional content of our products, may be costly and time-consuming. Additionally, if consumer health regulations change significantly, we may be required to modify our menu offerings, and as a result, may experience higher costs or reduced demand associated with such changes. As some government authorities are increasing regulations regarding trans-fats and sodium, we may be required to limit or eliminate trans-fats from our menu offerings or reduce their sodium content. We may also be required to switch to higher cost ingredients, which may hinder our ability to operate in some markets or to offer our full menu in these markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, our business could also experience a material adverse effect.. Failure to obtain and maintain required licenses and permits or to comply with food control regulations could lead to the loss of our food service licenses and, thereby, harm our business.. We are required, as a restaurant business, under state, and local government regulations to obtain and maintain licenses, permits, and approvals to operate our businesses. Such regulations are subject to change from time to time. Any failure by us or our franchisees to obtain and maintain these licenses, permits, and approvals could adversely affect our financial results."
