[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The following risks and uncertainties, together with other information set forth in this Form 10-K, should be carefully considered by current and future investors in our common stock. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties presently unknown to us or currently deemed immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of one or more of these risks or uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition, and the results of our operations, which in turn could negatively impact the value of our common stock.. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices are volatile. A reduction or sustained decline in oil, natural gas and NGL prices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.. Oil, natural gas and NGLs are commodities, and their prices may fluctuate widely in response to market uncertainty and relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs. Historically, oil, natural gas and NGL prices have been volatile. For example, during the period from January 1, 2014 through February 28, 2018, the WTI spot price for oil declined from a high of $107.95 per Bbl on June 20, 2014, to $26.19 per Bbl on February 11, 2016, and the Henry Hub spot price for natural gas declined from a high of $8.15 per MMBtu on February 10, 2014, to a low of $1.49 per MMBtu on March 4, 2016. Likewise, NGLs, which are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics, have suffered significant recent declines in realized prices. The prices we receive for our oil, natural gas and NGL production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital, future rate of growth and carrying value of our properties. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control, which include the following:. • worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs;. • the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil, natural gas and NGLs;. • political and economic conditions in or affecting other producing regions or countries, including the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;. • actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, its members and state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls;. • the level of global exploration, development and production;. • the level of global inventories;. • prevailing prices on local price indexes in the area in which we operate;. • the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities;. • localized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability;. • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and transporting reserves;. • weather conditions and other natural disasters;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • expectations about future commodity prices; and. • U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. governmental regulation and taxes.. 24. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Lower commodity prices may reduce our cash flows and borrowing ability. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our ability to develop future reserves could be adversely affected. Furthermore, using lower prices in estimating proved reserves may result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes due to economic limits. In addition, sustained periods with oil and natural gas prices at levels lower than current West Texas Intermediate or Henry Hub strip prices and the resultant effect such prices may have on our drilling economics and our ability to raise capital may require us to re-evaluate and postpone or eliminate our development drilling, which could result in the reduction of some of our proved undeveloped reserves and related standardized measure. If we are required to curtail our drilling program, we may be unable to continue to hold leases that are scheduled to expire, which may further reduce our reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to finance planned capital expenditures.. Our acquisition and development projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our ability to access or grow production and reserves.. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue making substantial capital expenditures related to our acquisition and development projects. Our 2018 capital budget for drilling, completion and recompletion activities and facilities costs is expected to range from $560.0 million to $615.0 million, excluding potential acquisitions. In addition, our production costs may increase as we continue to use enhanced recovery techniques and other new drilling and completion technologies, which are capital intensive and may not produce oil and natural gas in paying quantities or at all. Further, we regularly evaluate potential acquisition opportunities as an important aspect of our growth strategy, and any such acquisitions we pursue could require substantial capital expenditures. We expect to fund our capital expenditures with cash on hand, cash generated by operations and borrowings under our credit facility; however, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities or the sale of assets. The issuance of additional indebtedness would require that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The issuance of additional equity securities would be dilutive to our other stockholders. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, oil, natural gas and NGL prices; actual drilling results; the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment; and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A reduction in commodity prices may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which would negatively impact our ability to grow production.. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:. • the prices at which our production is sold;. • our proved reserves;. • the level of hydrocarbons we are able to produce from existing wells;. • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;. • results of our hedging program;. • the levels of our operating expenses; and. • our ability to borrow under our credit facility and our ability to access the capital markets.. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our credit facility decrease as a result of lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If cash flow generated by our operations or available borrowings under our credit facility are not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our properties, which in turn could lead to a decline in our reserves and production, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Part of our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application.. Our operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. Risks that we face while drilling horizontal wells include the following:. • landing our wellbore in the desired drilling zone;. • staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation;. • running our casing the entire length of the wellbore; and. 25. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore.. Risks that we face while completing our wells include the following:. • the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages;. • the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations;. • the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage; and. • the effectiveness of the fracture stimulation process on reservoir rock.. In addition, certain of the new techniques we are adopting may cause irregularities or interruptions in production due to offset wells being shut in and the time required to drill and complete multiple wells before any such wells begin producing. If our drilling results are less than anticipated, the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as we anticipated, we could incur material write-downs of our oil and gas properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our development, acquisition and production activities, which are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil and natural gas production.. Our decisions to develop or purchase prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see \" - Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.\" In addition, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain.. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following:. • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements including limitations on wastewater disposal, additional regulation related to seismic activity, discharge of GHGs and limitations on hydraulic fracturing;. • pressure or irregularities in geological formations;. • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel or in obtaining materials required for our drilling activities, including drilling rigs and crews, fracture stimulation crews and equipment, pipe, chemicals, sand, water and other supplies;. • equipment failures, accidents or other unexpected operational events;. • lack of available and economic gathering and takeaway capacity, including gathering facilities and interconnecting transmission pipelines;. • adverse weather conditions;. • issues related to compliance with environmental regulations;. • environmental hazards, such as oil and natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;. • declines in oil and natural gas prices;. • limited availability of financing at acceptable terms;. • title problems; and. • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas.. For example, in 2017 we experienced completion delays related to frac fleet equipment reliability from our service providers, which resulted in increased completed well costs and reduced our total number of well completions. Furthermore, the results of any drilling in new or emerging formations are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production.. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill such locations.. 26. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our management team has specifically identified and scheduled certain drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas or oil from these or any other drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the drilling locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.. As of December 31, 2017, we had identified 2,083 gross horizontal drilling locations on our acreage based on approximately 880-foot spacing in an offset pattern with five to six wells across a 640-acre section, consisting of laterals with an average length of 9,094 feet. As a result of the limitations described above, we may be unable to drill many of our identified locations. In addition, we will require significant additional capital over a prolonged period in order to pursue the development of these locations, and we may not be able to raise or generate the capital required to do so. See \" - Our acquisition and development projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our ability to access or grow production and reserves.\" Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these locations may not be successful or result in our ability to add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of our estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business and results of operations. Additionally, if we curtail our drilling program, we may lose a portion of our acreage through lease expirations.. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. The process of estimating reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In order to prepare reserve estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds.. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable reserves may vary from our estimates. For instance, initial production rates reported by us or other operators may not be indicative of future or long-term production rates, our recovery efficiencies may be worse than expected and production declines may be greater than we estimate and may be more rapid and irregular when compared to initial production rates. In addition, we may adjust reserve estimates to reflect additional production history, results of development activities, current commodity prices and other existing factors. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves.. It should not be assumed that the present value of future net revenues from our reserves is the current market value of our estimated reserves. We generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from reserves on the 12-month average of the first-day-of-the-month pricing, and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. If spot prices are below such calculated amounts, using more recent prices in estimating proved reserves may result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes due to economic limits.. Unless we replace our reserves with new reserves and develop those reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations.. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless we conduct successful ongoing exploration and development activities or continually acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Our future reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we. 27. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under applicable debt instruments, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness obligations, including any future borrowings under our credit facility, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on future indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations.. Restrictions in our existing and future debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to engage in certain activities.. Our credit agreement contains a number of significant covenants, including restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • incur liens;. • make investments;. • make loans to others;. • merge or consolidate with another entity;. • sell assets;. • make certain payments;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • hedge commodity prices;. • hedge interest rates; and. • engage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the lenders.. In addition, our credit agreement requires us to maintain certain financial ratios or to reduce our indebtedness if we are unable to comply with such ratios. For example, as described in greater detail in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Credit Facility,\" we are required to maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.0 to 1.0, as defined by the Credit Agreement.. Further, under our credit agreement as of December 31, 2017, we were only permitted to hedge up to the greater of 85% of our production from proved reserves and 75% of our reasonably anticipated forecasted production for up to 24 months in the future, and up to the greater of 75% of our production from proved reserves and 50% of our reasonably anticipated production for 25 to 60 months in the future, provided that no hedges may have a term beyond five years.. The restrictions in our credit agreement may also limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants in our credit agreement impose on us.. A breach of any covenant in our credit agreement would result in a default under the applicable agreement after any applicable cure and grace periods. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness outstanding under. 28. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. our credit agreement and in a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, the indebtedness outstanding under other debt agreements. The accelerated indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us.. Any significant reduction in our borrowing base under our credit facility as a result of the periodic borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise may negatively impact our ability to fund our operations.. Our credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow up to a borrowing base amount, which the lenders, in their sole discretion, determine semiannually on April 1 and October 1, or during an elected quarterly redetermination. The borrowing base depends on, among other things, projected revenues from, and asset values of, the proved oil and natural gas properties securing our loan. The value of our proved reserves is dependent upon, among other things, the prevailing and expected market prices of the underlying commodities in our estimated reserves. See \" - Oil, natural gas and NGL prices are volatile. A reduction or sustained decline in oil, natural gas and NGL prices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments\" and \" - Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.\" During a borrowing base redetermination, the lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of the lenders holding 100% of the commitments. Our borrowing base was $425.0 million as of December 31, 2017. The most recent redetermination was completed in March 2018 and resulted in a borrowing base increase to $540.0 million.. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our credit facility as a result of a decrease in borrowing base due to the issuance of new indebtedness, the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination or an unwillingness or inability on the part of lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations and the inability of other lenders to provide additional funding to cover the defaulting lender's portion. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such a case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base. As a result, we may be unable to implement our drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out business plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our indebtedness.. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage, the primary term is extended through continuous drilling provisions or the leases are renewed.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 52% of our total net acreage was held by production or continuous drilling operations. The leases for our net acreage not held by production will expire at the end of their primary term unless production is established in paying quantities under the units containing these leases, the leases are held beyond their primary terms under continuous drilling provisions of the leases or the leases are renewed. If our leases expire and we are unable to renew the leases, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors.. Our derivative activities may not effectively mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility from our cash flows and could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings.. We enter into derivative instrument contracts for a portion of our oil production. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of any derivative instruments.. Derivative instruments also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:. • production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments;. • the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations;. • there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received; or. • there are issues with regard to legal enforceability of such instruments.. 29. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The use of derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into derivative instruments that require cash collateral and commodity prices or interest rates change in a manner adverse to us, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced which could limit our ability to make future capital expenditures and make payments on our indebtedness, and which could also limit the size of our borrowing base. Future collateral requirements will depend on arrangements with our counterparties, highly volatile oil and natural gas prices and interest rates. In addition, derivative arrangements could limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our commodity derivative contracts expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty's liquidity, which could make the counterparty unable to perform under the terms of the contract, and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the contract. We are unable to predict sudden changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. Even if we do accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions.. During periods of declining commodity prices, our derivative contract receivable positions generally increase, which increases our counterparty credit exposure. If the creditworthiness of our counterparties deteriorates and results in their nonperformance, we could incur a significant loss with respect to our commodity derivative contracts.. Adverse weather conditions and other natural disasters may negatively affect our operating results and our ability to conduct drilling activities.. Adverse weather conditions and other natural disasters may cause, among other things, increases in the costs of, and delays in, drilling or completing new wells, power failures, temporary shut-in of production and difficulties in the transportation of our oil, natural gas and NGLs. Any decreases in production due to poor weather conditions will have an adverse effect on our revenues, which will in turn negatively affect our cash flow from operations. For example, in 2017 industry infrastructure impacts from Hurricane Harvey caused a portion of our wells to be shut-in for a short period of time, which reduced production and revenue from such wells for that period.. Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water, and our ability to dispose of the water we produce. Restrictions on our ability to obtain and dispose water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Water is an essential component of deep shale oil and natural gas development during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Drought conditions in Texas have led governmental authorities to restrict the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to protect local water supplies. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations or dispose of or recycle water used in operations, or if the prices of water or water disposal increases dramatically, we may be unable to economically produce oil and natural gas, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our producing properties are located in the Delaware Basin, a sub-basin of the Permian Basin, in West Texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a single geographic area.. All of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Delaware Basin, a sub-basin of the Permian Basin, in West Texas. At December 31, 2017, all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, availability of equipment and personnel, water shortages or other drought related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or NGLs. For example, since our production originates near Midland, Texas, our realizations on sales of our oil production may be affected by the Midland-Cushing price differential, which reflects the difference between the price of crude at Midland, Texas, versus the price of crude at Cushing, Oklahoma, a major hub where oil production from Midland is often transported via pipeline. The price we currently realize on barrels of oil we sell is reduced by the value of the Midland-Cushing differential, which reached as high as $21 per barrel in August 2014. If the Midland-Cushing differential, or other price differentials pursuant to which our production is subject, were to widen due to oversupply or other factors, our revenue could be negatively impacted.. We are dependent on third-party pipeline and trucking systems to transport our production and gathering and processing systems to prepare our production. The lack of available capacity in these systems could interfere with our ability to market the oil and natural gas we produce, and could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations.. 30. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production getting to market. The marketability of our oil and natural gas and production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering, processing, pipeline and trucking systems. The amount of oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as a lack of contracted capacity on such systems. For example, on certain occasions we have experienced high line pressure at our tank batteries with occasional flaring due to the inability of the gas gathering systems in the areas in which we operate to support the increased production of natural gas in the Permian Basin. As a result, we may be required to shut in wells due to the inadequacy or unavailability of crude oil or natural gas pipelines or gathering system capacity. Any significant curtailment in gathering, processing or pipeline system capacity or lack of availability of transport would interfere with our ability to market the oil and natural gas we produce, and could materially and adversely affect the expected results of our drilling program, as well as our cash flow and results of operations.. The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation and other facilities, certain of which we do not control. If these facilities experience disruptions, our operations could be interrupted and our revenues reduced.. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities owned by third parties. Insufficient production from our wells to support the construction of pipeline facilities by our purchasers or a significant disruption in the availability of our or third-party transportation facilities or other production facilities could adversely impact our ability to deliver to market or produce our oil and natural gas and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations. If, in the future, we are unable, for any sustained period, to implement acceptable delivery or transportation arrangements or encounter production related difficulties, we may be required to shut in or curtail production. Any such shut in or curtailment, or an inability to obtain favorable terms for delivery of the oil and natural gas produced from our fields, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we typically obtain title opinions prior to commencing drilling operations on a lease or in a unit, the failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property.. The development of our estimated PUDs may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our estimated PUDs may not be ultimately developed or produced.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 54% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Development of these proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Delays in the development of our reserves, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the value of our estimated PUDs and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our PUDs as unproved reserves. Further, we may be required to write-down our PUDs if we do not drill those wells within five years after their respective dates of booking.. If commodity prices decrease to a level such that our future undiscounted cash flows from our properties are less than their carrying value, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our properties.. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on prevailing commodity prices and specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write-down the carrying value of our properties. We may incur noncash impairment charges in the future. Impairment charges do not affect cash flow from operating activities, but do adversely affect our net income and various components of our balance sheet.. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 31. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. We depend upon several significant purchasers for the sale of most of our oil, natural gas and NGL production.. The availability of a ready market for any oil and/or natural gas we produce depends on numerous factors beyond the control of our management, including but not limited to the extent of domestic production and imports of oil, the proximity and capacity of pipelines, the availability of skilled labor, materials and equipment, the effect of state and federal regulation of oil and natural gas production and federal regulation of oil and gas sold in interstate commerce. In addition, we depend upon several significant purchasers for the sale of most of our oil and natural gas production. See \"Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties - Major Customers.\" We cannot assure you that we will continue to have ready access to suitable markets for our future oil and natural gas production.. Our operations may be exposed to significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and occupational health and safety requirements applicable to our business activities.. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge, release or emission of materials into the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of a permit or other approval before conducting regulated activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. Such enforcement actions often involve taking difficult and costly compliance measures or corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, natural resource damages, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. In addition, we may experience delays in obtaining, or be unable to obtain, required permits, which may delay or interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue.. Certain environmental laws impose strict as well as joint and several liability for costs required to remediate and restore sites where hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or solid wastes have been stored or released. We may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly operated by us or facilities of third parties that received waste generated by our operations regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In connection with certain acquisitions, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us. Moreover, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. The trend of more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the crude oil and natural gas industry could continue, resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability. To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restricts drilling or imposes more stringent and costly operating, waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our development activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of:. • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable releases of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater, air and shoreline contamination;. • abnormally pressured formations;. • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse;. • fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines;. • personal injuries and death;. • natural disasters; and. 32. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • terrorist attacks targeting oil and natural gas related facilities and infrastructure.. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for:. • injury or loss of life;. • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. • pollution and other environmental damage;. • regulatory investigations and penalties;. • suspension of our operations; and. • repair and remediation costs.. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Properties that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.. Properties that we decide to drill that do not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of micro-seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including:. • unexpected drilling conditions;. • title problems;. • pressure or lost circulation in formations;. • equipment failure or accidents;. • adverse weather conditions;. • compliance with environmental and other governmental or contractual requirements; and. • increases in the cost of, shortages or delays in the availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or workover rigs, equipment and services.. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow.. In the future we may make acquisitions of assets or businesses that complement or expand our current business. However, there is no guarantee we will be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. In the event we are able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms. Competition for acquisitions may also increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions.. The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our credit agreement imposes certain limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions. Our credit agreement also limits our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to engage in acquisitions of businesses or assets.. 33. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions of properties.. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:. • recoverable reserves;. • future oil and natural gas prices and their applicable differentials;. • operating costs; and. • potential environmental and other liabilities.. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an \"as-is\" basis.. In addition, acquisitions can change the nature of our operations depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or may be in different geographic locations than our existing properties. These factors can increase the risks associated with an acquisition. Acquisitions also present risks associated with the additional indebtedness that may be required to finance the purchase price, and any related increase in interest expense or other related charges.. Certain of our properties are subject to land use restrictions, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our business.. Certain of our properties are subject to land use restrictions, including city ordinances, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our business. Such restrictions could affect, among other things, our access to and the permissible uses of our facilities as well as the manner in which we produce oil and natural gas and may restrict or prohibit drilling in general. The costs we incur to comply with such restrictions may be significant in nature, and we may experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of development activities and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling of wells.. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.. The demand for drilling rigs, pipe and other equipment and supplies (particularly sand and other proppants), as well as for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry, can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Our operations are concentrated in areas in which industry activity had increased rapidly, and as a result, demand for such drilling rigs, equipment and personnel, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas, had increased, as did the costs for those items. To the extent that commodity prices improve in the future, any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services, resources and facilities access necessary for us to resume or increase our development activities could result in production volumes being below our forecasted volumes. In addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and profitability. Furthermore, if we are unable to secure a sufficient number of drilling rigs at reasonable costs, we may not be able to drill all of our acreage before our leases expire.. We could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. These increases could reduce our profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned.. Historically, our capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, natural gas and NGL prices. These cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond our control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that we and our vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. These costs may rise faster than increases in our revenue if commodity prices rise, or they may rise without a corresponding increase in commodity prices, thereby negatively impacting our profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. This impact may be magnified to the extent that our ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by our derivative activities.. 34. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.. Under the EP Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and the NGPA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional operations to FERC annual reporting and posting requirements. We also must comply with the anti-market manipulation rules enforced by FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability, as described in \"Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties - Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry.\". A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of the natural gas assets we use by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies could result in increased regulation of the natural gas assets we use, which could cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase.. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from the jurisdiction of FERC. We believe that the natural gas pipelines we use meet the traditional tests FERC has used to determine if a pipeline is a gathering pipeline and are, therefore, not subject to FERC jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of substantial ongoing litigation and, over time, FERC policy concerning where to draw the line between activities it regulates and activities excluded from its regulation has changed. The classification and regulation of the gathering facilities we use are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress. State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements and complaint-based rate regulation. In recent years, FERC has taken a more light-handed approach to regulation of the gathering activities of interstate pipeline transmission companies, which has resulted in a number of such companies transferring gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. As a result of these activities, natural gas gathering may begin to receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels.. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce, while potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. See \"Items 1 and 2. - Business and Properties - Regulation of Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health Matters - Regulation of \"Greenhouse Gas\" Emissions.\". Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells and adversely affect our production.. See \"Items 1 and 2. - Business and Properties - Regulation of Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health Matters - Hydraulic Fracturing Activities.\". Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity could restrict our drilling and production activities, as well as our ability to dispose of produced water gathered from such activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. State and federal regulatory agencies recently have focused on a possible connection between the disposal of wastewater in underground injection wells and the increased occurrence of seismic activity, and regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and natural gas activity and induced seismicity. For example, in 2016, the Texas state legislature provided nearly $5 million to the University of Texas to develop and manage an earthquake monitoring system in Texas. In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed in other states, most recently in Oklahoma, alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. In response to these concerns, regulators in some states are seeking to impose additional requirements, including requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, Oklahoma's Corporation Commissions Oil and Gas Division is implementing an ongoing response plan that includes reducing the amount of wastewater into certain injection areas. In March 2016, the response plan was updated to target western Oklahoma's Arbuckle disposal wells. If the permittee or an applicant of a disposal well permit fails to demonstrate that the produced water or other fluids are confined to the disposal zone or if scientific. 35. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. data indicates such a disposal well is likely to be or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the agency may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well.. We dispose of large volumes of produced water gathered from our drilling and production operations pursuant to permits issued to us by governmental authorities overseeing such disposal activities. While these permits are issued pursuant to existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change, which could result in the imposition of more stringent operating constraints or new monitoring and reporting requirements, owing to, among other things, concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such gathering or disposal activities. The adoption and implementation of any new laws or regulations that restrict our ability to use hydraulic fracturing or dispose of produced water gathered from our drilling and production activities by limiting volumes, disposal rates, disposal well locations or otherwise or requiring us to shut down disposal wells, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil or natural gas and secure trained personnel.. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our success depends on key members of our management and our ability to attract and retain experienced technical and other professional personnel.  The termination of employment of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect operations.. Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of our senior management and key employees. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, competition for experienced technical and other professional personnel remains strong. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Also, the loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.. Borrowings under our credit facility bear interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase although the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness and for other purposes would decrease.. In addition, our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results.. The recently enacted U.S. tax reform legislation as well as future U.S. tax legislation could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law Public Law No. 115-97, a comprehensive tax reform bill commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as. 36. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. amended. The Tax Act, among other things, (i) permanently reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate, (ii) repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax, (iii) eliminates the deduction for certain domestic production activities, (iv) imposes new limitations on the utilization of net operating losses, and (v) provides for more general changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to cost recovery rules and to the deductibility of interest expense, which may impact the taxation of oil and gas companies. The Tax Act is complex and far-reaching and we cannot predict with certainty the resulting impact its enactment has on us. The ultimate impact of the Tax Act may differ from our estimates due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by us as well as additional regulatory guidance that may be issued and any such changes in interpretations or assumptions could adversely affect our business and financial condition. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional information.. In addition, from time to time, legislation has been proposed that, if enacted into law, would make significant changes to U.S. federal and state income tax laws, including (i) the elimination of the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs, (ii) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties and (iii) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. While these specific changes are not included in the Tax Act, no accurate prediction can be made as to whether any such legislative changes will be proposed or enacted in the future or, if enacted, what the specific provisions or the effective date of any such legislation would be. The elimination of such U.S. federal tax deductions, as well as any other changes to or the imposition of new federal, state, or local taxes (including the imposition of, or increases in production, severance or similar taxes) could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Our use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations.. Even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical. In addition, the use of advanced technologies, such as 3-D seismic, requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of such expenditures.. Restrictions on drilling activities intended to protect certain species of wildlife may adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in areas where we operate.. Oil and natural gas operations in our operating areas may be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions on drilling activities designed to protect various wildlife. Seasonal restrictions may limit our ability to operate in protected areas and can intensify competition for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages when drilling is allowed. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations or materially increase our operating and capital costs. Permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered species could prohibit drilling in certain areas or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures. The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where we operate could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on our activities that could have a material and adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce our reserves.. Laws regulating the derivatives market could adversely affect our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.. The Dodd-Frank Act established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC and the SEC have promulgated rules, and are in the process of promulgating other rules, required to implement the derivatives regulatory provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Among the rules currently proposed for adoption by the CFTC are proposed rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and economically equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. These new position limit rules are not yet final, and the impact of the final position rules on us is uncertain at this time.. The Dodd-Frank Act also made the clearing of swaps over a derivatives clearing organization mandatory and the execution of cleared swaps over a board of trade or swap execution facility mandatory, subject to certain exemptions. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing. As of the date hereof, the CFTC has not yet issued notices designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing. Although we expect to qualify for the exception from mandatory clearing available to commercial end-users of swaps, if we were to have to clear any swap we enter, we might not have the same flexibility we have with the bilateral swaps we now. 37. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. enter and would have to post margin with the derivatives clearing organization for such cleared swaps, which could adversely our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect our cash flow, could adversely affect our liquidity and could reduce cash available to us for capital expenditures.. Certain banking regulators and the CFTC have recently adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. Although we expect to qualify for exemptions from such margin requirements available to certain users of swaps who are non-financial end-users entering into uncleared swaps to hedge their commercial risks with respect to any swaps we enter for such purpose, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. If we do not qualify for an exemption from the margin rules, we could have to post initial and variation margin with the counterparties to our swaps, which could impact our liquidity and reduce cash available to us for capital expenditures, therefore reducing our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect our cash flow.. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act's swap regulatory provisions and the related rules of the CFTC and SEC on our business will not be known until all of the rules to be adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act have been adopted and fully implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. The Dodd-Frank Act, the existing rules and any new rules could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act's swap regulatory provisions and the related rules, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act's swap regulatory provisions were intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing rules is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on us and our financial condition.. In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions have implemented or may implement regulations with respect to the derivatives market, some of which impose mechanisms and restrictions similar to those arising under the Dodd-Frank Act and related rules. If we enter into swaps with counterparties based in foreign jurisdictions, we may become subject to such regulations, which could have adverse effects on our operations similar to the possible effects on our operations of the Dodd-Frank Act's swap regulatory provisions and the rules of the CFTC, SEC and U.S. banking regulators.. We operate in a litigious environment and may be involved in legal proceeding that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Like many oil and gas companies, we are from time to time involved in various legal and other proceedings, such as title, royalty or contractual disputes, regulatory compliance matters, and personal injury or property damage matters, in the ordinary course of our business. Such legal proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted. Regardless of the outcome, such proceedings could have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel and other factors. In addition, it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in liability, penalties or sanctions, as well as judgments, consent decrees or orders requiring a change in our business practices, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Accruals for such liability, penalties or sanctions may be insufficient. Judgments and estimates to determine accruals or range of losses related to legal and other proceedings could change from one period to the next, and such changes could be material.. The standardized measure of our estimated reserves is not an accurate estimate of the current fair value of our estimated reserves.. Standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and natural gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. Standardized measure requires the use of specific pricing as required by the SEC as well as operating and development costs prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and natural gas production because of varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and natural gas properties. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flow may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received.. In addition, our predecessor generally passed through its taxable income to its owners for income tax purposes and was not subject to U.S. federal, state or local income taxes other than franchise tax in the State of Texas. Accordingly, our standardized measure as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 does not provide for U.S. federal, state or local income taxes other. 38. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. than franchise tax in the State of Texas. However, following our corporate reorganization, we are subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes, which is reflected in the standardized measure computation as of December 31, 2017.. Therefore, the standardized measure of our estimated reserves included in this Form 10-K should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current fair value of our proved reserves.. Our business is difficult to evaluate because we have a limited operating history, and we are susceptible to the potential difficulties associated with rapid growth and expansion.. JPE LLC was formed in 2013. As a result, there is only limited historical financial and operating information available upon which to base your evaluation of our performance.. In addition, we have grown rapidly over the last several years. Our management believes future success depends on our ability to manage the rapid growth we have experienced and the demands from increased responsibility on management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties:. • increased responsibilities for our executive level personnel;. • increased administrative burden;. • increased capital requirements; and. • increased organizational challenges common to large, expansive operations.. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully manage these potential difficulties. The historical financial information incorporated herein is not necessarily indicative of the results that may be realized in the future. In addition, our operating history is limited and the results from our current producing wells are not necessarily indicative of success from our future drilling operations.. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or may be forced by competitive pressures to implement those new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other oil and natural gas companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and that may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures or implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business.. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the United States or other countries may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. If any of these events occur, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on demand for our services and causing a reduction in our revenues. Oil and natural gas related facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our customers' operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all.. Our business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats and other disruptions.. As an oil and natural gas producer, we face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or third-party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. The potential for such security threats has subjected our operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, our implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited. 39. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. These events could lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability.. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Quantum and its affiliates have the ability to direct the voting of a majority of our common stock, and its interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, Quantum beneficially owned approximately 68.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Quantum is able to control matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, changes to our organizational documents and significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership makes it unlikely that any other holder or group of holders of our common stock will be able to affect the way we are managed or the direction of our business. The interests of Quantum with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, such as future acquisitions, financings and other corporate opportunities and attempts to acquire us, may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Given this concentrated ownership, Quantum would have to approve any potential acquisition of us. In addition, certain of our directors are currently employees of Quantum. These directors' duties as employees of Quantum may conflict with their duties as our directors, and the resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our or your best interest. Furthermore, we are a party to a stockholders' agreement with Quantum, JPE Management Holdings LLC and certain current and former officers and employees. Among other things, the stockholders' agreement provides that JPE Management Holdings LLC and the current and former officers and employees party thereto will vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the direction of Quantum. Further, the stockholders' agreement provides Quantum with the right to designate a certain number of nominees to our board of directors so long as it and its affiliates collectively beneficially own at least 5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. Quantum continues to control a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") listing standards. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including the requirement (1) that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities and (3) that we have a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities. We rely on some or all of these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors or a nominating or governance committee, and our compensation committee does not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.. Certain of our directors have significant duties with, and spend significant time serving, entities that may compete with us in seeking acquisitions and business opportunities and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating time or pursuing business opportunities.. Certain of our directors, who are and will be responsible for managing the direction of our operations and acquisition activities, hold positions of responsibility with other entities (including affiliates of Quantum) that are in the business of identifying and acquiring oil and natural gas properties. For example, five of our directors, Messrs. Davidson, Linn,. 40. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. VanLoh, Jr., Verma and Webster, serve as Venture Partner, Senior Advisor, Founder and Chief Executive Officer, President and Managing Director, respectively, of Quantum Energy Partners, which is in the business of investing in oil and natural gas companies with independent management teams that also seek to acquire oil and natural gas properties. The existing positions held by these directors may give rise to fiduciary or other duties that are in conflict with the duties they owe to us. These directors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as to the other entities with which they are or may become affiliated. Due to these existing and potential future affiliations, they may present potential business opportunities to other entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. They may also decide that certain opportunities are more appropriate for other entities with which they are affiliated, and as a result, they may elect not to present those opportunities to us. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor.. Quantum and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us, and the corporate opportunity provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation could enable Quantum to benefit from corporate opportunities that might otherwise be available to us.. Our governing documents provide that Quantum and its affiliates (including portfolio investments of Quantum and its affiliates) are not restricted from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In particular, subject to the limitations of applicable law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will, among other things:. • permit Quantum and its affiliates and our non-employee directors to conduct business that competes with us and to make investments in any kind of property in which we may make investments; and. • provide that if Quantum or any of its affiliates who is also one of our non-employee directors becomes aware of a potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter, they will have no duty to communicate or offer that opportunity to us.. Quantum or its affiliates may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities (such as acquisition opportunities) and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they have invested, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability to pursue such opportunity. Further, such businesses may choose to compete with us for these opportunities, possibly causing these opportunities to not be available to us or causing them to be more expensive for us to pursue. In addition, Quantum and its affiliates may dispose of oil and natural gas properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, our renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to Quantum and its affiliates could adversely impact our business or prospects if attractive business opportunities are procured by such parties for their own benefit rather than for ours.. Quantum and its affiliates are established participants in the oil and natural gas industry and have resources greater than ours, which may make it more difficult for us to compete with such persons with respect to commercial activities as well as for potential acquisitions. We cannot assure you that any conflicts that may arise between us and our stockholders, on the one hand, and Quantum, on the other hand, will be resolved in our favor. As a result, competition from Quantum and its affiliates could adversely impact our results of operations.. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies.. We are classified as an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to, among other things: (i) provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; (ii) comply with any new requirements adopted by the PCAOB requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer; (iii) provide certain disclosures regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies; or (iv) hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, although we will lose that status sooner if we have more than $1.0 billion of revenues at the end of any fiscal year, have more than $700.0 million in market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates measured as of June 30, or issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period.. To the extent that we rely on any of the exemptions available to emerging growth companies, stockholders and investors will receive less information about our executive compensation and internal control over financial reporting than issuers that. 41. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. are not emerging growth companies. If some investors find our common stock to be less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline."
