[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. JHG faces numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors that are substantial and inherent to its business, including market and investment performance risks, business and strategic risks, operational and technology risks, legal and regulatory risks, risks related to taxes and Jersey company risks. The following are significant factors that could affect JHG's business.. Market and Investment Performance Risks. JHG's results of operations and financial condition are primarily dependent on the value, composition and relative investment performance of its investment products.. Any decrease in the value, relative investment performance or amount of AUM will cause a decline in revenue and negatively impact operating results and the financial condition of JHG. AUM may decline for various reasons, many of which are not under the control of JHG.. Factors that could cause AUM and revenue to decline include the following:. <U+0095> Declines in equity markets.  JHG's AUM are concentrated in the U.S. and European equity markets. Equity securities may decline in value as a result of many factors, including an issuer's actual or perceived financial condition and growth prospects, investor perception of an industry or sector, changes in currency exchange rates, changes in regulations and geopolitical and economic risks. Declines in the equity markets as a whole, or in the market segments in which JHG investment products are concentrated, may cause AUM to decrease.      <U+0095> Declines in fixed income markets.  Fixed income investment products may decline in value as a result of many factors, principally increases in interest rates, changes in currency exchange rates, changes in relative yield among instruments with different maturities, geopolitical and general economic risks, available liquidity in the markets in which a security trades, an issuer's actual or perceived creditworthiness, or an issuer's ability to meet its obligations.      <U+0095> Relative investment performance.  JHG's investment products are often judged on their performance as compared to benchmark indices or peer groups, as well as being judged on an absolute return basis. Any period of underperformance of investment products relative to peers may result in the loss of existing assets and affect the ability of JHG to attract new assets. In addition, as of December 31, 2017 approximately 17% of JHG's AUM were subject to performance fees. Performance fees are based either on each product's investment performance as compared to an established benchmark index or on its positive absolute return over a specified period of time. If JHG investment products subject to performance fees underperform their respective benchmark index or produce a negative absolute return for a defined period, the revenue and thus results of operations and financial condition of JHG may be adversely affected. In addition, performance fees subject JHG's revenue to increased volatility. Further, certain JHG U.S. mutual fund contracts, representing approximately 12% of JHG's AUM at December 31, 2017, are subject to fulcrum performance fees and as a result, performance fees earned can be negative as well as positive.. JHG's revenue and profitability would be adversely affected by any reduction in assets under management as a result of redemptions and other withdrawals from the funds and accounts managed.. Redemptions or withdrawals may be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities or as a consequence of damage to JHG's reputation, among other factors) reducing their investments in funds and accounts in general or in the market segments on which JHG focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance of the funds and accounts managed by JHG; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. Poor performance relative to. 11. Table of Contents. competing products provided by other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales, increased redemptions of fund shares and the loss of or reduction in AUM in private institutional accounts, with corresponding decreases in revenue. Failure of the JHG funds and accounts to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of the Group.. Changes in the value of seeded investment products could affect JHG's non-operating income or earnings and could increase the volatility of its earnings.. JHG has a significant seed portfolio and periodically adds new investment strategies to its investment product offerings, and provides the initial cash investment or \"seeding\" to facilitate the launch of the product. JHG may also provide substantial supplemental capital to an existing investment product in order to accelerate the growth of a strategy and attract outside investment in the product. A decline in the valuation of these seeded investments could negatively impact JHG's earnings and financial condition.. Disruption to the operations of third parties whose functions are integral to the Group's ETNs and ETFs platforms, collectively referred to as ETPs, may adversely affect the prices at which ETPs trade, particularly during periods of market volatility.. The trading price of an ETPs shares fluctuates continuously throughout trading hours. While an ETPs creation/redemption feature and the arbitrage mechanism are designed to make it more likely that the ETP's shares normally will trade at prices close to the ETFs net asset value (\"NAV\"), exchange prices may deviate significantly from the ETPs NAV. ETP market prices are subject to numerous potential risks, including trading halts invoked by a stock exchange, inability or unwillingness of market markers, authorized participants, settlement systems or other market participants to perform functions necessary for an ETPs arbitrage mechanism to function effectively, or significant market volatility. If market events lead to instances where ETPs trade at prices that deviate significantly from an ETPs NAV, or trading halts are invoked by the relevant stock exchange or market, investors may lose confidence in ETP products and redeem their holdings, which may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Illiquidity in certain securities in which JHG invests may negatively impact the financial condition of the Group's investment products, and may impede the ability of JHG funds to effect redemptions.. JHG is exposed to the risk that some of its funds or mandates invest in certain securities or other assets in which the secondary trading market is illiquid or in which there is no secondary trading market at all. Illiquidity may occur with respect to the securities of a specific issuer, of issuers within a specific industry or sector, of issuers within a specific geographic region or regions, with respect to an asset class or an investment type, or with respect to the market as a whole. An illiquid trading market may increase market volatility and may make it impossible for funds or mandates to sell investments promptly without suffering a loss. This may have an adverse impact on the investment performance of such funds and mandates and on the AUM, revenues and results of operations of JHG.. Investors in certain funds managed by JHG have contractual terms that provide for a shorter notice period than the time period during which these funds may be able to sell underlying investments within the fund. This liquidity mismatch may be exacerbated during periods of market illiquidity and, in circumstances in which there are high levels of investor redemptions, it may be necessary for JHG to impose restrictions on redeeming investors or suspend redemptions. Such actions may increase the risk of legal claims by investors, regulatory investigation and/or fines and adversely affect the reputation of JHG.. 12. Table of Contents. JHG could be adversely impacted by changes in assumptions used in calculating pension assets and liabilities.. JHG provides retirement benefits for its current and former employees in the UK through the Janus Henderson Group Pension Scheme (the \"UK Pension Scheme\"). The UK Pension Scheme operates a number of defined benefit sections, which closed to new entrants on November 15, 1999, and a money purchase section. As of December 31, 2014, the UK Pension Scheme had a funding deficit of £39.2 million on a technical provisions basis. The Group has agreed with the trustees of the UK Pension Scheme to make contributions of $11.4 million (£8.4 million) per year for four years beginning in 2017 to recover the deficit. JHG may be required to increase its contributions in the future to cover any increased funding shortfall and/or expenses in the UK Pension Scheme, which could adversely impact JHG's results and financial condition.. The following issues could adversely affect the funding of the defined benefits under the UK Pension Scheme and materially affect JHG's funding obligations: (i) poorer than anticipated investment performance of pension fund investments; (ii) the trustees of the UK Pension Scheme switching investment strategy to one with a lower weighting of return-seeking assets; (iii) changes in the corporate bond yields which are used in the measurement of the UK Pension Scheme's liabilities; (iv) longer life expectancy (which will make pensions payable for longer and therefore more expensive to provide, whether paid directly from the UK Pension Scheme or secured by the purchase of annuities); (v) adverse annuity rates (which tend, in particular, to depend on prevailing interest rates and life expectancy), as these will make it more expensive to secure pensions with an insurance company; (vi) a change in the actuarial assumptions by reference to which JHG's contributions are assessed, for example changes to assumptions for long term price inflation; (vii) any increase in the risk-based levy assessed by and payable to the Pension Protection Fund by the UK Pension Scheme; (viii) other events occurring which make past service benefits more expensive than predicted in the actuarial assumptions by reference to which JHG's past contributions were assessed; (ix) changes to the regulatory regime for funding defined benefit pension schemes in the UK; and (x) the UK Pensions Regulator exercising its power to trigger a winding up of the UK Pension Scheme thereby triggering a buy-out debt on the employers or the UK Pensions Regulator using its powers under the Pensions Act 2004 to make other members of the JHG group liable for any deficit in the UK Pension Scheme's funding (although, in practice, it is assumed that the Pensions Regulator would be unlikely to exercise these powers while JHG continues to fund the UK Pension Scheme appropriately).. The global scope of JHG's business subjects the Group to currency exchange rate risk that may adversely impact revenue and income.. JHG generates a substantial portion of its revenue in pounds sterling, euro and Australian dollars. As a result, JHG is subject to foreign currency exchange risk relative to the USD, JHG's financial reporting currency, through its non-U.S. operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rates to the U.S. dollar may affect JHG's financial results from one period to the next. In addition, the Group has risk associated with the foreign exchange revaluation of balances held by certain subsidiaries for which the local currency is different from the Group's functional currency.. JHG could be impacted by counterparty or client defaults.. In periods of significant market volatility, the deteriorating financial condition of one financial institution may materially and adversely impact the performance of others. JHG, and the funds and accounts it manages, have exposure to many different counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties across the financial industry. JHG, and the funds and accounts it manages, may be exposed to credit, operational or other risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client, or in the event of other unrelated systemic market failures.. 13. Table of Contents. Business and Strategic Risks. JHG may fail to successfully implement a strategy for the combined business, which could negatively impact the Group's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition.. Through the combination of JCG and Henderson, the Group intends to establish an independent, active asset manager with a globally relevant brand, footprint, investment proposition and client service. No assurance can be given that the Group will successfully achieve this objective or that this objective will lead to increased revenue and net income, or to the creation of shareholder value. The failure to successfully implement a strategy for JHG could adversely affect the Group's AUM, results of operations and financial condition.. JHG operates in a highly competitive environment and revenue from fees may be reduced.. The investment management business is highly competitive. In addition, established firms as well as new entrants to the asset management industry have, in recent years, expanded their application of technology, including through the use of robo-advisers, in providing services to clients. JHG's traditional fee structures may be subject to downward pressure due to these factors. Moreover, in recent years there has been a trend toward lower fees in the investment management industry, as evidenced by the movement toward passively managed mutual funds and the growth of lower cost funds such as exchange traded, smart beta and quant funds. Fees for actively managed investment products may come under increased pressure if such products fail to outperform returns for comparable passively managed products or as a consequence of regulatory intervention. Fee reductions on existing or future new business as well as changes in regulations pertaining to fees could adversely affect the Group's results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, JHG will compete with investment management companies on the basis of investment performance, fees, diversity of products, distribution capability, reputation and the ability to develop new investment products to meet the changing needs of investors. Failure to adequately compete could adversely affect the Group's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition.. The Group's results are dependent on its ability to attract and retain key personnel.. The investment management business is highly dependent on the ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and often highly specialized technical, executive, sales and investment management personnel. The market for qualified investment and sales professionals is extremely competitive and is characterized by the frequent movement of portfolio managers, analysts and salespeople among different firms. Any changes to management structure, shifts in corporate culture, changes to corporate governance authority, or adjustments or reductions to compensation could affect the Group's ability to retain key personnel and could result in legal claims. If JHG is unable to retain key personnel, particularly those personnel responsible for managing client funds that account for a high proportion of JHG's revenue, it could adversely affect the Group's AUM, results of operations and financial condition.. The Group is dependent upon third-party distribution channels to access clients and potential clients.. JHG's ability to market and distribute its investment products is significantly dependent on access to the client base of insurance companies, defined contribution plan administrators, securities firms, broker-dealers, financial advisors, multi-managers, banks and other distribution channels. These companies generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and competitive with, products offered by JHG. In addition, JHG's existing relationships with third-party distributors and access to new distributors could be adversely affected by recent consolidation within the financial services industry. Consolidation may result in increased distribution costs, a reduction in the. 14. Table of Contents. number of third parties distributing JHG's investment products or increased competition to access third-party distribution channels. The inability to access clients through third-party distribution channels could adversely affect the Group's business prospects, AUM, results of operations and financial condition.. The global scope of JHG's business subjects the Group to market-specific political, economic and other risks that may adversely impact the Group's revenue and income generated overseas.. The Group's global portfolios and revenue derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss as a result of political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to non-U.S. ownership. Political events in any country or region could result in significant declines in equity and/or fixed income securities exposed to such a country or region and, to the extent that JHG has a concentration of AUM in such a country or region could result in a material adverse effect on the AUM, results of operations and financial condition of the combined company. In addition, international trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the U.S. As the Group's business grows in non-U.S. markets, any ongoing and future business, political, economic or social unrest affecting these markets may have a negative impact on the long-term investment climate in these and other areas and, as a result, on JHG's AUM and the corresponding revenue and income generated from these markets may be negatively affected.. Harm to JHG's reputation or poor investment performance of JHG's products could reduce the level of assets under management or affect sales, potentially negatively impacting the Group's revenue and net income. JHG's reputation is critical to the success of the Group.. JHG believes that its brand name is well received both in the asset management industry and with its clients, reflecting the fact that the brand, like the business, is based in part on trust and confidence. If the reputation of JHG is harmed, existing clients may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, funds advised by JHG, or funds may terminate or reduce AUM under their management agreements with JHG, which could reduce the amount of AUM of the Group and cause the Group to suffer a corresponding loss in revenue and income. The investment performance of JHG, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client services, is also critical to the success of the business. Strong investment performance has historically stimulated sales of JHG investment products. Poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products has in the past, and could in the future, lead to a decrease in sales of investment products managed by JHG and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of AUM and reducing management fees. No assurance can be given that past or present investment performance in the investment products JHG manages will be indicative of future performance. Any poor investment performance may negatively impact the revenue and net income of JHG. The reputation of JHG could also be damaged by factors such as litigation, regulatory action, loss of key personnel, misconduct, operational failures (including any failures during the integration process), mismanagement, loss of client data, fraud (by employees or third parties), failure to manage conflicts of interest or satisfy fiduciary responsibilities, and negative publicity or press speculation (whether or not any such allegations or claims are valid or ultimately disproved, dismissed or withdrawn). Reputational harm or poor investment performance may cause JHG to lose current clients and it may be unable to continue to attract new clients or develop new business. If JHG fails to address, or appears to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm or poor investment performance, it may be unsuccessful. 15. Table of Contents. in repairing any existing harm to its reputation or performance and the Group's future business prospects would likely be affected.. JHG has significant goodwill and intangible assets that are subject to impairment.. At December 31, 2017, JHG's goodwill and intangible assets totaled $4.7 billion. The value of these assets may not be realized for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, significant redemptions, loss of clients, damage to brand name and unfavorable economic conditions. JHG has recorded goodwill and intangible asset impairments in the past and could incur similar charges in the future. Under accounting pronouncements generally accepted in the United States of America (\"GAAP\"), goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are tested for impairment annually or more often if an event or circumstance indicates that an impairment loss may have been incurred. Other intangible assets with finite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment whenever there is an indication of impairment. Should such reviews indicate impairment, a reduction of the carrying value of the intangible asset could occur, resulting in a charge that may, in turn, adversely affect JHG's AUM, results of operations and financial condition.. JHG's businesses are dependent on investment management agreements that are subject to termination, non-renewal or reductions in fees.. JHG derives revenue from investment management agreements with investment funds, institutional and other investors. With respect to investment management agreements with U.S. mutual funds, these agreements may be terminated by either party with notice, or in the event of an \"assignment\" (as defined in the Investment Company Act), and must be approved and renewed annually by the independent members of each fund's board of directors or trustees or its shareowners, as required by law. In addition, the board of directors or trustees of certain investment funds and institutional and other investors generally may terminate their investment management agreements upon written notice for any reason and without penalty. Such U.S. mutual funds, investments funds or other investors may choose to exercise such termination rights as a result of the uncertainty caused by the Merger or if the employees with whom they have a relationship leave the business during or following the integration process. The termination of or failure to renew one or more of these agreements or the reduction of the fee rates applicable to such agreements could have a material adverse effect on the Group's AUM, results of operations and financial condition.. Integration efforts related to the Merger are ongoing and JHG may face significant challenges in implementing such integration.. Certain integration processes are complex, time-consuming and ongoing and the Group may face significant challenges implementing such integration in a timely manner.. Failure to properly address conflicts of interest could harm JHG's reputation, business and results of operations.. JHG's business will require continuously managing actual and potential conflicts of interest, including situations where the Group's services to a particular client conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client or those of JHG. The risk of actual or potential conflicts of interest occurring may be increased as a result of the Merger and it is possible that conflicts between aspects of Janus's and Henderson's existing businesses will be identified during the integration process. The willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected if the Group fails, or appears to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. In addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions.. 16. Table of Contents. Operational and Technology Risks. JHG could be subject to losses and reputational harm if the Group, or its agents, fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information or as a result of cyberattacks.. JHG will be dependent on the continued effectiveness of its information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities to protect its computer and telecommunications systems and the data that resides in or is transmitted through such systems.. As part of JHG's normal operations, the Group maintains and transmits confidential information about its clients and employees as well as proprietary information relating to its business operations. JHG maintains a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data, is either prevented or detected on a timely basis. Nevertheless, all technology systems remain vulnerable to unauthorized access and may be corrupted by cyberattacks, computer viruses or other malicious software code, the nature of which threats are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated. In addition, authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. Although JHG takes precautions to password protect and encrypt its mobile electronic hardware, if such hardware is stolen, misplaced or left unattended, it may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by JHG. Breach or other failure of JHG's technology systems, including those of third parties with which the Group does business, or failure to timely and effectively identify and respond to any such breach or failure, could result in the loss of valuable information, liability for stolen assets or information, remediation costs to repair damage caused by the incident, additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents and litigation costs resulting from the incident. Moreover, loss of confidential customer identification information could harm JHG's reputation, result in the termination of contracts by the Group's existing customers and subject the Group to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. The increasing prevalence and sophistication of cyberattacks generally and the heightened profile of JHG as a result of its increased scale and breadth of global activities may result in an increase in the volume and sophistication of cyberattacks on JHG specifically. This may increase the amount of investment that the Group will need to make to minimize the risk of harm to its business and potentially increase the risk that, despite such investment, the Group will be a victim of a successful cyberattack. Recent well-publicized security breaches at other companies have exposed failings by companies to keep pace with the threats posed by cyberattackers and have led to enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyberattacks, and may in the future result in heightened cyber security requirements, including additional regulatory expectations for oversight of vendors and service providers which could lead to increased costs or fines or public censure which could lead to a damaged reputation and loss of customers (and a decrease in AUM, lower revenue and reduced net income) as a result.. Intech's investment process is highly dependent on key employees and proprietary software.. Intech's investment process (which relates to approximately 13% of JHG's AUM as of December 31, 2017) is based on complex and proprietary mathematical models that seek to outperform various indices by capitalizing on the volatility in stock price movements while controlling trading costs and overall risk relative to the index. The maintenance of such models for current products and the development of new products is highly dependent on certain key Intech employees. If Intech is unable to retain key personnel or properly transition key personnel responsibilities to others, if the mathematical investment strategies developed by Intech fail to produce the intended results, or if errors occur in the development or implementation of Intech's mathematical models, Intech may not be able to maintain its historical level of investment performance, which could adversely affect JHG's. 17. Table of Contents. AUM, results of operations and financial condition and could also result in legal claims against JHG or regulatory investigations in respect of its operations.. Failure to establish adequate controls and risk management policies, the circumvention of controls and policies, or fraud as well as failure to maintain adequate infrastructure or failures in operational or risk management processes and systems could have an adverse effect on the Group's assets under management, results of operation and financial condition.. JHG has a comprehensive risk management process and will continue to enhance various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risks to its business; however, there can be no assurances that such controls, procedures, policies and systems will successfully identify and manage internal and external risks to the business. JHG is subject to the risk that its employees, contractors or other third parties may deliberately seek to circumvent established controls to commit fraud or act in ways that are inconsistent with the Group's controls, policies and procedures (including insider trading). Any operational errors or negligence by the employees of, or others acting on behalf of, JHG or weaknesses in the internal controls over those processes could result in losses for JHG, a requirement for JHG to compensate clients for losses suffered and/or regulatory fines. Persistent or repeated attempts involving conflicts of interests, circumvention of policies and controls, fraud or insider trading could have a materially adverse impact on JHG's reputation and could lead to costly regulatory inquiries.. The JHG business is also highly dependent on the integrity, security and reliability of its information technology systems and infrastructure. If any of the critical systems or infrastructure do not operate properly or are disabled, the ability of JHG to perform effective investment management on behalf of its clients could be impaired. In addition, the failure to maintain an infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of JHG's business, including any expansion, could impede the Group's productivity and growth, which could negatively impact AUM, results of operations and financial condition.. JHG's infrastructure, including its technological capacity, data centers and office space, will be vital to the operations and competitiveness of its business. The failure to maintain an infrastructure commensurate with the increased size and scope of JHG's business, including any expansion, could impede the Group's productivity and growth, which could negatively impact assets under management, results of operations and financial condition, and increase operational risk.. Insurance may not be available on a cost-effective basis to help protect JHG from potential liabilities.. JHG faces the inherent risk of liability related to litigation from clients, third-party vendors or others. To help protect against these potential liabilities, JHG has purchased insurance in amounts, and against risks, that JHG considers appropriate, where such insurance is available at prices it deems acceptable. There can be no assurance, however, that a claim or claims will be covered by insurance or, if covered, will not exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, that any insurer will remain solvent and will meet its obligations to provide JHG with coverage or that insurance coverage will continue to be available with sufficient limits at a reasonable cost. Insurance costs are impacted by market conditions and the risk profile of the insured, and may increase significantly over relatively short periods. In addition, certain insurance coverage may not be available or may only be available at prohibitive costs. Renewals of insurance policies may expose JHG to additional costs through higher premiums or the assumption of higher deductibles or co-insurance liability.. 18. Table of Contents. JHG's business may be vulnerable to failures of support systems and client service functions provided by third-party vendors.. JHG's client service capabilities as well as its ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process client transactions and reports will be significantly dependent on communication and information systems and services provided by third-party vendors. The ability to consistently and reliably obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions and provide reports and other client services to the shareholders of funds and other investment products managed by JHG are essential to the Group's operations. Any delays, errors or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing client transactions or providing reports, and any other inadequacies in other client service functions could impact client relationships, result in financial loss and potentially give rise to regulatory action and claims against JHG. A failure of third-party systems or services could adversely affect JHG's AUM, results of operations and financial condition.. JHG depends on third-party service providers and other key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, custody, risk analytics, market data, market indices and transfer agent roles, and other distribution and operational needs. If JHG's third-party service providers or other key vendors fail to fulfill their obligations, experience service interruptions or otherwise provide inadequate service, it could lead to operational and regulatory problems, including with respect to certain of the Group's products, which could result in losses, enforcement actions, or reputational harm and which could negatively impact the Group's, AUM, results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to maintain adequate business continuity plans could have a material adverse impact on JHG and its products.. Significant portions of JHG's business operations and those of its critical third-party service providers will be concentrated in a few geographic areas, including the UK, U.S., Luxembourg and Australia. Should JHG, or any of its critical service providers, experience a significant local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, the Group's continued success will depend in part on the safety and availability of its personnel, its office facilities, and the proper functioning of its computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. The failure by JHG, or any of its critical service providers, to maintain updated adequate business continuity plans, including backup facilities, could impede the Group's ability to operate in the event of a disruption. This could negatively impact the Group's AUM, results of operations and financial condition. JHG has developed various backup systems and contingency plans but no assurance can be given that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. In addition, JHG will rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster contingency support, and, notwithstanding any due diligence or oversight carried out by JHG, no assurance can be given that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. If JHG, or any of its critical service providers, is unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, the Group may be unable to continue its business operations, which could lead to a damaged reputation and loss of customers, resulting in a decrease in AUM, lower revenue and reduced net income.. JHG's indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.. JHG's indebtedness could limit its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt servicing requirements or other purposes. Debt servicing requirements will increase JHG's vulnerability to adverse economic, market and industry conditions; limit JHG's flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in business operations or to the asset management industry overall; and place JHG at a disadvantage in relation to competitors that have lower debt levels. Any or all of the above events and factors could adversely affect JHG's AUM, results of operations and financial condition.. 19. Table of Contents. Legal and Regulatory Risks. JHG is periodically involved in various legal proceedings and regulatory matters and may be involved in such proceedings in the future.. JHG and its employees are periodically involved in various legal proceedings and regulatory investigations. Among other things, such matters may result in fines, censure, suspension of personnel and revocation of licenses. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect JHG's AUM, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, JHG and its employees have received and may receive in the future requests for information in connection with certain investigations or proceedings from various governmental and regulatory authorities. These investigations or proceedings may result in increased costs or reputational harm to the Group, which may lower sales and increase redemptions.. JHG operates in an industry that is highly regulated in most countries, and any enforcement action or adverse changes in the laws or regulations governing its business could adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition.. Like all investment management firms, JHG's activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which it conducts business. The Group is subject to regulation in the U.S., the UK, Europe, Australia and in other international markets, including regulation by the SEC, FINRA, the CFTC, the NFA, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission in Australia, and the FCA in the UK, Subsidiaries operating in the EU are subject to various EU Directives, which are implemented by member state national legislation. JHG's operations elsewhere in the world are regulated by similar regulatory organizations.. Laws and regulations applied at the international, national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over JHG's activities, including the power to limit or restrict its business activities, conduct examinations, risk assessments, investigations and capital adequacy reviews, and impose remedial programs to address perceived deficiencies. As a result of regulatory oversight, JHG could face requirements which negatively impact the way in which it conducts business, increase compliance costs, impose additional capital requirements and/or involve enforcement actions which could lead to sanctions up to and including the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of its business organizations or key personnel, or the imposition of fines and censures on it or its employees. Judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities, or in private litigation against JHG, could affect its reputation, increase its costs of doing business and/or negatively impact revenues, any of which could have an adverse impact on JHG's results of operations or financial condition.. JHG may also be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. The costs and burdens of compliance with these and other current and future reporting and operational requirements and regulations have increased significantly and may continue to increase the cost of offering mutual funds and other investment products and services, which could adversely affect JHG's AUM, results of operations and financial condition.. The regulatory environment in which JHG operates frequently changes and has seen a significant increase in regulation in recent years. Various changes in laws and regulations have been enacted or otherwise developed in multiple jurisdictions globally and various other proposals remain under consideration by legislators, regulators, and other government officials and other public policy commentators. Certain enacted provisions and certain other proposals are potentially far reaching and, depending upon their implementation, could have a material impact on JHG's business. JHG. 20. Table of Contents. may be adversely affected as a result of the new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations.. Proposed Changes in the U.S. Regulatory Framework. In the U.S., the government and other institutions have taken action, and may continue to take further action, in response to the volatility in the global financial markets. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law in July 2010. Certain provisions have required JHG, and other provisions will or may require JHG, to change and or impose new limitations on the manner in which it conducts business and has increased regulatory burdens and related compliance costs. Rulemaking is still ongoing for the Dodd-Frank Act and any further actions could include new rules and requirements that may be applicable to JHG, the effect of which could have additional adverse consequences to JHG's business and results of operations.. Regulators also continue to examine the different aspects of the asset management industry. For example, in December 2014, the Chairperson of the SEC announced a comprehensive agenda for regulatory change governing the U.S. asset management industry and directed SEC staff to develop a five-part series of new regulations addressing the topics of enhanced portfolio reporting, liquidity risk management, leverage and use of derivatives, adviser wind up and stress testing for funds and advisers. This resulted in new regulations regarding enhanced portfolio reporting (the Investment Company Reporting Modernization Act) and liquidity risk management (Liquidity Risk Management Rule). These new industry rules can be expected to add additional reporting, operational and compliance costs and may affect the development of new products. JHG believes these proposals could increase operational and compliance costs. It is unclear whether any of the former SEC Chairperson's other initiatives will result in any new rulemaking.. The DOL has adopted regulations, effective June 9, 2017 (with the delay of some provisions until July 1, 2019), that will treat as fiduciaries any person who provides investment advice or recommendations to employee benefit plans (plan fiduciaries, plan participants and plan beneficiaries) and, Individual Retirement Accounts (\"IRAs\") owners. The new regulations, when fully implemented, will have wide-ranging consequences for JHG and its U.S. distribution partners and product lines. Under the new rules, firms and individuals who recommend financial products to retirement investors would be required to act in the best interest of the investor and, to receive variable compensation, would be required to enter into a contract with clients and produce complex disclosure documents intended to highlight financial conflicts of interest that may arise from the compensation the financial adviser receives from firms like JHG.. With the commencement of President Trump's new administration, the regulatory moratorium imposed by President Trump on January 20, 2017, the possibility for the repeal of aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act, delay of portions of the DOL's fiduciary rule and other deregulation, and other political uncertainty in the U.S. following the 2016 Presidential and Congressional elections, the regulatory environment in the U.S. may experience increased volatility. At this time, it is not possible to determine the impact such reforms would have on JHG's business.. Proposed Changes in the European Union Regulatory Framework. The EU has promulgated or is considering various new or revised directives pertaining to financial services, including investment managers. Such directives are progressing at various stages, and have been, are being, or will or would be implemented by national legislation in member states. MiFID II is an example of such regulation, which seeks to promote a single market for wholesale and retail transactions in financial instruments. MiFID II, which came into effect on January 3, 2018, addresses the conduct of business rules for intermediaries providing investment services and the effective, efficient and safe operation of financial markets. Key elements of MiFID II in relation to. 21. Table of Contents. investor protection measures include changes to the extent to which retrocessions may be paid and the use of trading commissions to fund research. Such regulatory changes will have a direct impact on the revenue of JHG's asset management business as they reduce JHG's ability to utilize commissions to pay for research services which will result in operational changes and increased costs allocated to research services.. Various regulators promulgated or are considering other new disclosure or suitability requirements pertaining to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products or services, including enhanced standards and requirements pertaining to disclosures made to retail investors at the point of sale. As with the Dodd-Frank Act, the Group does not believe implementation of these directives will fundamentally change the asset management industry or cause JHG to reconsider its fundamental strategy, but certain provisions may require JHG to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which it conducts business and may result in increased fee and margin pressure from clients. They also have increased regulatory burdens and compliance costs, and will or may continue to do so. Certain provisions, such as MiFID II, may have unintended adverse consequences on the liquidity or structure of the financial markets. Similar developments are being implemented or considered in other jurisdictions where JHG does business; such developments could have similar effects.. The full impact of potential legal and regulatory changes or possible enforcement proceedings on the JHG business cannot be predicted. Such changes have imposed, and may continue to impose, new compliance costs and/or capital requirements, including costs related to information technology systems, or may impact JHG in other ways that could have an adverse impact on JHG's results of operations or financial condition. Similarly, regulatory enforcement actions which impose significant penalties or compliance obligations or which result in significant reputational harm could have similar adverse effects on JHG. Moreover, certain legal or regulatory changes could require JHG to modify its strategies, businesses or operations, and it may incur other new constraints or costs, including the investment of significant management time and resources in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. In recent years, certain regulatory developments have also added pressures regarding fee levels. In addition, the 2016 presidential election in the U.S., and recent elections in Europe, have created additional uncertainty as to the future regulatory environment and how it may impact JHG.. To the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of JHG products and services or investment strategies cause or contribute to reduced sales or increased redemptions of its products, impair the investment performance of its products or impact its product mix, JHG's aggregate assets under management, results of operations or financial condition might be adversely affected.. JHG may have increased regulatory capital requirements imposed on it by regulators, which could negatively impact the Group's ability to return capital or pay dividends to shareholders or its results of operations and financial condition.. JHG's regulators typically have broad discretion to impose increased regulatory capital requirements on the regulated entities in their respective groups. It is possible that the regulatory capital requirements that JHG's business is subject to currently may be subject to change and could increase. The imposition of increased regulatory capital requirements could negatively impact the Group's ability to return capital or pay dividends to shareholders, restrict its ability to make future acquisitions or, should the Company be required to raise additional capital, negatively impact its results of operations and financial condition.. 22. Table of Contents. Failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines could negatively impact JHG's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition.. Many of the investment management agreements under which JHG manages assets or provides services will specify investment guidelines or requirements that the Group will be required to observe in the provision of its services. Laws and regulations will also impose similar requirements for certain accounts. A failure to follow these guidelines or requirements could result in damage to the Group's reputation or in clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their assets or terminating their contracts, any one of which could cause revenues and profitability to decline. In addition breach of these investment guidelines or requirements could result in regulatory investigation, censure and/or fine. The risk of breach of such investment guidelines or requirements may be increased during the integration process as the businesses of Janus and Henderson are combined.. The UK electorate voted in favor of a UK exit from the EU in a referendum, which could adversely impact JHG's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The UK Government held an \"in-or-out\" referendum in June 2016 on the UK's membership in the EU. The UK electorate voted in favor of a UK exit from the EU (\"Brexit\"). The UK is still negotiating with EU governing bodies to determine the terms of the UK's exit from the EU. At present, it is not possible to predict the outcome of those negotiations or the future relationship the UK will have with the EU. However, JHG remains headquartered in the UK and conducts business in Europe through subsidiaries and branches in the EU as well as conducting cross-border business into the EU from the UK. Depending on the terms of Brexit, JHG could face additional costs, including possibly additional taxation, and other challenges, including new impediments to conducting EU business and costs of restructuring and other changes to facilitate continuing European business activities.. UK asset management firms could lose their current level of access to the single EU market and, as a result of Brexit, JHG may incur additional costs due to having to locate more activities within the EU. A decline in trade between the UK and EU could affect the attractiveness of the UK as a global investment center and could have a detrimental impact on UK economic growth. Although JHG has a diverse international customer base, its results could be adversely affected by the market impacts of reduced UK economic growth and greater volatility in the pound sterling. There could also be changes to UK and EU immigration policies as a result of Brexit, which could lead to restrictions on the free movement of investment and support staff between the UK and the EU.. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on JHG's business, results of operations or financial condition.. JHG may be subject to claims of lack of suitability.. If clients of JHG suffer losses on funds or investment mandates managed by the Group, they may seek compensation from JHG on the basis of allegations that the funds and/or investment mandates were not suitable for such clients or that the fund prospectuses or other marketing materials contained material errors or were misleading. Despite the controls relating to disclosure in fund prospectuses and marketing materials, it is possible that such action may be successful, which in turn could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Group. Any claim for lack of suitability may also result in regulatory investigation, censure and/or fine and may damage the reputation of JHG.. 23. Table of Contents. As a foreign private issuer, JHG is not subject to certain U.S. securities law disclosure requirements that apply to a domestic U.S. issuer, which may limit the information publicly available to our shareholders.. As a foreign private issuer, JHG is not required to comply with all of the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and therefore there may be less publicly available information about the company than if it were a U.S. domestic issuer. For example, JHG is not subject to the proxy rules in the U.S. and disclosure with respect to its annual meetings will be governed by Jersey law and ASX requirements. In addition, JHG's officers, directors and significant shareholders are exempt from the reporting and \"short-swing\" profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder. Therefore, JHG's shareholders may not know on a timely basis when the company's officers, directors and significant shareholders purchase or sell shares.. Risks Related to Taxes. Additional tax liabilities could have a material impact on the Group's financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity.. JHG operates in a number of territories, and will accordingly be subject to tax in several jurisdictions. The tax rules to which JHG are subject to tax are complex, and the Group as a whole, must make judgments (including certain judgments based on external advice) as to the interpretation and application of these rules. The tax affairs of the Group will in the ordinary course be reviewed by tax authorities, which may disagree with certain positions that JHG has taken, or that members of the Group have taken or will take in the future, and assess additional taxes. JHG regularly assesses the likely outcomes of such tax inquiries, investigations or audits in order to determine the appropriateness of their respective tax provisions. However, there can be no assurance that JHG will accurately predict the outcomes of these inquiries, investigations or audits, and the actual outcomes of these inquiries, investigations or audits could have a material impact on the Group's financial results.. Changes to tax laws could adversely affect JHG.. Any change in tax law, interpretation or practice, or in the terms of tax treaties, in a jurisdiction where the Group is subject to tax could increase the amount of tax payable by the Group. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, (the \"Act\"), was signed into law. The Act enacts broad changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax code, including reducing the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, amongst many other complex provisions. The ultimate impact of such tax reforms may differ from our current estimates due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by us as well as the issuance of any further regulations or guidance that may alter the operation of the U.S. federal income tax code. Various uncertainties also exist in terms of how U.S. states and any foreign countries within which the Group operate will react to these U.S. federal income tax reforms. The overall impact of the Act on the Group's future financial results is subject to uncertainties and the Group's financial results could be adversely impacted by certain other aspects of the Act.. The IRS may assert that JHG is to be treated as a domestic corporation or otherwise subject to certain adverse consequences for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Although JHG is a public limited company incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands and tax resident in the UK, the U.S. Internal Revenue Services (the \"IRS\") may assert that JHG, as a result of the Merger, should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal. 24. Table of Contents. income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (\"Section 7874\").. Section 7874 provides that if, following an acquisition of a U.S. corporation by a non-U.S. corporation, at least 80% of the acquiring non-U.S. corporation's stock (by vote or value) is considered to be held by former shareholders of the U.S. corporation by reason of holding stock of such U.S. corporation (such percentage referred to as the \"ownership percentage\" and such test referred to as the \"80% ownership test\"), and the \"expanded affiliated group\" which includes the acquiring non-U.S. corporation does not have substantial business activities in the country in which the acquiring non-U.S. corporation is created or organized, then the non-U.S. corporation would be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes even though it is a corporation created and organized outside the U.S.. JHG does not believe that the 80% ownership test was satisfied as a result of the Merger. If the 80% ownership test were satisfied and, as a result, JHG were treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, JHG could be liable for substantial additional U.S. federal income tax on its operations and income. Additionally, if JHG were treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, non-U.S. JHG shareholders would generally be subject to U.S. withholding tax on the gross amount of any dividends paid by JHG to such shareholders.. Section 7874 also provides that if, following an acquisition of a U.S. corporation by a non-U.S. corporation, the ownership percentage is equal to or greater than 60% but less than 80% (such test the \"60% ownership test\"), then the U.S. corporation and its affiliates could be prohibited from using their foreign tax credits or other U.S. federal tax attributes to offset the income or gain recognized by reason of the transfer of property to a non-U.S. related person or any income received or accrued by reason of a license of any property by such U.S. entity to a non-U.S. related person. Further, certain JCG stock compensation held directly or indirectly by management prior to the Merger would be subject to an excise tax at a rate equal to 15%. In addition, under U.S. Treasury temporary regulations, JHG's ability to integrate certain non-U.S. operations or to access cash earned by non-U.S. subsidiaries may be limited. JHG does not believe that the 60% ownership test was satisfied as a result of the Merger.. Because there is only limited guidance on the manner in which the ownership percentage is to be determined, there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with the position that JHG is to be treated as a non-U.S. corporation or that JHG is not to be subject to the other adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences associated with satisfying the 60% ownership test.. Jersey Company Risks. JHG's ordinary shares are governed by the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands, which may not provide the level of legal certainty and transparency afforded by incorporation in a U.S. state.. JHG is organized under the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands, a British crown dependency that is an island located off the coast of Normandy, France. Jersey is not a member of the EU. Jersey, Channel Islands legislation regarding companies is largely based on English corporate law principles. However, there can be no assurance that the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands, will not change in the future or that it will serve to protect investors in a similar fashion afforded under corporate law principles in the U.S., which could adversely affect the rights of investors.. U.S. shareholders may not be able to enforce civil liabilities against JHG.. Certain of JHG's directors and executive officers are not residents of the U.S. A substantial portion of the assets of such persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. upon such persons.. 25. Table of Contents. Judgments of U.S. courts may not be directly enforceable outside of the U.S. and the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts outside of the U.S. may be subject to limitations. Investors may also have difficulties pursuing an original action brought in a court in a jurisdiction outside the U.S. for liabilities under the securities laws of the U.S."
