[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors Related to Our Business and Common Stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Common Stock. On or after October 11, 2018, Flexpoint Fund II, L.P., or Flexpoint, will have the right to require the Company to redeem up to 33,333 shares of the Series A Convertible Preferred Shares purchased by Flexpoint on October 11, 2013.. Holders of our shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 (the “Series A Preferred”) owned by Flexpoint Fund II L.P. (“Flexpoint”) and Sundara Investment Partners, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company majority-owned and controlled by Laurence L. Stone (“Sundara”), and our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 (the “Series A-1 Preferred”) owned by Wellington Capital Management, LLP, (“Wellington”), may require the Company to redeem those shares purchased more than five years prior to the redemption date at a price equal to the liquidation value of such shares. Flexpoint, in its capacity as a holder of 33,333 shares of our Series A Preferred purchased on October 11, 2013, has the right, but not obligation, to require the Company to redeem all or any portion of such shares starting on October 11, 2018 for the liquidation value per share of $600, or up to $20.0 million in the aggregate. In addition, should the holders of the shares of the Series A Preferred exercise their redemption rights as described above, the holders of the Series A-1 Preferred may also redeem a proportionate amount of their shares outstanding up to an aggregate value of approximately $1.35 million. There can be no guarantee that Flexpoint will not exercise its right to redeem the first tranche of Series A Preferred on October 11, 2018 or thereafter.. We have a history of losses, and we may not have sufficient cash to allow us to comply with our redemption obligations. Our ability to redeem the Series A Preferred depends upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient, we may take certain actions aimed to enable us to finance the possible redemption of shares of Series A Preferred, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to obtain financing, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to redeem the initial tranche of Series A Preferred. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner, or at all. If the funds the Company legally available for the redemption of the Series A Preferred are insufficient to redeem the total number of shares of Series A Preferred to be redeemed on the redemption right, those funds which are legally available shall be used to redeem the maximum possible number of Series A Preferred Shares pro rata among the holders of Series A Preferred demanding redemption. A failure to redeem shares of Series A Preferred demanded by Flexpoint would result in an event of non-compliance under the Certificate of Designation of our Series A Preferred and would, among other things, entitle the holders of the majority of the Series A Preferred to demand immediate redemption of all or any portion of the Series A Preferred owned by such holders at the liquidation value per share.. The holders of our shares of Series A Preferred exercise substantial control over the Company, and have certain rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by our common stockholders.. We have issued and sold 99,666 shares of Series A Preferred to Flexpoint and 33,667 shares of Series A Preferred to Sundara, pursuant to that certain securities purchase agreement, dated August 22, 2013 (as amended and restated on October 18, 2016, the “Series A Purchase Agreement”). These shares of Series A Preferred are convertible into shares of our common stock based on the conversion price in effect on the date of conversion as provided in the certificate of designation applicable to the Series A Preferred. If all of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred were converted into shares of our common stock on the date of this annual report, the resulting shares of common stock would constitute a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred are entitled to vote with the holders of our common stock on an as-converted basis, subject to certain limitations. As a result, these stockholders, acting individually or together, have substantial influence and control over management and matters that require approval by our stockholders, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and approval of significant corporate transactions, including mergers and sales of substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership may make the execution of some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders.. It is possible that the interests of the holders of shares of our Series A Preferred may in some circumstances conflict with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders, including you. Certain of our directors are also officers or control persons of Flexpoint and Sundara. Although these directors owe a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our stockholders, these individuals may also owe fiduciary duties to these other entities and their shareholders, members and limited partners. Because Flexpoint, Sundara and their respective affiliates have such interests in other companies and engage in other business activities, certain of our directors may experience conflicts of interest in allocating their time and resources among our business and these other activities.. 8. In addition, shares of our preferred stock, including our Series A Preferred, have associated rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by the holders of our common stock, including, but not limited to, the right to receive a liquidation value of $600 per share of Series A Preferred prior to any payments made to holders of our common stock upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a sale of the Company, and that in certain instances are preferential to the rights of the holders of our common stock, including the right to appoint designees to our board. As a result, the interests of the holders of shares of preferred stock may differ from the interests of the holders of our common stock in material respects.. If we are unable to finance our business, we may need to seek capital at unfavorable terms and our stock price may decline as a result thereof.. Our capital requirements include working capital for daily operations, including expenditures to maintain our technology platforms. In May 2013, we entered into a contract and transitioned our processing to a new sponsoring bank, Wells Fargo Bank. Our sponsoring bank requires a $1.9 million reserve which we satisfied with a letter of credit at December 31, 2015. The letter of credit matured in January 2016 and was replaced with a restricted cash deposit of $1.9 million. We are currently working with several financial institutions to secure a new $1.9 million letter of credit at which time the restricted cash reserves would be released for operating needs. There can be no assurance that a letter of credit will be obtained or be obtained on reasonable terms. If a letter of credit cannot be obtained, the Company may need to pursue other financing arrangements, which may be on unfavorable terms and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. In addition, the Company’s cash requirements for the next fifteen months ending March 31, 2019 include, but are not limited to, principal and interest payments on long-term debt and capital lease obligations of approximately $5.4 million and estimated capital expenditures of $3.5 million to $4.0 million, $1.7 million of which the Company expects to fund with existing available credit facilities. We may need to secure additional borrowings and possible equity investments to continue to grow the company organically and through acquisitions. There can be no assurance we will be able to continue to obtain financing at favorable terms and our stock price may decline as a result thereof. If we do not continue to secure additional capital, we may need to curtail our future growth plans.. Our settlement of litigation with Merrick Bank Corporation has lowered the conversion price of the Preferred Shares.. The purchase agreements relating to the sale of shares of Series A Preferred and Series A-1 Preferred include certain indemnification provisions which provide for the reduction of the conversion price of the Preferred Shares upon the occurrence of certain events. Flexpoint, on behalf of itself and Sundara, delivered a notice to JetPay for an adjustment to the conversion price of the Series A Preferred based upon the settlement of litigation with Merrick Bank Corporation (the “Direct Air Matter”) announced in July 2016. On March 23, 2017, the conversion price of Series A Preferred was adjusted to $2.36 (from $2.90) pursuant to the Series A Purchase Agreement and, in connection with such adjustment, the conversion price of the Series A-1 Preferred was adjusted to $2.45 (from $3.00) pursuant to the securities purchase agreement to which shares of Series A-1 Preferred were purchased. Any additional claims for indemnification pursuant to these purchase agreements or claims from other indemnifiable matters in the future could result in a further reduction in the conversion price of the Preferred Shares.. Pursuant to agreements by and among the preferred shareholders, the Series A and Series A-1 Preferred conversion price may be adjusted upon a successful recovery of funds in the Company’s lawsuit against Valley National Bank, captioned Civil Action No. 2:14-cv-7827 (D. N.J.). There can be no assurance that the Company will prevail or successfully recover funds in its lawsuit against Valley National Bank.. We have a history of losses since inception and if we continue to incur losses, the price of our common shares can be expected to fall.. We have experienced losses from inception through December 31, 2017. While most of these losses have been due to non-cash amortization and the charge related to the settlement of the Direct Air Matter, until the Company’s products and services generate sufficient annual revenues, the Company will be required to use its cash on hand, and may need to continue to raise capital to meet its cash flow requirements including the issuance of common stock or debt financing at unfavorable terms. Despite positive cash flow excluding non-cash amortization relating to intangible assets, non-cash interest costs, and debt discounts, we incurred a net loss before accretion of convertible preferred stock of $3.1 million and $8.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. If we incur losses in the future, the price of our common stock may fall. The net loss before accretion of convertible preferred stock for the year ended December 31, 2017, included a charge related to the settlement of the Ten Lords Matter in the amount of $747,000. The net loss before accretion of convertible preferred stock for the year ended December 31, 2016, included a charge related to the settlement of the Merrick Bank Matter in the amount of $6.2 million.. 9. We may require additional financing or find it necessary to raise capital to sustain our operations and without it we may not be able to execute on our business plan.. At December 31, 2017, we had net working capital of approximately $1.0 million. We had net cash provided by operating activities of $2.5 million, and $1.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, and 2016, respectively. Although we believe that we have adequate existing resources to provide for our debt service and other funding requirements through at least April 1, 2019, there can be no assurances that we will be able to continue to generate sufficient funds thereafter. Unless we maintain or grow our current level of operations, we may need additional funds to continue these operations. We also need additional capital to perform usual updates to our technology or respond to unusual or unanticipated non-operational events. To fund and integrate future acquisitions or expand our technology platforms for new business initiatives, we may need to raise additional capital through loans or additional equity issuances. In addition, we continue to investigate the capital markets for sources of funding, which could take the form of additional debt or equity financing. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in securing new financing or that we will secure such future financing with commercially acceptable terms. Should the financing we require to sustain our working capital needs and investments in technology be unavailable or prohibitively expensive when we require it, the consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. The agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that may constrain the operation of our business, and our failure to comply with these covenants may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our ongoing ability to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, including but not limited to our financing agreements with First National Bank of Pennsylvania, Fifth Third Bank, and LHLJ, Inc., depends on the achievement of adequate levels of cash flow. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the acceleration of our indebtedness and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the occurrence of a material breach of any of these financing agreements may constitute an event of non-compliance under the Series A Purchase Agreement, which would entitle holders of a majority of the Series A Preferred to demand immediate redemption of all or a portion of the shares of Series A Preferred at the then-applicable liquidation value.  Such holders may also exercise a right to have the holders of the Series A Preferred elect a majority of the Board by increasing the size of the Board and filling such vacancies.  Such right to control a majority of the Board would exist for so long as the event of non-compliance was continuing.. We may be required to incur further debt to meet future capital requirements of our business. Should we be required to incur additional debt, the restrictions imposed by the terms of such debt could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to respond to changes in our business.. If we incur additional debt, we may be subject to the following risks:. ·our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions may be heightened;. ·our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business may be limited;. ·our debt covenants may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry;. ·higher levels of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors or prevent us from pursuing opportunities;. ·covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds and make certain investments;. ·a significant portion of our cash flow could be used to service our indebtedness; and. ·our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes may be impaired.. We cannot assure you that our leverage and such restrictions will not materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available when required or, if available, will be on terms satisfactory to us.. 10. We may need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital needs, which may prevent us from growing our business.. We may need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital needs, including developing new products and technologies or to fund future acquisitions or operating needs. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity securities, these transactions may dilute the value of our outstanding common stock. We may also decide to issue securities, including debt securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. We may be unable to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all. If financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our future needs. This may prevent us from increasing our market share, capitalizing on new business opportunities or remaining competitive in our industry.. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. As a result of our acquisitions a significant portion of our total assets consist of intangible assets (including goodwill). Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets together accounted for approximately 37% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2017. We may not realize the full fair value of our intangible assets and goodwill. We expect to engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. We will evaluate on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets may be impaired. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of goodwill and such intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may discover or otherwise become aware of adverse information regarding our acquired businesses, and we may be required subsequently to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our share price. Any such development could cause you to lose some or all of your investment.. We conducted due diligence investigations of the businesses we acquired, and intend to do the same with any business we consider in the future. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business, and despite the due diligence performed on the acquired companies, we cannot assure you that this process has identified or will identify all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target’s business and our control will not later arise. If our due diligence investigation fails to identify material issues relating to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even if these charges may be non-cash items and may not adversely affect our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming debt held by a target business or by virtue of our otherwise obtaining debt financing.. Any acquisitions that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition.. Acquisitions are part of our growth strategy. We evaluate, and expect in the future to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions which provide new product and service sales channels or that enhance our current technologies. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, services or technologies that we acquire. Additionally, the integration of any acquisition may divert management’s time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. To the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it would be dilutive to our stockholders. To the extent we pay the purchase price with proceeds from the incurrence of debt, it would increase our already high level of indebtedness and could negatively affect our liquidity and restrict our operations.. We compete with many companies, some of which are more established and better capitalized than us.. We compete with a variety of companies, some of which are larger and better capitalized than us. There are also few barriers for entry into many of our markets and thus above average profit margins will likely attract additional competitors. Our competitors may develop products and services that are superior to, or have greater market acceptance than, our products and services. For example, many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and larger customer bases than ours. These factors may allow our competitors to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies, which may allow them to offer superior products and services.. 11. Our stock price has been, and likely will continue to be, volatile and an investment in our common stock may suffer a decline in value.. The market price of our common stock has in the past been, and is likely to continue in the future to be, volatile. That volatility depends upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. ·announcements regarding the results of expansion or development efforts by us or our competitors;. ·announcements regarding the acquisition of businesses or companies by us or our competitors;. ·technological innovations or new products and services developed by us or our competitors;. ·announcements or actual changes in banking and financial service regulations at the federal or state level;. ·issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports and/or recommendations applicable to us or our competitors;. ·relatively low percentage of our stock eligible to be traded;. ·additions or departure of our key personnel;. ·operating losses by us; and. ·actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results and degree of trading liquidity in our common stock.. One or more of these factors could cause a decline in our revenues and income or in the price of our common stock, thereby reducing the value of an investment in our Company.. Our policy of not paying cash dividends on our common stock could negatively affect the price of our common stock.. We have not paid in the past, and do not expect to pay in the foreseeable future, cash dividends on our common stock. We expect to reinvest in our business any cash otherwise available for dividends. Our decision not to pay cash dividends may negatively affect the price of our common stock.. Future issuances of shares of our common stock or sales by certain insiders may cause our stock price to decline and impair our ability to raise additional capital.. In December 2015 and January 2016, we issued 517,037 shares of our common stock to certain investors, including certain of our director and executive officers, in a series of private placements of our common stock. The issuance of a significant number of additional shares of our common stock, or the perception that such future sales could occur, particularly with respect to sales by our directors, executive officers, and other insiders or their affiliates, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities at a price we deem appropriate.. If we raise additional capital in the future, your ownership in us could be diluted.. Any issuance of additional equity we may undertake in the future could cause the price of our common stock to decline, or require us to issue shares at a price that is lower than that paid by holders of our common stock in the past, which would result in those shares being dilutive. If we obtain funds through a credit facility or through the issuance of debt or preferred securities, these securities would likely have rights senior to your rights as a common stockholder, which could impair the value of our common stock.. 12. The reporting requirements of being a publicly-traded company increase our overall operating costs and subject us to increased regulatory risk.. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and the listing requirements of Nasdaq. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, which is expensive and requires the attention of our limited management resources. The various financial reporting, legal, corporate governance and other obligations associated with being a publicly-traded company require us to incur significant expenditures and place additional demands on our management, administrative, operational, and financial resources. If we are unable to continue to comply with these requirements in a timely and effective manner in the future, we and/or our executive officers may be subject to sanctions by the SEC, and our ability to raise additional funds in the future may be impaired and ultimately affects our business. We will continue to incur additional expenses as a result of being a publicly traded company.. We are dependent upon a small number of individual employees, and the loss of such employees could adversely affect our ability to operate.. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of individuals, including Diane (Vogt) Faro, our Chief Executive Officer, Michael Collester, our Chief Operating Officer, Gregory Krzemien, our Chief Financial Officer, Peter Davidson, our Vice Chairman and Corporate Secretary, John Crouch, our Chief Information Officer, and Michael Pires, the President of our HR & Payroll Services operation. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of these individuals. The loss of any of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on our Company.. Our risk management framework may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure against all types of risks.. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, manage and report our risks. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies such that there could be risks that we cannot anticipate or identify. If our risk management framework were to become ineffective, we could experience unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The ability to recruit, retain and develop qualified personnel is critical to the Company’s success and growth.. For us to successfully compete and grow, we must retain, recruit and develop the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise required in our business. Additionally, we must develop our personnel to provide succession plans capable of maintaining continuity in the midst of the unpredictability of human capital. However, the market for qualified personnel is competitive and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. The Company’s effort to retain and develop personnel may also result in significant additional expenses. The Company cannot assure you that key personnel, including executive officers, will continue to be employed or that it will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. Changes in laws or regulations, or failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, investments and results of operations.. We are subject to laws and regulations enacted by national, regional and local governments. In particular, we will be required to comply with certain SEC and other legal requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws and regulations may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws and regulations and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, as interpreted and applied, by any of the persons referred to above could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our business and reputation may be affected by security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure, which could compromise our Company and customer information.. We rely upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to support a variety of business processes. In order to provide our services, we process and store sensitive business information and personal information about our merchants, merchants’ customers, ISOs, vendors, partners and other parties. This information may include credit and debit card numbers, bank account numbers, social security numbers, driver’s license numbers, names and addresses, and other types of personal information or sensitive business information. Vulnerabilities, threats, and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of security measures and constantly updating and adapting security requirements, our networks, products, and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats.. 13. If we experience a problem with the functioning of key systems or a security breach of our systems, the resulting disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business involves the use of significant amounts of private and confidential customer and client information including credit and debit card numbers and related “magnetic stripe” information, bank account and transit routing numbers, employees’ identification numbers, bank accounts, and retirement account information. This information is critical to the accurate and timely provision of services to clients, and certain information may be transmitted via the Internet. This information could be compromised by a cyber-attack. There is no guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect against all security breaches. If our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, both we and our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. We may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by disruptions or security breaches in the future. Such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulation investigation and penalties, loss of clients’ business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Insiders and affiliates continue to have substantial control over us, which could delay or prevent a change in control.. As of March 26, 2018, our directors and named executive officers, together with their affiliates, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 65.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may have the ability to delay or prevent a change in control that may be favored by other stockholders and otherwise exercise significant influence over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including:. ·the appointment of directors, including three directors appointed directly by holders of the Series A Preferred;. ·the appointment, change or termination of management;. ·any amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws;. ·the approval of acquisitions or mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets; or. ·the defeat of any non-negotiated takeover attempt that might otherwise benefit the public stockholders.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control or our management.. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the laws of Delaware, the state in which we are incorporated, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us or a change in management that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions:. ·establish a classified, or staggered, Board of Directors, so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time;. ·limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders;. ·establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings;. ·prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and. ·provide our Board of Directors with the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval.. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to remove and elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. 14. We could be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market if we fail to comply in the future with Nasdaq’s continuing listing requirements.. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market and is subject to the continuing listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market, including but not limited to maintaining a stock closing price above $1.00 and certain other financial measurements.. On November 14, 2017, we received written notice from Nasdaq that, as of November 13, 2017 and based on our stockholders’ equity reported our Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2017, the Company no longer satisfied the requirement to maintain $2.5 million in stockholders’ equity, $35 million in market value of listed securities (“MVLS”) or $500,000 of net income from continuing operations pursuant to Listing Rule 5550(b). On December 28, 2017, the Company submitted to Nasdaq a plan to regain compliance with Listing Rule 5550(b). On January 8, 2018, we received written notice from Nasdaq that the Company regained compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(b) because for the ten consecutive business day period from December 20, 2017 to January 5, 2018, the Company’s MVLS exceeded $35 million.. Additionally, on March 16, 2018, we received notice from Nasdaq that we have not maintained a MVLS of $35 million for the last 30 consecutive business days and are not in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(b). Pursuant to the Nasdaq Listing Rules, the Company has 180 days, or until September 12, 2018, in which to regain compliance with the MVLS requirement. In order to regain compliance with this requirement, the Company must evidence a MVLS of at least $35 million for a minimum of ten consecutive business days during the 180-day compliance period.. If we are unable to regain compliance with or continue to meet the continuing listing requirements, we could be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Upon delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market, our stock would be traded on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board, more commonly known as OTCBB. Many stocks on the OTCBB trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than stocks listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, which could materially and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. If the trading of shares of our common stock were moved from the Nasdaq Capital Market to the OTCBB, it would be more difficult for stockholders’ to sell our stock or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. We cannot provide assurance that our common stock, if delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, will be listed on another national securities exchange or quoted on an over-the counter quotation system.. The costs and effects of pending and future litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, financial position and results of operations.. We are involved in various litigation matters and from time to time may be involved in governmental or regulatory investigations or similar matters arising out of our current or future business. Our insurance or indemnities may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in pending or future litigation or similar matters under various laws. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any pending litigation or future litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our insurance is inadequate, we could face significant losses.. We maintain various insurance policies for our assets and operations. The insurance policies include, but are not limited to, property, general liability, cyber-attack, and errors and omissions coverages, including business interruption protection for each location. We also maintain workers’ compensation policies in every state in which we operate as well as Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance. There can be no assurance that our insurance will provide sufficient coverage in the event a claim is made against us, or that we will be able to maintain in place such insurance at reasonable prices. An uninsured or under insured claim against us of sufficient magnitude could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations can impact the estimates made for income tax provisions in our financial statements, or we may become subject to additional federal, state or local taxes that cannot be passed through to our merchants and which could reduce our operating income.. We are subject to federal, state and local tax laws in each jurisdiction where we do business. We estimate the impact of tax law changes, including the recent impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) on December 22, 2017, in recording our estimated tax provision within our consolidated financial statements. Upon completion of our 2017 U.S. income tax return in 2018, additional re-measurement adjustments may be identified to the recorded tax provision related to the one-time transition tax, deferred tax liabilities, or the value of our estimated tax loss carryforwards. Additionally, changes in tax laws or interpretations of tax laws may affect the amount of our cash flow, and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The integration and conversion of our acquired operations or other future acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating both businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process.. The acquisition, integration, and conversion of businesses involve a number of risks. Core risks are in the area of valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited diligence) and integration and conversion (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company's people, services, technology and other assets to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition).. 15. If the integration and conversion process does not proceed smoothly, the following factors, among others, could reduce our revenues and earnings, increase our operating costs, and result in a loss of projected synergies:. ·If we are unable to successfully integrate the benefits plans, duties and responsibilities, and other factors of interest to the management and employees of the acquired business, we could lose employees to our competitors, which could significantly affect our ability to operate the acquired business and complete the integration;. ·If the integration process causes any delays with the delivery of our services, or the quality of those services, we could lose customers to our competitors, which would reduce our revenues and earnings;. ·The acquisition may otherwise cause disruption to the acquired company’s business and operations and relationships with financial institutions, customers, merchants, employees and other partners;. ·The acquisition and the related integration could divert the attention of our management from other strategic matters including other possible acquisitions and alliances and planning for new product development or expansion into new electronic payments markets; and. ·The costs related to the integration of the acquired company’s business and operations into ours and the financing of the transaction may be greater than anticipated.. Risk Factors Related to Payment Services Segment. JetPay Payment Services incurs liability when its merchants refuse or cannot reimburse it for chargebacks resolved in favor of its customers, fees, fines or other assessments it incurs from the payment networks. JetPay Payment Services cannot accurately anticipate these liabilities, which may adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the event a dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally charged back to the merchant and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. Furthermore, such disputes are more likely to arise during economic downturns. If JetPay Payment Services is unable to collect such amounts from the merchant’s account or reserve account (if applicable), or if the merchant refuses or is unable, due to closure, bankruptcy or other reasons, to reimburse JetPay Payment Services for a chargeback, JetPay Payment Services may bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. The risk of chargebacks is typically greater with those merchants that promise future delivery of goods and services rather than delivering goods or rendering services at the time of payment. Although JetPay Payment Services employs an experienced risk manager, JetPay Payment Services may experience significant losses from chargebacks in the future. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by merchants which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. JetPay Payment Services’ systems may be subject to disruptions that could adversely affect its business and reputation.. Many of JetPay Payment Services customers are highly dependent on its ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions. JetPay Payment Services relies heavily on its authorization, settlement, communications, financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, JetPay Payment Services could suffer financial loss, a disruption of their customers, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to its reputation. JetPay Payment Services has disaster recovery plans in place to protect its business against natural disasters, security breaches, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures or similar events. Despite preparations, JetPay Payment Services’ disaster recovery plans may not be successful in preventing the loss of client data, service interruptions, and disruptions to its operations, or damage to its important facilities.. Fraud by merchants or others could have an adverse effect on JetPay Payment Services’ operating results and financial condition.. JetPay Payment Services has potential liability for fraudulent bankcard transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit bankcard or card number to record a false sales transaction, processes an invalid bankcard, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeit and fraud. While JetPay Payment Services has systems and procedures designed to detect and reduce the impact of fraud, JetPay Payment Services cannot assure the effectiveness of these measures. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud would increase chargeback liability or cause them to incur other liabilities. Increases in chargebacks or other liabilities could have an adverse effect on their operating results and financial condition.. 16. Increases in credit and debit card network fees may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in JetPay Payment Services’ earnings.. From time to time, the card networks, including Visa and MasterCard, increase the fees (interchange and assessment fees) that they charge processors such as JetPay Payment Services. JetPay Payment Services may attempt to pass these increases along to its merchant customers, but this strategy might result in the loss of those customers to their competitors who do not pass along the increases. If competitive practices prevent JetPay Payment Services’ passing along such increased fees to its merchant customers in the future, JetPay Payment Services may have to absorb all or a portion of such increases thereby increasing its operating costs and reducing its earnings.. The loss of key ISOs, VARs, ISVs, and financial institutions could reduce JetPay Payment Services’ revenue growth.. JetPay Payment Services’ ISO / VAR / ISV, and financial institution sales channel, which purchases and resells its end-to-end services to its own portfolio of merchant customers, is a strong contributor to its revenue growth. If an ISO / VAR / ISV, or financial institution switches to another transaction processor, shuts down, becomes insolvent, or enters the processing business themselves, we may no longer receive new merchant referrals from the ISO / VAR / ISV, or financial institution, and they risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the ISO / VAR / ISV, or financial institution, all of which could negatively affect its revenues and earnings.. The loss of one or more of our key customers could significantly reduce our revenues, results of operations, and net income.. We have derived, and believe we may continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from certain large customers. Our customers may purchase less of our services depending on their own technological requirements, end-user demand for our products and competitive factors from other service providers. A major customer in one year may not purchase any of our services or a reduced amount of our services in another year, which may negatively affect our financial performance. Additionally, if we are required to sell products to one or several large customers at reduced prices or unfavorable terms, our results of operations and revenues could be materially adversely affected. Further, there is no assurance that our customers will continue to utilize our transaction processing and related services as our customer agreements are generally cancelable by the customer, with varying penalties.. If we cannot keep pace with rapid developments and change in our industry and provide new services to our clients, the use of our service could decline, reducing our revenues.. The electronic payment market in which we compete is subject to rapid and significant changes. This market is characterized by rapid technological change, new product and service introductions, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and the entrance of non-traditional competitors. In order to remain competitive, we are continually involved in a number of projects to develop new services or compete with these new market entrants, including ecommerce services, the development of mobile phone payment applications, prepaid card offerings, and other new offerings emerging in the electronic payment industry. These projects carry risks, such as cost overruns, delays in delivery, performance problems and lack of customer acceptance. In the electronic payments industry these risks are acute. Any delay in the delivery of new services or the failure to differentiate our services or to accurately predict and address market demand could render our services less desirable, or obsolete, to our clients. In addition, the services we deliver are designed to process very complex transactions and provide reports and other information on those transactions, all at very high volumes and processing speeds. Any failure to deliver an effective and secure service or any performance issue that arises with a new service could result in significant processing or reporting errors or other losses. As a result of these factors, our development efforts could result in increased costs and/or we could also experience a loss in business that could reduce our earnings or could cause a loss of revenue if promised new services are not timely delivered to our clients or do not perform as anticipated. We also rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of, and access to new technologies. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to develop, adapt to or access technological changes or evolving industry standards on a timely and cost effective basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, our competitors may have the ability to devote more financial and operational resources than we can to the development of new technologies and services, including ecommerce and mobile payment processing services that provide improved operating functionality and features to their existing service offerings. If successful, their development efforts could render our services less desirable to clients, resulting in the loss of clients or a reduction in the fees we could generate from our offerings.. 17. Our operating results are subject to seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly results from operations.. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenues as a result of consumer spending patterns. Historically our revenues within our Payment Services Segment have been strongest in our first and second quarters, and weakest in our fourth quarter. This is due to the increase in the number and amount of electronic payments transactions related to seasonal travel and resort spending.. The payment processing industry is highly competitive and we compete with certain firms that are larger and that have greater financial resources. Such competition could increase, which would adversely influence our prices to merchants, and as a result, our operating margins.. The market for payment processing services is highly competitive. Other providers of payment processing services have established a sizable market share in the small and mid-sized merchant processing sector. Maintaining historic growth will depend on a combination of the continued growth in electronic payment transactions and our ability to increase our market share. The weakness of the current economic recovery could cause future growth in electronic payment transactions to slow compared to historical rates of growth. This competition may influence the prices we are able to charge. If the competition causes them to reduce the prices it charges, we will have to aggressively control costs in order to maintain acceptable profit margins. In addition, some of our competitors are financial institutions, subsidiaries of financial institutions or well-established payment processing companies. Our competitors that are financial institutions or subsidiaries of financial institutions do not incur the costs associated with being sponsored by a bank for registration with the card networks and can settle transactions more quickly for their merchants than they can for other processors such as JetPay Payments, TX. These competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, management and marketing resources than we have. This may allow our competitors to offer more attractive fees to its current and prospective merchants, or other products or services that it does not offer. This could result in a loss of customers, greater difficulty attracting new customers, and a reduction in the price we can charge for our services.. In order for us to continue to grow and increase our profitability, we must continue to expand our share of the existing electronic payments markets and also expand into new markets.. Our future growth and profitability depend upon our continued expansion within the markets in which we currently operate, the further expansion of these markets, the emergence of other markets for electronic transaction payment processing and our ability to penetrate these markets. As part of our strategy to achieve this expansion, we look for acquisition opportunities, investments and alliance relationships with other businesses that will allow us to increase our market penetration, technological capabilities, product offerings and distribution capabilities. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition, investment and alliance candidates in the future, and if we do, they may not provide us with the value and benefits we anticipate.. Our expansion into new markets is also dependent upon our ability to apply our existing technology or to develop new applications to meet the particular service needs of each new market. We may not have adequate financial or technological resources to develop effective and secure services and distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of these new markets. If we fail to expand into new and existing electronic payments markets, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues and earnings.. There may be a decline in the use of credit or debit cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the credit card industry in general.. If consumers do not continue to use payment cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards and debit cards which is adverse to JetPay Payment Services, it could have a material adverse effect on its financial position and results of operations. JetPay Payment Services believes future growth in the use of credit cards will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently increase and maintain its profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to use credit cards. Moreover, if there is an adverse development in the credit card industry in general, such as new legislation or regulation that makes it more difficult for their customers to do business, JetPay Payment Services’ financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected.. 18. Continued consolidation in the banking and retail industries could adversely affect JetPay Payment Services’ growth.. JetPay Payment Services faces the risk that its clients may merge with entities that are not its clients, its clients may sell portfolios to entities that are not its clients and, based on current economic conditions, its clients may be seized by banking regulators or nationalized, thereby impacting their existing agreements and projected revenues with these clients. In addition, consolidation among financial institutions has led to an increasingly concentrated client base which results in a changing client mix toward larger clients. Continued consolidations among financial institutions could increase the bargaining power of their current and future clients. Larger banks and larger merchants with greater transaction volumes may demand lower fees which could result in lower revenues and earnings for JetPay Payment Services. Consolidation among financial institutions, the nationalization of financial institutions or the seizure by banking regulators of financial institutions and the resulting loss of any significant client by JetPay Payment Services could have a material adverse effect on its financial position and results of operations.. Changes in the laws, regulations, credit card association rules or other industry standards affecting JetPay Payment Services business may impose costly compliance burdens and negatively impact its businesses.. There may be changes in the laws, regulations, credit card association rules or other industry standards that affect JetPay Payment Services’ operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways in the United States as well as internationally. Changes to statutes, regulations or industry standards, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or standards, could increase the cost of doing business or affect the competitive balance. Regulation and proposed regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations or standards to which JetPay Payment Services is subject in the United States as well as internationally, including the card network rules and rules with respect to privacy and information security, may result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and the imposition of fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial position and results of operations, as well as damage its reputation.. JetPay Payment Services and the rest of the financial services industry continue to experience increased legislative and regulatory scrutiny, including the enactment of additional legislative and regulatory initiatives such as Dodd-Frank. This legislation provides for significant financial regulatory reform. Dodd-Frank, among other things, provides for the regulation and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board of debit interchange fees that are typically paid by acquirers and charged or received by a payment card network for the purpose of compensating an issuer for its involvement in an electronic debit transaction. Dodd-Frank also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services, including consumer credit. In addition, Dodd-Frank created a Financial Stability Oversight Council that has the authority to determine whether nonbank financial companies should be supervised by the Federal Reserve Board because they are systemically important to the United States financial system. Any such designation would result in increased regulatory burdens on our business. The overall impact of Dodd-Frank on our business is difficult to estimate. Current and future regulations as a result of Dodd-Frank may adversely affect our business or operations, directly or indirectly (if, for example, its clients’ businesses and operations are adversely affected).. Changes to legal rules and regulations, or interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a negative financial effect on JetPay Payment Services’ business. In addition, even an inadvertent failure to comply with laws and regulations, as well as rapidly evolving social expectations of corporate fairness, could damage JetPay Payment Services’ business or its reputation.. Risks associated with reduced levels of consumer and business spending could adversely affect JetPay Payment Services’ business, financial condition and results of operations.. The electronic payments industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer and business spending. Significant portions of JetPay Payment Services’ revenue and earnings are derived from fees from processing consumer credit card and debit card transactions. JetPay Payment Services is exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income or changes in consumer purchasing habits. A sustained deterioration in general economic condition, particularly in the United States, or increases in interest rates may adversely affect their financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions made using electronic payments. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease in their revenue and profits. If cardholders of their financial institution clients make fewer transactions with their cards, JetPay Payment Services’ merchants make fewer sales of their products and services using electronic payments or people spend less money per transaction, JetPay Payment Services will have fewer transactions to process at lower dollar amounts, resulting in lower revenues.. 19. A weakening in the economy could have a negative impact on JetPay Payment Services’ clients, as well as its customers who purchase products and services using its payment processing systems, which could, in turn, negatively impact its business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the recessionary environment disproportionately affects some of the discretionary market segments that represent a larger portion of its payment processing volume. In addition, a weakening in the economy could force retailers to close, resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and future transaction declines. If a downturn occurs, credit card issuers may reduce credit limits, close accounts, and become more selective with respect to whom they issue credit cards. JetPay Payment Services also has a certain amount of fixed and semi-fixed costs, including rent, debt service, processing contractual minimums and salaries, which could limit its ability to quickly adjust costs and respond to changes in its business and the economy. Changes in economic conditions could also adversely impact future revenues and profits and cause a materially adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. Governmental regulations designed to protect or limit access to consumer information could adversely affect JetPay Payment Services’ ability to effectively provide its services to merchants.. Governmental bodies in the United States and abroad have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, laws and regulations restricting the transfer of, and requiring safeguarding of, non-public personal information. For example, in the United States, all financial institutions must undertake certain steps to ensure the privacy and security of consumer financial information. While their operations are subject to certain provisions of these privacy laws, JetPay Payment Services has limited its use of consumer information solely to providing services to other businesses and financial institutions. In connection with providing services to its clients, JetPay Payment Services is required by regulations and contracts with their merchants and financial institution clients to provide assurances regarding the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer information. These contracts require periodic audits by independent companies regarding its compliance with industry standards and also allow for similar audits regarding best practices established by regulatory guidelines. The compliance standards relate to their infrastructure, components and operational procedures designed to safeguard the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer personal information shared by its clients with JetPay Payment Services. Its ability to maintain compliance with these standards and satisfy these audits will affect its ability to attract and maintain business in the future. If JetPay Payment Services fails to comply with these regulations, it could be exposed to lawsuits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings. In addition, its client relationships and reputation could be harmed, and JetPay Payment Services could be inhibited in its ability to obtain new clients. If more restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted by authorities in the future on the federal or state level, compliance costs may increase, opportunities for growth may be curtailed by its compliance capabilities or reputational harm and potential liability for security breaches may increase, all of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we cannot pass increases from payment networks including interchange, assessment, transaction and other fees along to our merchants, our operating margins will be reduced.. We pay interchange and other fees set by the payment networks to the card issuing financial institution and the payment networks for each transaction we process. From time to time, the payment networks increase the interchange fees and other fees that they charge payment processors and the financial institution sponsors. At their sole discretion, our financial institution sponsors have the right to pass any increases in interchange and other fees on to us. We are generally permitted under the contracts into which we enter, and in the past we have been able to, pass these fee increases along to our merchants through corresponding increases in our processing fees. However, if we are unable to pass through these and other fees in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa, MasterCard or other payment networks, those payment networks could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations through our financial institution sponsors. Fines could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and if these registrations are terminated, we may not be able to conduct our business.. A significant source of our revenues comes from processing transactions through the Visa, MasterCard and other payment networks. The payment networks routinely update and modify their requirements. Changes in the requirements may impact our ongoing cost of doing business and we may not, in every circumstance, be able to pass through such costs to our clients or associated participants. Furthermore, if we do not comply with the payment network requirement, the payment networks could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations which allow us to process transactions on their networks. If we are unable to recover fines from or pass through costs to our merchants or other associated participants, we would experience a financial loss. The termination of our registration, or any changes in the payment network rules that would impair our registration, could require us to stop providing payment network services to Visa, MasterCard, or other payment networks, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operation.. 20. The Visa and MasterCard settlement may result in a decline in the use of credit cards as a payment mechanism.. In July 2012, Visa and MasterCard agreed to settle litigation in a class action suit by almost seven million merchants. The settlement was originally approved by the court but is currently subject to review as several large merchants have filed objections. Among other things, the settlement would have allowed merchants to pass on the cost of using credit cards to consumers, something that merchants were not previously permitted to do. As a result, consumers using credit cards in approximately 39 states that do not prohibit credit card surcharges may pay a higher price for goods and services than consumers using other payment mechanisms. Consumers therefore have an incentive to use cash or other payment mechanisms instead of credit cards. If consumers do not continue to use payment cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards and debit cards which is adverse to JetPay Payment Services, it could have a material adverse effect on its financial position and results of operations. JetPay has developed a product to take advantage of the ability for merchants to pass along their card processing costs to cardholders. If the terms of the initial settlement were reversed, the change could have a negative impact on JetPay Payment Services’ new product and its resulting revenues.. JetPay Payment Services may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions.. As part of providing services to clients, JetPay Payment Services relies on a number of third-party service providers. These service providers include, but are not limited to, communications providers, electric utilities, payment networks like Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover, banks used to electronically transfer funds to merchants, and various telecommunications providers. Failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to its operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to JetPay Payment Services.. If our agreements with financial institution sponsors and clearing service providers to process electronic payment transactions are terminated or otherwise expire and we are unable to renew existing or secure new sponsors or clearing service providers, we will not be able to conduct our business.. The Visa, MasterCard and other payment network rules require us to be sponsored by a member bank in order to process electronic payment transactions. Because we are not a bank, we are unable to directly access these payment networks. We are currently registered with the Visa, MasterCard and other payment networks through Wells Fargo Bank and other sponsor banks. Our current agreement with Wells Fargo Bank expires in April 2018. We are currently pursuing alternatives with the Wells Fargo Bank and other potential sponsor banks. These agreements with Wells Fargo Bank and other sponsors give them substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants and the terms of our agreements with merchants. Our financial institution sponsors’ discretionary actions under these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on Wells Fargo Bank and various other financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. Without these sponsorships or clearing services agreements, we would not be able to process Visa, MasterCard and other payment network transactions or settle transactions which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our financial results could be adversely affected if our costs associated with such sponsorships or clearing services agreements increase.. JetPay Payment Services may become the target for criminal activity designed to obtain cardholder information.. JetPay Payment Services is required to retain cardholder information for facilitating transactions or performing servicing for consumers. Although JetPay is required to undergo certification of its compliance with Payment Card Industry security requirements and has implemented advanced systems for protecting such data including encryption and tokenization, there is no guarantee that these systems will be effective in the future. A breach of these systems could lead to significant liability, fines, and additional costs to JetPay Payment Services.. 21. The requirements for EMV (Europay, MasterCard, and Visa) and point to point encryption (“P to PE”) technology could provide risks to JetPay Payment Services.. The card networks have developed rules to increase the adoption of EMV, a chip-based system to better manage potential credit card fraud, and are considering the adoption of P to PE, which encrypts card data within the device used to read the card number (either a magnetic stripe or chip reader). As part of these new rules, the risk of several types of fraud, which currently resides with the card issuer, is being changed to become the responsibility of merchants who have not implemented EMV technology whenever an EMV capable card is used at that merchant. EMV requirements create two potential risks; first, the implementation of EMV is a complicated process, and JetPay Payment Services may not be able to implement it on a timely basis, resulting in lost business; and second, EMV is primarily valuable in reducing fraud at the point of sale, where cards are physically utilized. While it is currently not clear what rules the networks may enact regarding P to PE, they are likely to similarly change the current risk parameters. As EMV (and potentially P to PE) becomes more prevalent in the market, fraud perpetrators have shown in other countries where EMV implementation has preceded the United States, that they will attempt more card-not-present fraud. As JetPay Payment Services has a sizeable presence in the card-not-present market, this could lead to the potential for higher fraud losses.. Risk Factors Related to JetPay HR & Payroll Services. JetPay HR & Payroll Services’ systems may be subject to disruptions that could adversely affect its business and reputation.. Many of JetPay HR & Payroll Services’ customers are highly dependent on its ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions. JetPay HR & Payroll Services relies heavily on its payroll, financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, JetPay HR & Payroll Services could suffer financial loss, a disruption of their customers, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to its reputation. JetPay HR & Payroll Services has disaster recovery plans in place to protect its business against natural disasters, security breaches, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures or similar events. Despite preparations, JetPay HR & Payroll Services’ disaster recovery plans may not be successful in preventing the loss of client data, disruptions to its operations or damage to its important facilities.. Political and economic factors may adversely affect JetPay HR & Payroll Services’ business and financial results.. Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and volatility. When there is a slowdown in the economy, employment levels and interest rates may decrease with a corresponding impact on JetPay HR & Payroll Services’ businesses. Clients may react to worsening conditions by reducing their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services or renegotiating their contracts with JetPay HR & Payroll Services.. JetPay HR & Payroll Services invests client funds in liquid, government-backed securities. Nevertheless, its client fund assets are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated, individually or in unison, during periods of unusual financial market volatility.. JetPay HR & Payroll Services is dependent upon various large banks to execute ACH and wire transfers as part of its client payroll and tax services. While JetPay HR & Payroll Services has contingency plans in place for bank failures, a systemic shutdown of the banking industry would impede its ability to process funds on behalf of its payroll and tax services clients and could have an adverse impact on its financial results and liquidity.. Our operating results are subject to seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly results from operations.. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenues as a result of consumer spending patterns. Historically our revenues have been stronger in our first and fourth quarters, and weaker in our second and third quarters. This is due to the nature and timing of year-end Form W-2 processing.. JetPay HR & Payroll Services’ services may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies.. Many of JetPay HR & Payroll Services’ services, particularly payroll tax administration services, are designed according to government regulations that continually change. Changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of JetPay HR & Payroll Services’ services and substantially decrease its revenue. Added requirements could also increase JetPay HR & Payroll Services’ cost of doing business. Failure to educate and assist JetPay HR & Payroll Services’ clients regarding new or revised legislation that impacts them could have an adverse impact on its reputation. Failure by JetPay HR & Payroll Services to modify its services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations.. 22. Our clients and our business could be adversely impacted by health care reform.. The Affordable Care Act was enacted in March 2010 and entails sweeping health care reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 through 2018. Many provisions of the Affordable Care Act require the issuance of additional guidance from the U.S. Departments of Labor and Health & Human Services, the Internal Revenue Service, and the states. As a service provider, we may be requested by our clients to help them understand their increased obligations under the federal and state regulations facing employers under the Affordable Care Act. Failure to provide clients with appropriate information or solutions to effectively manage their health care benefits and related costs could have an adverse impact on our reputation and a negative impact on our client base. There is no guarantee that solutions we have developed to help clients navigate health care legislation will continue to be readily accepted by clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our HR and Affordable Care Act services.. Interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance.. JetPay HR & Payroll Services receives interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. A change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies would adversely impact this interest income.. We may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology or provide timely enhancements to our products and services.. To maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients’ requirements. We continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology and partnerships with other third party service providers. If our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. There can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. If we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations.. JetPay HR & Payroll Services may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions.. As part of providing services to clients, JetPay HR & Payroll Services relies on a number of third-party service providers. These service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks, banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees, and other third party providers for certain HCM services such as Affordable Care Act services. Failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to JetPay HR & Payroll Services’ operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to JetPay HR & Payroll Services."
