[1] "Item 1A. \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRisk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our shares.. We focus principally on specific sectors of the economy, and deterioration in the business environment in these sectors or a decline in the market for securities of companies within these sectors could harm our business.. We focus our business activities principally in four target industries: technology, healthcare, financial services and real estate. Volatility in the business environment in these industries or in the market for securities of companies within these industries could adversely affect our financial results and the market value of our shares. The business environment for companies in some of these industries has been subject to high levels of volatility in recent years, and our financial results have consequently been subject to significant variations from year to year. Over the last decade, the mix of our investment banking revenues has shifted. In 2007, the year of our initial public offering, the financial services and real estate sectors, together, represented 48% of our total investment banking revenues; in 2017, these two sectors represented 43% of such revenues. While the healthcare sector constituted 23% of our total investment banking revenues in 2007, the sector constituted 37% of such revenues in 2017.. The market for securities in each of our target industries may also be subject to industry-specific risks. For example, we have research, investment banking and principal investments focused in the areas of financial services and real estate. In the course of the past decade, these industries have been negatively impacted at times by disruption in the financial markets and the broader economy, leading to severe downturns in real estate values, upheaval in the mortgage, credit and equity markets, and the distress or failure of both major and minor financial institutions. Volatility or prolonged dislocation in one or more of the industries on which we focus our efforts could impair our ability to conduct business and generate revenues in those sectors. Underwriting and other corporate finance activities, strategic advisory engagements, and sales and trading activities in our target industries represent a significant portion of our business. This concentration exposes us to the risk of a decline in revenue in the event of a downturn in any one of our four target industries, should our corporate clients in these industries or our institutional clients focused on these industries become unable or unwilling to continue to engage us for our services.. As an investment bank with an emphasis on certain growth sectors of the economy, we depend significantly on private company transactions for sources of revenue and potential business opportunities. Most of these private company clients are initially funded and controlled by venture capital funds and private equity firms. To the extent that the pace of these private company transactions slows or the average transaction size declines due to a decrease in venture capital and private equity financings, difficult market conditions in our target industries or other factors, our business and results of operations may be harmed.. Our ability to retain our senior professionals and recruit additional professionals is critical to the success of our business, and our failure to do so may adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our people are our most valuable resource. Our ability to generate and successfully execute the transactions that account for a significant portion of our revenues depends upon the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and project execution skills of our senior professionals, particularly our managing directors and the members of our executive committee. The reputations and relationships of our senior professionals with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and executing client engagements. Turnover in the investment banking industry is high, and we encounter intense competition for qualified employees from other companies in the investment banking industry, as well as from businesses outside the investment banking industry, such as hedge funds and private equity funds.. To the extent we continue to have annual compensation and benefits expense targets, we may not be able to retain our professionals or recruit additional professionals at compensation levels that are within our target range for compensation and benefits expense. If we were to lose the services of any of our investment bankers, senior equity research, sales and trading professionals, senior investment management personnel or executive officers to a new or existing competitor or otherwise, we may not be able to retain valuable relationships, and some of our clients could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services. If we are unable to retain our senior professionals or recruit additional professionals, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Further, new business initiatives and efforts to expand existing businesses generally require that we incur compensation and benefits expense before generating additional revenues.. 13. Table of Contents. Our growth strategy relies on our ability to attract and retain productive senior professionals across all of our businesses. Due to the relatively early stage of development of many of our businesses and competition from other firms, we may face difficulties in recruiting and retaining professionals of a caliber consistent with our business strategy. In particular, many of our competitors are significantly larger, with greater financial resources, and may be able to offer more attractive compensation packages and broader career opportunities. Additionally, it may take more than one year for us to determine whether new professionals will be effective and will generate revenues, during which time we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources on training, integration and business development.. Certain aspects of our cost structure are largely fixed, and we may incur costs associated with new or expanded lines of business prior to these lines of business generating significant revenue. If our revenue declines or fails to increase commensurately with the expenses associated with new or expanded lines of business, our profitability may be materially adversely affected.. We may incur costs associated with new or expanded lines of business, including guaranteed or fixed compensation costs, prior to generating significant revenue from these lines of business. In addition, certain aspects of our cost structure, such as costs for occupancy, communication and information technology services, and depreciation and amortization are largely fixed, and we may not be able to adjust these costs quickly enough to match fluctuations in revenue. If our revenue declines, or fails to increase commensurately with the expenses associated with new or expanded lines of business, our profitability may be materially adversely affected.. We face strong competition from larger firms, some of which have greater resources and name recognition than we do, which may impede our ability to grow our business.. The investment banking industry is intensely competitive, and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including client relationships, reputation, the abilities of our professionals, transaction execution, innovation, market focus and the relative quality and price of our services and products. We have experienced intense price competition in our various businesses. Pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including the trends toward multiple book runners, co-managers and financial advisors handling transactions, could adversely affect our revenues, even if the size and number of our investment banking transactions increases.. Our investment bank subsidiary had 180 employees as of December 31, 2017. Many of our competitors have a broader range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more senior professionals to serve their clients’ needs, greater global reach and more established relationships with clients than we have. These larger and better-capitalized competitors may be more able to respond to changes in the investment banking industry, compete for skilled professionals, finance acquisitions, fund internal growth and compete for market share generally. These firms have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. In particular, the ability to provide commercial financing has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors; and, because we do not provide such financing, we may be unable to compete as effectively for clients in a significant part of the investment banking industry. In addition, if the number of capital markets and financial advisory transactions were to decline, larger investment banking firms could seek to enter into engagements with smaller companies and to execute transactions that traditionally would have been considered too small for these firms.. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected.. We face strong competition from middle-market investment banks.. We compete with specialized investment banks to provide access to capital and strategic advice to small and middle-market companies in our target industries. We compete with those investment banks on the basis of a number of factors, including client relationships, reputation, the abilities of our professionals, transaction execution, innovation, market focus and the relative quality and price of our services and products. We have experienced intense competition from similarly-sized firms over obtaining advisory mandates in recent years, and we may experience pricing pressures in our investment banking business in the future as some of our competitors seek to gain increased market share by reducing fees. Competition in the middle market may further intensify if larger Wall Street investment banks expand their focus farther into this sector of the market. Increased competition could reduce our market share and our ability to generate investment banking fees.. We also face increased competition due to a trend in recent years toward consolidation among companies in the financial services industry. This trend was amplified by the disruption and volatility in the financial markets in 2015 and 2016 and, before that, to a much greater degree in 2008 and 2009. As a result, a number of financial services companies have merged, been acquired or have fundamentally changed their business models. Many of these firms may have the ability to support investment banking, including financial advisory, with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure in our businesses.. Our share price has been volatile, and it may continue to be volatile in the future.. The market price of our shares could be subject to significant fluctuations due to factors such as:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in book value due to principal investment valuations;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition or results of operations;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to meet the expectations of securities analysts;. 14. Table of Contents. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta decline in the stock prices of peer companies;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta discount in the trading multiple of our shares relative to that of shares of certain of our peer companies, due to perceived risks associated with our smaller size;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe success or failure of potential acquisitions, our operating strategies and our perceived prospects and those of the financial services industry in general;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in our distribution policy;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of substantial numbers of our shares by our employees or other shareholders, or the possibility of such sales; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\tthe realization of any of the other risks described in this section.. We currently have on file with the SEC an effective “universal” shelf registration statement on Form S-3. This shelf registration statement enables us to sell, from time to time, our shares and other securities covered by the shelf registration statement in one or more public offerings. Sales of substantial numbers of our shares or other securities covered by the shelf registration statement may adversely affect the price of our shares. Declines in the price of our shares may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain senior professionals, including our managing directors and other professionals. In addition, we may not be able to access the capital markets for future principal transactions.. Our financial results from investment banking activities may fluctuate substantially from period to period, which may impair our share price.. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, significant variations from period to period in our revenues and results of operations from investment banking activities. Future variations in investment banking revenues may be attributable in part to the fact that our investment banking revenues are typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction, the timing of which is uncertain and beyond our control. In most cases, we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. As a result, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, a client’s acquisition transaction may be delayed or terminated because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or shareholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or unexpected financial or other problems in the business of a client or a counterparty. If the parties fail to complete a transaction on which we are advising or an offering in which we are participating, we will earn little or no revenue from the contemplated transaction. In addition, we incur significant expenses related to a contemplated transaction, regardless of whether or not the contemplated transaction generates revenue. This risk may be intensified by our focus on growth companies in the technology, healthcare, financial services and real estate industries, as the market for securities of these companies has experienced significant variations in the number and size of equity offerings. In addition, our investment banking revenues are highly dependent on the level of merger and acquisition and capital raising activity in the U.S., which fluctuates substantially from period to period. According to data from Thomson Reuters, a provider of global investment banking analysis and systems, the number of announced U.S. merger and acquisition transactions in our four target industries with values of $1.0 billion or less varied from 2,236 in 2015 ($244.7 billion of aggregate value) to 1,831 in 2016 ($243.0 billion of  aggregate value) to 2,028 in 2017 ($202.2 billion of aggregate value). The number of U.S. equity capital raising transactions varied from 981 in 2015 (raising $267.2 billion) to 873 in 2016 (raising $204.1 billion) to 1,066 in 2017 (raising $210.4 billion). Our investment banking revenues would be adversely affected in the event that the number and size of mergers and acquisitions and capital raising transactions in our sectors of focus decline. As a result, we may not achieve steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis, which could in turn adversely affect our share price.. Further, because a significant portion of our revenue is derived from investment banking fees and brokerage commissions, severe market fluctuations, weak economic conditions, or a decline in stock prices, trading volumes or liquidity could cause our financial results to fluctuate from period to period as a result of the following, among other things:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe number and size of transactions for which we provide underwriting and merger and acquisition advisory services may decline;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe value of the securities we hold in inventory as assets, which we often purchase in connection with market-making and underwriting activities, may decline; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe volume of trades we execute for our clients may decrease.. To the extent our clients, or counterparties in transactions with us, are more likely to suffer financial setbacks in a volatile stock market environment, our risk of loss during these periods would increase.. Our corporate finance and strategic advisory engagements are singular in nature and do not generally provide for subsequent engagements.. Our investment banking clients generally retain us on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific corporate finance activities, merger and acquisition transactions (often as an advisor in the sale of a company) or other strategic advisory services, rather than on a recurring basis under long-term contracts. As these transactions are typically singular in nature and our engagements with these clients may not recur, we must seek new engagements when our existing engagements are successfully completed or terminated. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high activity levels in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements that generate fees from new or existing clients, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. Pricing and other competitive pressures may impair the revenues of our sales and trading business.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our sales and trading business, which accounted for 19%, 18% and 18% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Along with other investment banking firms, we have experienced intense price competition and trading volume reduction in this business in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute trades electronically and through alternative trading systems has increased the downward pressure on trading commissions and spreads. We expect these trends toward alternative trading systems and downward pricing pressure in the business to continue. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future, as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price or by using their own capital to facilitate client trading activities. In addition, we face pressure from our larger competitors, which may be better able to offer a broader range of complementary products and services to clients in order to win their trading business. Since we are committed to maintaining and improving our comprehensive research coverage in our target sectors to support our sales and trading business, we may be required to make substantial investments in our research capabilities to remain competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively in these areas, the revenues of our sales and trading business may decline, and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.. Some of our large institutional sales and trading clients as measured by brokerage revenues have entered into arrangements with us and with other investment banks, under which they separate payments for research products or services from trading commissions for sales and trading services and pay for research directly in cash, instead of compensating the research providers through trading commissions (referred to as “soft dollar” practices). In addition, we have entered into certain commission sharing arrangements in which institutional clients execute trades with a limited number of brokers and instruct those brokers to allocate a portion of their commissions directly to us, to another broker-dealer or to an independent research provider. If more such arrangements are reached between our clients and us, or if similar practices are adopted by more firms in the investment banking industry, it may further increase the competitive pressures on trading commissions and spreads and reduce the value our clients place on high-quality research. Conversely, if we are unable to make similar arrangements with other investment managers that insist on separating trading commissions from research products, volumes and trading commissions in our sales and trading business also would likely decrease.. Larger and more frequent capital commitments in our trading and underwriting businesses increase the potential for significant losses.. There is a trend toward larger and more frequent commitments of capital by financial services firms in many of their activities. For example, in order to win business, investment banks are increasingly committing to purchase large blocks of stock from publicly traded issuers or significant stockholders, instead of undertaking the more traditional underwriting process in which marketing is typically completed before an investment bank commits to purchase securities for resale. We may participate in this trend and, as a result, we may be subject to increased risk. Conversely, if we do not have sufficient regulatory capital to do so, our business may suffer. Furthermore, we may suffer losses as a result of the positions taken in these transactions, even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in the industry.. We may increasingly commit our own capital as part of our trading business to facilitate client sales and trading activities. The number and size of these transactions may adversely affect our results of operations in a given period. We may also incur significant losses from our sales and trading activities due to market fluctuations and volatility in our results of operations. To the extent that we own assets (i.e., have long positions) in any of those markets, a downturn in the value of those assets or in those markets could result in losses. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets we do not own (i.e., have short positions) in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially large losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market.. The asset management business is intensely competitive.. Over the past several years, the size and number of asset management funds, including hedge funds and private equity funds, has continued to increase. If this trend continues, it is possible that it will become increasingly difficult for our funds to raise capital. More significantly, as institutional and individual investors allocate increasing amounts of capital to alternative investment strategies, the size and duration of pricing inefficiencies is reduced. Many alternative investment strategies seek to exploit these inefficiencies, and in certain industries this trend drives prices for investments higher. Both of these situations can increase the difficulty of achieving targeted returns. In addition, if interest rates were to rise or there were to be a prolonged bull market in equities, the attractiveness of our funds relative to other investment products could decrease. Competition is based on a variety of factors, including:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinvestment performance;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinvestor perception of the drive, focus and alignment of interest of an investment manager;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tquality of service provided to, and duration of relationship with, investors;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tbusiness reputation; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlevel of fees and expenses charged for services.. 16. Table of Contents. We compete in the asset management business with a large number of investment management firms, private equity fund sponsors, hedge fund sponsors and other financial institutions. A number of factors serve to increase our competitive risks, as follows:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tInvestors may develop concerns that we will allow a fund to grow to the detriment of its performance.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSome of our competitors have greater capital, lower targeted returns or greater sector or investment strategy-specific expertise than we do, which creates competitive disadvantages with respect to investment opportunities.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSome of our competitors may perceive risk differently than we do, which could allow those competitors either to outbid us for investments in particular sectors or to consider a wider variety of investments.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThere are relatively few barriers to entry impeding new asset management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various lines of business, including former “star” portfolio managers at large diversified financial institutions as well as such institutions themselves, will continue to result in increased competition.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOther industry participants in the asset management business continuously seek to recruit our best and brightest investment professionals away from us.. These and other factors could reduce our earnings and revenues and adversely affect our business. In addition, if we are forced to compete with other alternative asset managers on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current base management and incentive fee structures. We have historically competed primarily on the performance of our funds, and not on the level of our fees relative to those of our competitors. However, there is a risk that fees in the alternative investment management industry will decline, without regard to the historical performance of a manager, including our managers. Fee reductions on our existing or future funds, without corresponding decreases in our cost structure, would adversely affect our revenues and distributable earnings.. Poor investment performance may decrease assets under management and reduce revenues from, and the profitability of, our asset management business.. Revenues from our asset management business are primarily derived from asset management fees. Asset management fees are comprised of base management and incentive fees. Management fees are typically based on assets under management, and incentive fees are earned on a quarterly or annual basis only if the return on our managed accounts exceeds a certain threshold return, or “high-water mark,” for each investor. We will not earn incentive fee income during a particular period, even when a fund had positive returns in that period, if we do not generate cumulative performance that surpasses a “high-water mark.” If a fund experiences losses, we will not earn incentive fees with regard to investors in that fund until its returns exceed the relevant “high-water mark.”. In addition, investment performance is one of the most important factors in retaining existing investors and competing for new asset management business. Investment performance may be poor as a result of current or future difficult market or economic conditions, including changes in interest rates or inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty, our investment style, the particular investments that we make, and other factors. Poor investment performance may result in a decline in our revenues and income by causing (i) the net asset value of the assets under our management to decrease, which would result in lower management fees to us, (ii) lower investment returns, resulting in a reduction of incentive fee income to us, and (iii) investor redemptions, which would result in lower fees to us, because we would have fewer assets under management.. To the extent that our future investment performance is perceived to be poor in either relative or absolute terms, the revenues and profitability of our asset management business will likely be reduced, and our ability to grow existing funds and raise new funds in the future will likely be impaired.. The historical returns of our funds may not be indicative of the future results of our funds.. The historical returns of our funds should not be considered indicative of the future results that should be expected from such funds or from any future funds we may raise. Our rates of return reflect unrealized gains, as of the applicable measurement date, which may never be realized due to changes in market and other conditions not in our control that may adversely affect the ultimate valuation of the investments in a fund. The returns of our funds may have also benefited from investment opportunities and general market conditions that may not repeat themselves, and there can be no assurance that our current or future funds will be able to avail themselves of profitable investment opportunities. Furthermore, the historical and potential future returns of the funds we manage also may not necessarily bear any relationship to potential returns on our shares.. There is increasing regulatory supervision of alternative asset management companies.. As noted above, in the past several years, the financial services industry has been the subject of heightened scrutiny by regulators around the globe. In particular, the SEC and its staff have focused more narrowly on issues relevant to alternative asset management firms, forming specialized units devoted to examining such firms and, in certain cases, bringing enforcement actions against the firms, their principals and employees. In the last few years, there were a number of enforcement actions within the industry. Recently, the SEC has announced that the 2018 examination priorities for the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations include such items as cybersecurity compliance and controls, anti-money laundering programs, and the continuing oversight of private fund advisers, focusing substantially on concerns related to transparency and disclosure practices. However, it is unclear whether the SEC and its staff will maintain the same level of enforcement if, in the future, there is an effort on the part of the federal government to ease restrictions on business conduct, which could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy.. 17. Table of Contents. Our asset management clients generally may redeem their investments, which could reduce our asset management fee revenues.. Our asset management fund agreements generally permit investors to redeem their investments with us after an initial “lockup” period, during which redemptions are restricted or penalized. However, any such restrictions may be waived by us. Thereafter, redemptions are permitted at quarterly or annual intervals. If the return on the assets under our management does not meet investors’ expectations, investors may elect to redeem their investments and invest their assets elsewhere, including with our competitors. Our management fee revenues correlate directly with the amount of assets under our management; therefore, redemptions may cause our fee revenues to decrease. Investors may decide to reallocate their capital away from us and to other asset managers for a number of reasons, including poor relative investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates that make other investments more attractive, changes in investor perception regarding our focus or alignment of interest, dissatisfaction with changes in or a broadening of a fund’s investment strategy, changes in our reputation, and departures or changes in responsibilities of key investment professionals. For these and other reasons, the pace of redemptions and corresponding reduction in our assets under management could accelerate. In the future, redemptions could require us to liquidate assets under unfavorable circumstances, which would further harm our reputation and results of operations.. We invest our own principal capital in equity securities and debt that expose us to a significant risk of capital loss.. We use a portion of our own capital in a variety of principal investment activities, each of which involves risks of illiquidity, loss of principal and revaluation of assets. At December 31, 2017, our gross principal investments included $27.8 million invested in other investments, of which $14.4 million related to our family of funds and $12.1 million to entities managed by third parties. We also had $20.8 million invested in marketable securities and $7.9 million invested through short positions on marketable securities. In addition, we have investments in private companies through loans and lines of credit, which, as of December 31, 2017, are carried at $83.9 million net of reserves for credit losses. We have $48.1 million par value invested in the subordinated securities issued by the CLOs.. The companies in which we invest may rely on new or developing technologies or novel business models, or concentrate on markets which are or may be disproportionately impacted by pressures in the financial services and/or real estate sectors that have not yet developed and that may never develop sufficiently to support successful operations, or their existing business operations may deteriorate or may not expand or perform as projected. As a result, we have suffered losses in the past, and we may suffer losses from our principal investment activities in the future.. We have made and may in the future make principal investments in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets that often have significantly leveraged capital structures, and we may fail to realize any profits from these activities for a considerable period of time or lose some or all of the principal amount we invest in these activities.. We may purchase equity securities and, to a lesser extent, debt securities in venture capital, seed and other high-risk financings of early-stage, pre-public companies, in “mezzanine stage” companies, and  in turnaround and distressed situations, as well as in funds or other collective investment vehicles. We risk the loss of capital invested by us in these entities.. We may use our capital, including on a leveraged basis, in principal investments in both private and public company securities that may be illiquid and volatile. The equity securities of any privately held entity in which we make a principal investment are likely to be restricted as to resale and may otherwise be highly illiquid. In the case of fund or similar investments, our investments may be illiquid until such investment vehicles are liquidated. We expect that there will be restrictions on our ability to resell any such securities that we acquire for a period of at least six months after we acquire such securities. Thereafter, a public market sale may be subject to volume limitations or be dependent upon securing a registration statement for an initial, and potentially secondary, public offering of the securities. We may make principal investments that are significant relative to the overall capitalization of the investee company, and resale of significant amounts of these securities may be subject to significant limitations and adversely affect the market and the sales price for the securities in which we invest. In addition, our principal investments may involve entities or businesses with capital structures that have significant leverage. The large amount of borrowing in a leveraged capital structure increases the risk of losses, due to factors such as rising interest rates, downturns in the economy, or deteriorations in the condition of the investment or its industry. In the event of defaults under borrowings, the assets being financed would be at risk of foreclosure, and we could lose our entire investment.. Even if we make an appropriate investment decision based on the intrinsic value of an enterprise, we cannot assure you that general market conditions will not cause the market value of our investments to decline. For example, an increase in interest rates, a general decline in the stock markets, or other market and industry conditions adverse to companies of the type in which we invest and intend to invest could result in a decline in the value of our investments or a total loss of our investment.. 18. Table of Contents. In addition, some of these investments are, or may in the future be, in industries or sectors that are unstable, in distress or undergoing some uncertainty. Such investments may be subject to rapid changes in value caused by sudden company-specific or industry-wide developments. Contributing capital to these investments is risky, and we may lose some or all of the principal amount of our investments. There are no regularly quoted market prices for a number of the investments that we make. The value of our investments is determined using fair value methodologies described in valuation policies, which may consider, among other things, the nature of the investment, the expected cash flows from the investment, bid or ask prices provided by third parties for the investment, the trading price of recent sales of securities (in the case of publicly traded securities), restrictions on transfer, and other recognized valuation methodologies. The methodologies we use in valuing individual investments are based on estimates and assumptions specific to the particular investments. Therefore, the value of our investments does not necessarily reflect the prices that would actually be obtained by us when such investments are sold. Realizations at values significantly lower than the values at which investments have been previously held would result in loses of potential incentive income and principal investments.. We may experience write-downs of our investments and other losses related to the valuation of our investments in volatile and illiquid market conditions.. We have exposure to volatile or illiquid securities, including investments in companies that have and may hold mortgage-related products, such as residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities, mortgage loans, and other mortgage and real estate-related securities. We continue to have exposure to these markets and products and, as market conditions continue to evolve, the fair value of these mortgage-related instruments could deteriorate.. In addition, in our principal investment activities, our concentrated holdings, illiquidity and market volatility may make it difficult to value certain of our investment securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of these factors could require us to take write-downs in the value of our investment and securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.. Difficult conditions in the global financial markets have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, our ability to generate business and revenues, which may cause significant fluctuations in our share price.. All of our businesses have been in the past and may in the future be materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and general economic conditions, such as the level and volatility of interest rates, investor sentiment, the availability and the cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, the U.S. real estate market, volatile energy prices, consumer confidence, unemployment and geopolitical issues. While financial markets have become more stable and have generally improved since the extreme disruption from 2007 to 2009, there remains a certain degree of uncertainty about a sustained global economic recovery. U.S. markets may be impacted by political and civil unrest occurring in the Middle East and in Eastern Europe and Russia. Concerns about the European Union (“EU”), including Britain’s June 23, 2016 referendum to exit the European Union, may cause further uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally. Any negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from these developments could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods.. Weakness or disruption in equity markets and diminished trading volume of securities have adversely impacted our sales and trading business in the past and could continue to do so in the future. Industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and mergers and acquisitions may also have an adverse effect on our revenues. Reductions in the trading prices for equity securities tend to reduce the transaction value of investment banking transactions, such as underwriting and merger and acquisition transactions, which in turn may reduce the fees we earn from these transactions. Market conditions may also affect the level and volatility of securities prices and the liquidity and value of investments in our funds and managed accounts, and we may not be able to manage our investment management business’ exposure to these market conditions. In addition to these factors, deterioration in the financial markets or economic conditions in the U.S. and globally could materially affect our business in other ways, including the following:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur opportunity to act as underwriter or placement agent could be adversely affected by a reduction in the number and size of capital raising transactions or by competing government sources of equity.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe number and size of merger and acquisition transactions or other strategic advisory engagements in which we act as adviser could be adversely affected by uncertainties in valuations related to asset quality and creditworthiness, volatility in the equity markets and diminished access to financing.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMarket volatility could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenue we receive from commissions and spreads.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may experience losses in securities trading activities, or write-downs in the value of securities that we own, as a result of deteriorations in the businesses or creditworthiness of the issuers of such securities.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may experience losses or write-downs in the realizable value of our principal investments due to the inability of companies in which we invest to repay their borrowings.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur access to liquidity and capital markets could be limited, preventing us from making principal investments and restricting our sales and trading businesses.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may incur unexpected costs or losses as a result of the bankruptcy or other failure of companies for which we have performed investment banking services, and such companies may be unable to honor ongoing obligations such as indemnification or expense reimbursement agreements.. 19. Table of Contents. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSudden sharp declines in market values of securities can result in illiquid markets and the failure of counterparties to perform their obligations, which could make it difficult for us to sell securities, hedge securities positions and invest assets under management.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAs an introducing broker to a clearing firm, we are responsible to the clearing firm and could be held liable for the defaults of our customers, including losses incurred as the result of a customer’s failure to meet a margin call. Although we review credit exposure to specific customers, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. When we allow customers to purchase securities on margin, we are subject to risks inherent in extending credit. This risk increases when a market is rapidly declining and the value of the collateral held falls below the amount of a customer’s indebtedness. If a customer’s account is liquidated as the result of a margin call, we are liable to our clearing firm for any deficiency.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCompetition in our investment banking and sales and trading businesses could intensify as a result of the increasing pressures on financial services companies and larger firms, which have led them to compete for transactions and business that historically would have been too small for them to consider.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMarket volatility could result in lower prices for securities, which could result in reduced management fees calculated as a percentage of assets under management.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMarket declines could increase claims and litigation, including arbitration claims from customers.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur industry could face increased regulation as a result of legislative or regulatory initiatives. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tGovernment intervention may not succeed in improving the equity and credit markets and may have negative consequences for our business.. It is difficult to predict how long current financial market and economic conditions will continue, whether they will deteriorate and, if they do, which of our business lines will be adversely affected. If one or more of the foregoing risks occurs, our revenues would likely decline; and, if we were then unable to reduce expenses at the same pace, our profit margins would erode.. Our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold.. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Declines in the market value of securities can result in the failure of buyers and sellers of securities to fulfill their settlement obligations and in the failure of our clients to fulfill their credit obligations. During market downturns, counterparties to us in securities transactions may be less likely to complete transactions. In addition, particularly during market downturns, we may face additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults.. Our businesses may be adversely affected by the disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and liquidity and higher costs of obtaining credit.. Generally we satisfy our need for funding from funds generated from operations, our revolving credit facility with City National Bank, and proceeds from issuance of the following Senior Notes: in January 2013, we raised approximately $46.0 million from the sale of our 2013 Senior Notes (which were redeemed in December 2017); in January 2014, we raised approximately $48.3 million from the sale of our 2014 Senior Notes; and, in November 2017, we raised an additional $50.0 million from the sale of our 2017 Senior Notes. In the event that existing internal and external financial resources were not to satisfy our needs, we would have to seek additional outside financing. The availability of outside financing would depend on a variety of factors, such as our financial condition and results of operations, the availability of acceptable collateral, market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, and the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry.. Widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, could adversely affect our ability to borrow on an unsecured basis. Disruptions in the credit markets could make it more difficult and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. If our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing and taking principal positions.. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to financial services firms, including ours. Failures of financial institutions have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity. Liquidity is of particular importance to our sales and trading business, and perceived liquidity issues may affect the willingness of our clients and counterparties to engage in sales and trading transactions with us. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our sales and trading clients, third parties or us. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time.. 20. Table of Contents. Clients that engage us with respect to merger and acquisition transactions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. The lack of available credit and the increased cost of credit could adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients’ mergers and acquisitions, particularly in the case of large transactions, and adversely affect our investment banking business and revenues.. Increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was approximately $95.9 million, consisting of $45.9 million in principal amount of 8.00% Senior Notes due 2023 and $50.0 million principal amount of 7.25% Senior Notes due 2027. This indebtedness does not include asset-backed securities of CLO III or CLO IV, nor the warehouse credit facility related to CLO V, all of which are consolidated in our financial statements, together with the loans collateralizing the asset-backed securities of the CLOs and the loans funded by the CLO V warehouse facility, even though the CLOs are bankruptcy-remote entities with no recourse to us. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you, because:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tit could affect our ability to satisfy our financial obligations, including those relating to the Senior Notes and outstanding borrowings under our credit facility;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tit may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tit may limit our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tit may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tit may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general.. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. If we fail to make a payment on the Senior Notes or fail to maintain a minimum level of liquidity, we could be in default on the Senior Notes, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. Conversely, a default on our other outstanding indebtedness may cause a default under the Senior Notes. In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future; and, as a result, the related risks that we now face, including those described above, could intensify. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the debt outstanding under the related agreement. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. The indentures for the Senior Notes do not restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness.. We may not receive any return on our investment in the CLOs in which we have invested, and we may be unable to raise additional CLOs.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $48.1million par value invested in the subordinated securities issued by CLOs managed by JMP Credit Advisors. Subject to market conditions, we expect to continue to acquire subordinated securities of CLOs managed by JMP Credit Advisors (and/or third-party managers). These subordinated securities are the most junior class of securities issued by the CLOs and are subordinated in priority of payment to the senior securities issued by these CLOs. Therefore, they only receive cash distributions if the CLOs have made all cash interest payments to all other debt securities issued by the CLOs and are in compliance with their interest and over-collateralization coverage tests. Consequently, to the extent that the value of a CLO’s loan portfolio has been reduced as a result of conditions in the credit markets, such as defaulted loans or excess triple C-rated loans, the value of the subordinated securities could be reduced. Additionally, we may not be able to continue to complete new CLOs due to prevailing CLO market conditions or other factors.. Our net interest income may decline if we are unable to reinvest our cash to generate a rate of return similar to what we historically received from our investments in CLO I and CLO II, or we are unable to reduce our long-term debt.. Our net interest income decreased $6.5 million, or 46.7%, from $14.0 million for 2016 to $7.5 million for 2017. This decrease in net interest income is primarily attributed to the liquidation of our CLO I and CLO II loan portfolios. We may be subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest our cash to generate a rate of return similar to that which we have historically received from our investments in CLO I and CLO II or to the extent that or we are unable to reduce our long-term debt. If we do not find a suitable investment opportunity for our remaining cash, we may receive less net interest income than we have received in past years when our cash balance was smaller.. 21. Table of Contents. We expect to enter into warehouse agreements or total return swaps in connection with our potential investments in, and management of, CLOs and other investment products, which may expose us to substantial risks.. In connection with our potential investment in and management of new CLOs and other investment products, we expect to enter into warehouse agreements and total return swaps with banks or other financial institutions, pursuant to which the warehouse or total return swap provider will finance the purchase of investments that will be ultimately included in a CLO or other investment product. For CLOs, these investments are primarily comprised of senior secured corporate loans rated below investment grade. Securities rated below investment grade are often referred to as “leveraged loans” or “high yield” securities, and may be considered “high risk” compared to debt instruments that are rated investment grade. We will typically select the investments in the warehouse or total return swap, subject to the approval of the provider. If the relevant CLO transaction or other investment product is not consummated or issued, the investments may be liquidated, and we may lose some or all of our equity or first-loss investment in the warehouse or total return swap if the value of the loans held decreases. In addition, regardless of whether the CLO or other investment product is consummated or issued, if any of the warehoused investments are sold before such consummation or issuance, we would have to bear any resulting loss on the sale. The amount at risk in connection with a warehouse will vary and may not be limited to the amount, if any, that we invest in the related CLO or other investment product upon its consummation or issuance. The exposure in connection with a total return swap is the initial deposit plus any margin call amounts. Although we would expect to complete the issuance of a particular CLO or other investment product within six to nine months after establishing a related warehouse or total return swap, we may not be able to complete the issuance within the expected time period or at all.. Changes in CLO spreads and an adverse market environment could continue to make it difficult for us to launch new CLOs.. The ability to issue new CLOs is dependent, in part, on the amount by which the interest earned on the investments held by the CLO exceeds the interest payable by the CLO on the debt obligations it issues to investors, as well as the CLO’s other expenses, in addition to other factors. If this excess (also known as a CLO’s “arbitrage”) is not sufficient, it is difficult to raise equity capital for a new CLO. There may be sustained periods when market conditions are not sufficient for us to sponsor new CLOs, which could materially impair the growth of our business. During the past financial crisis, there was a dislocation in the credit markets that significantly impeded CLO formation. Although market conditions have improved, the dislocation in credit markets could return and continue for a significant period of time. Renewed dislocation of these markets could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Defaults, downgrades and depressed market values of the collateral underlying CLOs may cause the decline in, and deferral of, investment advisory income and the reduction of assets under management.. Under the collateral management agreements between JMP Credit Advisors and the CLOs it manages, payment of management fees is generally subject to a “waterfall” structure. Pursuant to these “waterfalls,” all or a portion of the subordinated management fees may be deferred if, among other things, the CLOs do not generate sufficient cash flows to pay the required interest on the senior notes they have issued to investors and certain expenses they have incurred. Deferrals could occur if the credit quality of the issuers of the collateral underlying the CLOs deteriorates or they default on or defer payments of principal or interest relating to such collateral. Due to severe levels of defaults and delinquencies on the assets underlying certain of the CLOs managed by us, in the past we have experienced both declines in and deferrals of management fees. Further, during such periods and pursuant to the waterfalls, the CLOs may be required to repay certain of these liabilities, which repayment permanently reduces our assets under management and related investment advisory fees pursuant to which we can recoup deferred subordinated fees. If similar defaults and delinquencies resume, we could experience additional declines in and deferrals of management fees.. Additionally, all or a portion of our investment advisory fees from the CLOs that we manage may be deferred if such CLOs fail to satisfy certain “over-collateralization” tests. Pursuant to the “waterfall” structure discussed above, such failures generally require cash flows to be diverted to prepay certain of the CLO’s liabilities, resulting in similar permanent reductions in assets under management and investment advisory fees with respect to such CLOs. Defaulted assets and assets that have been severely downgraded are generally carried at a reduced value for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. In some CLOs, these assets are required to be carried at their market value for purposes of over-collateralization tests. Due to exceptionally high levels of defaults, severe downgrades and depressed market values of the collateral underlying certain CLOs managed by us, some CLOs have breached their over-collateralization tests, and we have therefore experienced, and may experience in the future, declines in, and deferrals of, management fees, having a material and adverse effect on us.. We are subject to net capital and other regulatory capital requirements; failure to comply with these rules would significantly harm our business.. JMP Securities, our broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the net capital requirements of the SEC, FINRA and various self-regulatory organizations of which it is a member. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also mandate that a significant part of its assets be kept in relatively liquid form. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm to limitation of its activities, including suspension or revocation of its registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by FINRA and other regulatory bodies, and ultimately may require its liquidation. Failure to comply with the net capital rules could have material and adverse consequences, such as:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our operations that require intensive use of capital, such as underwriting or trading activities; or. 22. Table of Contents. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestricting us from withdrawing capital from our subsidiaries when our broker-dealer subsidiary has more than the minimum amount of required capital; this, in turn, could limit our ability to implement our business and growth strategies, pay interest on and repay the principal of our debt and/or repurchase our shares.. In addition, a change in the net capital rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of net capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or any large charge against net capital, could have similar adverse effects.. As a holding company, JMP Group LLC depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund distribution payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. As a result, regulatory actions could impede access to funds that JMP Group LLC needs to make payments on obligations, including debt obligations, or to make distribution payments. In addition, because JMP Group LLC holds equity interests in the firm’s subsidiaries, its rights as an equity holder to the assets of these subsidiaries may not materialize, if at all, until the claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries are first satisfied.. There are contractual, legal and other restrictions that may prevent us from paying cash distributions on our shares and, as a result, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your shares for a price greater than the price for which you paid.. Although we paid a quarterly dividend on our shares from the time of our initial public offering through 2014, and began making monthly cash distributions in the first quarter of 2015, there can be no assurance that in the future sufficient cash will be available for us to pay distributions on our shares to our shareholders. Our board of directors may at any time modify or revoke our current distribution policy. Any decision to declare and pay distributions in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We do not intend to borrow funds in order to pay distributions. In addition, JMP Group LLC, the entity from which we make our distribution payments, is a holding company that does not conduct any significant business operations of its own, and, therefore, it is dependent upon cash distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to make distribution payments on its shares. The amounts available to us to pay cash distributions are restricted by existing and future debt agreements. In general, under the credit agreement governing our revolving lines of credit and term loans with City National Bank, we are restricted under certain circumstances from making distributions if an event of default has occurred under that agreement. The Senior Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, as supplemented, with U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee. The indenture contains a minimum liquidity covenant that obligates us to maintain liquidity of at least an amount equal to the lesser of (i) the aggregate amount due on the next eight scheduled quarterly interest payments on the 2013 Senior Notes or (ii) the aggregate amount due on all remaining scheduled quarterly interest payments on the 2013 Senior Notes until the maturity of the 2013 Senior Notes. The indenture also contains customary event of default and cure provisions. If an uncured default occurs and is continuing, the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Senior Notes may declare the Senior Notes immediately due and payable. SEC regulations also provide that JMP Securities may not pay cash distributions to us if certain minimum net capital requirements are not met. In addition, Delaware law permits the declaration of distributions only to the extent of our surplus (which is defined as total assets at fair market value, minus total liabilities, minus statutory capital) or, if there is no surplus, out of our net profits for the then current and/or immediately preceding fiscal years. In the event that we do not pay cash distributions on our shares as a result of these restrictions, you may not receive any return on an investment in our shares unless you sell your shares for a price greater than the price for which you purchased them.. We may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies.. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. Our investing and trading processes seek to balance our ability to profit from investment and trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. While we employ limits and other risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate economic and financial outcomes or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Thus, we may, in the course of our investment and trading activities, incur losses, which may be significant.. In addition, we are deploying our own capital in our funds and in principal investments, and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds or liquidate our investment positions, whether for legal, reputational, illiquidity or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments.. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks.. Our risk management strategies and techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. We seek to manage, monitor and control our operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be fully effective. Further, our risk management methods may not effectively predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than historical measures indicate. In addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate. A failure to adequately manage our growth, or to effectively manage our risk, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not meet their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, and breach of contract or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that our rights with regard to third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. As an introducing broker, we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. These may present credit concerns, and default risks may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect, foresee or reasonably guard against. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. If any of the variety of instruments, processes and strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses.. 23. Table of Contents. Our operations and infrastructure and those of the service providers upon which we rely, including other financial institutions or intermediaries, may malfunction or fail.. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of complex transactions and securities across numerous and diverse markets. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could constrain our ability to expand our businesses. If our financial, accounting, data processing, or other operating systems and facilities fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, we could suffer impairments, financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage.. We have outsourced certain aspects of our technology, administrative and operational infrastructure, including data centers, disaster recovery systems and wide area networks, as well as some trading applications. We are dependent on our service providers to manage and monitor those functions. A disruption of any of the outsourced services would be out of our control and could negatively impact our business. We have experienced disruptions on occasion, none of which have been material to our operations and results. However, there can be no guarantee that future disruptions will not occur, and any that may occur could be severe in nature. We also face the risk of operational failure, capacity constraints or termination of relations with any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions. As a result of the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives, should the need arise. Any such failure, constraint or termination of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions and manage our exposure to risk.. In addition, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may affect, among other things, our financial, accounting or other data processing systems. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with which we conduct business, whether due to fire, serious weather conditions, earthquakes or other natural disasters, power or communications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise. Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations in San Francisco, New York, Boston and Chicago work in close proximity to each other. Although we have a formal disaster recovery plan in place, if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be successful in implementing contingency plans that depend on communication or travel.. Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although cybersecurity incidents among financial services firms are on the rise, to date, we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyberattacks or other information security breaches; however, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Notwithstanding that we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code, and other events that could have a security impact. Breaches of our network security systems could involve attacks that are intended to obtain unauthorized access to our proprietary information, destroy data or disable, degrade or sabotage our systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses and other means, and could originate from a wide variety of sources, including unknown third parties outside the firm. Although we take various measures to ensure the integrity of our systems, there can be no assurance that these measures will provide protection. A cybersecurity incident affecting our computer systems, software and networks, or that of third-party vendors and clients, could subject us to significant liability and harm our reputation. If one or more of such events occur, this could jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured or not fully covered through any insurance we maintain. A technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators. If our systems are compromised, do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer a disruption of our business, financial losses, liability to clients, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation.. In providing services to our clients, we may manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data. As a result, we will be subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of personally identifiable information and international laws. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. Any breach of these laws and regulations could subject us to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Any disclosure of sensitive or confidential information or data could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients.. 24. Table of Contents. Associate misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subject us to significant legal liability and reputational harm.. There have been a number of highly-publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by associates in the financial services industry. There is a risk that our associates could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. For example, our business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. If our associates were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships, and ability to attract future clients. We are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our asset management business and our authority over the assets managed by our asset management business. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our associates would adversely affect our clients and us. It is not always possible to deter associate misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective. If our associates engage in misconduct, our business would be adversely affected.. We are subject to risks in using prime brokers and custodians.. Our asset management subsidiary and its managed funds depend on the services of prime brokers and custodians to settle and report securities transactions. In the event of the insolvency of a prime broker or custodian, our funds might not be able to recover equivalent assets in whole or in part, as they will rank among the prime broker’s and the custodian’s unsecured creditors in relation to assets that the prime broker or custodian borrows, lends or otherwise uses. In addition, cash held by our funds with the prime broker or custodian will not be segregated from the prime broker’s or custodian’s own cash, and the funds will therefore rank as unsecured creditors in relation thereto.. Strategic investments or acquisitions and joint ventures, or our entry into new business areas, may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business.. We intend to grow our core businesses both through internal expansion and through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures. When we make strategic investments, acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties in combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and the other members of a venture may negatively impact our businesses. In addition, future acquisitions or joint ventures may involve the issuance of additional shares, which may dilute your ownership in our firm. Furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities by us could entail a number of risks, including:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproblems with the effective integration of operations;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships and integrate new relationships;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased operating costs;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloss of key employees or customers;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trisks of misconduct by employees not subject to our control;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to manage any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texposure to new, unknown or unanticipated liabilities.. Any future growth of our business, such as further expansion of our asset management or principal investment activities, may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. In addition, expansions, acquisitions or joint ventures may require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. These capital, equity and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses.. Risks Related to Our Industry. Financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions.. Firms in the financial services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory environment, which we expect will become even more stringent in light of recent well-publicized failures of regulators to detect and prevent fraud. The industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulatory authorities, including the SEC, the NYSE, FINRA and state attorneys general. Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. This regulatory and enforcement environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of types of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of financial services, including, but not limited to, the authority to fine us and to grant, cancel, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on the right to carry on particular businesses. For example, a failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Exchange Act on broker-dealers and the Investment Advisers Act on investment advisers, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, or by the Investment Company Act could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage. We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities, or FINRA or other self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have adverse financial effects on us or cause reputational harm to us, which could harm our business prospects.. 25. Table of Contents. In addition, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts. The SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts of interest and regularly review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, appropriately addressing conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to appropriately address conflicts of interest. Our policies and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts of interest may also result in increased costs and additional operational personnel. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or litigation against us. For example, the research operations of investment banks have been and remain the subject of heightened regulatory scrutiny, which has led to increased restrictions on the interaction between equity research analysts and investment banking professionals at securities firms. Several securities firms in the U.S. reached a global settlement in 2003 and 2004 with certain federal and state securities regulators and self-regulatory organizations to resolve investigations into the alleged conflicts of interest of research analysts, which resulted in rules that have imposed additional costs and limitations on the conduct of our business.. Asset management businesses have experienced a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries that have resulted in increased scrutiny within the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds, investment advisors and broker-dealers. Although we do not act as an investment advisor to mutual funds, we are registered as an investment advisor with the SEC, and the regulatory scrutiny and rulemaking initiatives may result in an increase in operational and compliance costs or the assessment of significant fines or penalties against our asset management business and may otherwise limit our ability to engage in certain activities. In addition, the SEC staff has conducted studies with respect to soft dollar practices in the brokerage and asset management industries and has proposed interpretive guidance regarding the scope of permitted brokerage and research services in connection with soft dollar practices. The SEC staff has indicated that it is considering additional rulemaking in this and other areas, and we cannot predict the effect that additional rulemaking may have on our asset management or brokerage business or whether it will be adverse to us. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. Compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and could affect the manner in which we conduct business.. Recently enacted financial reforms and related regulations may negatively affect our business activities, financial position and profitability.. The Dodd-Frank Act institutes a wide range of reforms that will impact financial services firms and requires significant rule-making. In addition, the legislation mandates multiple studies, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action. The legislation and regulation of financial institutions, both domestically and internationally, include calls to increase capital and liquidity requirements, to limit the size and types of the activities permitted, and to increase taxes on some institutions. FINRA’s oversight of broker-dealers and investment advisors may be expanded, and new regulations on having investment banking and securities analyst functions in the same firm may be created. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to further rule-making procedures and studies and will take effect over several years. As a result, we cannot assess the impact of these new legislative and regulatory changes on our business at the present time. However, these legislative and regulatory changes could affect our revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, impact the value of assets that we hold, require us to change certain business practices, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. If we do not comply with current or future legislation and regulations that apply to our operations, we may be subject to fines, penalties or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred. Accordingly, such new legislation or regulation could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. Governmental fiscal and monetary policy could adversely affect our small business lending activities, financial position and profitability.. Our small business lending activities are affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”) regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the FRB are conducting open market operations, changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions, and changing reserve requirements against depository institutions’ deposits. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The FRB’s policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending, investing and capital raising activities and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin.. 26. Table of Contents. Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and damages and other costs that we may be required to pay in connection with litigation and regulatory inquiries, and the reputational harm that could result from legal action against us, could adversely affect our businesses.. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of potential liability to customers and to regulatory enforcement proceedings by state and federal regulators arising in the normal course of business. We and other participants in the financial services industry face significant legal risks in our businesses, and in recent years the volume of claims and financial value of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. Dissatisfied clients regularly make claims against securities firms and their employees for, among other reasons, negligence, fraud, unauthorized trading, suitability, churning, failure to supervise, breach of fiduciary duty, employee errors, intentional misconduct, unauthorized transactions by traders, improper recruiting activity, and failures in the processing of securities transactions. These types of claims expose us to the risk of significant loss that may be difficult to assess or quantify, and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Acts of fraud are difficult to detect and deter, and, while we believe our supervisory procedures are reasonably designed to detect and prevent violations of applicable laws, rules and regulations, we cannot assure investors that our risk management procedures and controls will prevent losses from fraudulent activity. Additional risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, employment claims, potential liability for “fairness opinions” and other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions, and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. Generally, pursuant to applicable agreements, investors in our funds do not have legal recourse against us or HCS for underperformance or errors of judgment in connection with the funds, nor will any act or omission be a breach of duty to the fund or limited partner unless it constituted gross negligence or willful violation of law. At any point in time, the aggregate number of existing claims against us could be material. While we do not expect the outcome of any existing claims against us to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, we cannot assure you that these types of proceedings will not materially and adversely affect us. We do not carry insurance that would cover payments regarding these liabilities, with the exception of fidelity coverage with respect to certain fraudulent acts of our employees. In addition, our by-laws provide for the indemnification of our officers, directors and employees to the maximum extent permitted under Delaware law. In the future, we may be the subject of indemnification assertions under these documents by our officers, directors or employees who have or may become defendants in litigation. These claims for indemnification may subject us to substantial risks of potential liability.. As an investment banking and asset management firm, we depend to a large extent on our reputation for integrity and high-quality professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it can be more damaging to our business than it would be to another sort of business. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important underwriting or merger and acquisition transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with merger and acquisition and other transactions. Therefore, our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including stockholders of our clients, who could bring securities class actions against us. Our investment banking engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services; however, there can be no assurance that these provisions will protect us or be enforceable in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. We have in the past been, currently are, and may in the future be subject to such securities litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could harm our results of operations or cause reputational harm to us, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. In addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the defense of litigation has increased costs associated with attorneys’ fees. Outside attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation could be substantial and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations as such fees arise. Securities class action litigation in particular is highly complex and can extend for a protracted period of time, thereby substantially increasing the costs incurred to resolve any such litigation.. Our failure to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business.. As we have expanded the number and scope of our businesses, we increasingly confront potential conflicts of interest relating to our and our funds’ and clients’ investment and other activities. Certain of our funds have overlapping investment objectives, including funds which have different fee structures, and potential conflicts may arise with respect to our decisions regarding how to allocate investment opportunities among ourselves and those funds. For example, a decision to acquire material non-public information about a company while pursuing an investment opportunity for a particular fund gives rise to a potential conflict of interest when it results in our having to restrict our own ability or the ability of other funds to take any action.. In addition, there may be conflicts of interest regarding investment decisions for funds in which our officers, directors and employees, who have made and may continue to make significant personal investments in a variety of funds, are personally invested. Similarly, conflicts of interest may exist or develop regarding decisions about the allocation of specific investment opportunities between the Company and the funds.. We also have potential conflicts of interest with our investment banking and institutional clients, including situations in which our services to a particular client or to our own proprietary or fund investments conflict or are perceived to conflict with the interests of a client. It is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to investor or client dissatisfaction or litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest would have a material adverse effect on our reputation, which would materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including redemptions by our investors from our hedge funds, an inability to raise additional funds, and a reluctance of counterparties to do business with us.. Misconduct by our employees or by the employees of our business partners could harm us and is difficult to detect and prevent.. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our firm. For example, misconduct could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. Our ability to detect and prevent misconduct by entities with which we do business may be even more limited. We may suffer reputational harm for any misconduct by our employees or those entities with which we do business.. 27. Table of Contents. If we were deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have an adverse effect on our business and the price of our shares.. We are not an investment company under the Investment Company Act. However, if we were to cease operating and controlling the business and affairs of JMP Securities and HCS, or if either of these subsidiaries were deemed to be an investment company, our interest in those entities could be deemed an investment security for purposes of the Investment Company Act. We intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company. However, we do commit some of our capital to principal investments. In addition, recent “risk retention” regulations in the European Union and under the Dodd-Frank Act require us to invest in the subordinated notes of the CLOs that we manage. If we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and would harm our business and the price of our shares.. Tax Risks to Holders of our Shares. If JMP Group LLC fails to satisfy the “qualifying income exception,” all of its income will be subject to an entity-level tax, which could result in a material reduction in cash flow and after-tax return for holders of our shares and, thus, could result in a substantial reduction in the value of those shares.. Under current law and assuming full compliance with the terms of the Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of JMP Group LLC (the “LLC agreement”) (and other relevant documents) and based upon factual representations that were made by us, we received an opinion of Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP (“Orrick”) to the effect that JMP Group LLC will be treated as a partnership, and not as an association or a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The factual representations that were made by us upon which Orrick relied relate to our organization, operation, assets, activities, income (including our ability to satisfy the qualifying income exception discussed below) and present and future conduct of our operations. Opinions of counsel, however, are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), and no assurance can be given that the IRS will not assert, or that a court would not sustain, a contrary position.. In general, if a partnership is “publicly traded” (as defined in the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”)), it will be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A publicly traded partnership will, however, be taxed as a partnership, and not as a corporation, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, so long as 90% or more of its gross income for each taxable year constitutes “qualifying income” within the meaning of Section 7704(d) of the Code. We refer to this exception as the “qualifying income exception.” Qualifying income generally includes rents, dividends, interest (to the extent such interest is neither derived from the conduct of a trade or business nor based, directly or indirectly, upon income or profits of any person), and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of stocks, bonds and real property. Qualifying income also includes other income derived from the business of investing in, among other things, stocks and securities.. If JMP Group LLC fails to satisfy the “qualifying income exception” described above, items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit would not pass through to you, and you would be treated for U.S. federal (and certain state and local) income tax purposes as a shareholder in a corporation. In such case, JMP Group LLC would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates on all of its income. In addition, JMP Group LLC would likely be liable for state and local income and/or franchise taxes on all of its income. Distributions to holders of shares would constitute ordinary income taxable to such holders to the extent of JMP Group LLC’s earnings and profits, and these distributions would not be deductible by JMP Group LLC. Taxation of JMP Group LLC as a corporation could result in a material reduction in cash flow and after-tax return for holders of shares and, thus, could result in a substantial reduction in the value of those shares.. Complying with certain tax-related requirements may cause JMP Group LLC to forego otherwise attractive business or investment opportunities.. In order for JMP Group LLC to satisfy the qualifying income exception described above, at least 90% of its gross income each taxable year is required to consist of interest, dividends, capital gains and other types of “qualifying income.” Interest income will not be qualifying income for the purposes of the qualifying income exception if it is derived from the conduct of a trade or business or is based, directly or indirectly, upon the income or profits of any person. This requirement will limit JMP Group LLC’s (and certain of its subsidiaries’) ability to originate loans. In addition, it is intended that JMP Group LLC (and its subsidiaries) will operate so as to avoid generating a significant amount of income that is treated as effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business with respect to non-U.S. holders. In order to comply with these requirements, JMP Group LLC (or its subsidiaries) may be required to invest through non-U.S. or domestic corporations or forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Thus, compliance with these requirements may adversely affect JMP Group LLC’s ability to maximize revenue or net income.. We could incur a significant tax liability if the IRS successfully asserts that the “anti-stapling” rules apply to JMP Group LLC’s investments in JMP Group Inc. and certain of our non-U.S. CLO issuers, which could result in a reduction in cash flow and after-tax return for holders of shares and, thus, could result in a reduction of the value of those shares.. If JMP Group LLC were subject to the “anti-stapling” rules of Section 269B of the Code, we would incur a significant tax liability as a result of owning more than 50% of the value of both a domestic corporate subsidiary and a non-U.S. CLO issuer. If the “anti-stapling” rules applied following the Reorganization Transaction, pursuant to which JMP Group Inc. became a wholly owned subsidiary of JMP Group LLC (the “Reorganization Transaction”),  our non-U.S. CLO issuers that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes would be treated as domestic corporations, which would cause those entities to be subject to U.S. federal corporate income taxation, and JMP Group LLC and the non-U.S. CLO issuers would be treated as a single entity for purposes of U.S. federal corporate income taxation. Because we intend that JMP Group LLC will own, or be treated as owning, a substantial proportion of its assets directly for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we do not believe that the “anti-stapling” rules will apply. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS would not successfully assert a contrary position, which could result in a reduction in cash flow and after-tax return for holders of shares and a reduction in the value of those shares.. 28. Table of Contents. You will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on your share of JMP Group LLC’s taxable income, regardless of whether or when you receive any cash distributions from JMP Group LLC.. JMP Group LLC intends to be treated, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as a partnership and not as an association or a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. Provided that the qualifying income exception is met, you will be subject to U.S. federal income taxation and applicable state, local and foreign income taxation on your allocable share of JMP Group LLC’s taxable income, regardless of whether or when you receive cash distributions. In addition, certain of our investments, including investments in non-U.S. CLO issuers and debt securities, may produce taxable income without corresponding distributions of cash to us or produce taxable income prior to or following the receipt of cash relating to such income. You will be required to take such income into account in determining your taxable income, and you may not receive cash distributions equal to your tax liability attributable to your allocation of JMP Group LLC’s taxable income.. Your ability to deduct certain expenses of JMP Group LLC may be limited.. In general, expenses incurred by JMP Group LLC that are considered “miscellaneous itemized deductions” may be deducted by a holder of shares of JMP Group LLC that is an individual, estate or trust only to the extent that a holder’s allocable share of those expenses, along with the holder’s other miscellaneous itemized deductions, exceed, in the aggregate, 2% of the holder’s adjusted gross income. Additionally, in the case of individuals whose adjusted gross income exceeds a specified amount, miscellaneous itemized deductions in excess of the 2% threshold, when combined with certain of the individual taxpayer’s other itemized deductions, generally will be reduced by the lesser of (i) 3% of the holder’s adjusted gross income in excess of a threshold amount or (ii) 80% of the amount of itemized deductions otherwise allowable for such year. In addition, these expenses are also not deductible in determining the alternative minimum tax liability of a holder. Your inability to deduct all or a portion of such expenses, among other things, could result in an amount of taxable income to you with respect to JMP Group LLC that exceeds the amount of cash actually distributed to you for the year.. In the case of a disposition of shares of JMP Group LLC, debt of JMP Group LLC must be taken into account under the partnership tax accounting rules.. Subsequent to the Reorganization Transaction, JMP Group LLC incurred debt (including a 30-year promissory note (the “Promissory Note”)) for a variety of reasons. Under partnership tax accounting principles (which will apply to JMP Group LLC if the qualifying income exception is met), debt of JMP Group LLC generally will be allocable to holders of shares of JMP Group LLC, and the holders will include their respective allocable shares of the debt in the U.S. federal income tax basis of their shares of JMP Group LLC. A holder's U.S. federal income tax basis in shares will be adjusted for, among other things, distributions of cash and allocations of items of JMP Group LLC’s income, gain, loss and deduction. At the time when a holder of shares of JMP Group LLC later sells its shares, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the holder’s amount realized on the sale will include not only the sales price of the shares but also the holder’s portion of outstanding indebtedness incurred by JMP Group LLC subsequent to the Reorganization Transaction that is allocable to those shares.. Tax-exempt holders of shares of JMP Group LLC will likely recognize significant amounts of “unrelated business taxable income.”. An organization that is otherwise exempt from U.S. federal income taxation is nonetheless subject to U.S. federal income taxation with respect to its “unrelated business taxable income” (“UBTI”). Because we recently incurred “acquisition indebtedness” (such as the Promissory Note) with respect to certain equity and debt securities we hold (either directly or indirectly through subsidiaries that are treated as partnerships or disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes), a proportionate share of your income from JMP Group LLC with respect to such securities will be treated as UBTI. Accordingly, tax-exempt holders of shares of JMP Group LLC will likely recognize significant amounts of UBTI. For certain types of tax-exempt entities, the receipt of any UBTI would have adverse consequences. Tax-exempt holders of our shares are strongly urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the tax consequences of owning our shares.. There can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert successfully that some portion of JMP Group LLC’s income is properly treated as effectively connected income with respect to non-U.S. holders.. While it is expected that JMP Group LLC’s method of operation will not result in the generation of significant amounts of income treated as effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business with respect to non-U.S. holders of our shares, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert successfully that some portion of JMP Group LLC’s income is properly treated as effectively connected income with respect to such non-U.S. holders. To the extent that JMP Group LLC’s income is treated as effectively connected income, non-U.S. holders generally would be required to (i) file a U.S. federal income tax return reporting their allocable shares of JMP Group LLC’s taxable income or loss effectively connected with such trade or business and (ii) pay U.S. federal income tax at regular U.S. tax rates on any such taxable income. Non-U.S. holders that are corporations also would be required to pay a U.S. federal branch profits tax at a rate of 30% (or lower rate provided by applicable treaty).. 29. Table of Contents. Dividends paid by, or certain income inclusions derived with respect to, foreign entities owned by JMP Group LLC that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes may not qualify for the reduced tax rates generally applicable to corporate distributions paid to taxpayers taxed at individual rates.. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate on certain corporate dividends payable to non-corporate taxpayers is currently 20%. Dividends payable by, or certain income inclusions derived with respect to the ownership of, passive foreign investment companies (“PFICs”) and certain controlled foreign corporations (“CFCs”), however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. We have treated and intend to continue to treat certain of our foreign CLO issuers taxed as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes as the type of CFCs for which income inclusions are not eligible for lower tax rates on dividend income. The more favorable U.S. federal income tax rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in PFICs or CFCs, or in companies like us with a substantial portion of our holdings in foreign corporations, to be relatively less attractive than holdings in the stocks of non-CFC and non-PFIC corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of our shares.. Although we anticipate that our foreign CLO issuers will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a net income basis, no assurance can be given that such CLO issuers will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a net income basis in any given taxable year.. We anticipate that our foreign CLO issuers that are taxed as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes generally will continue to conduct their activities in such a way as not to be deemed to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business and not to be subject to U.S. federal income tax. There can be no assurance, however, that our foreign CLO issuers will not pursue investments or engage in activities that may cause them to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that, as a result of any change in applicable law, treaty, rule or regulation or interpretation thereof, the activities of any of our foreign CLO issuers will not become subject to U.S. federal income tax. Further, there can be no assurance that unanticipated activities of our foreign CLO issuers will not cause such entities to become subject to U.S. federal income tax. If any of our foreign CLO issuers became subject to U.S. federal income tax (including the U.S. federal branch profits tax), it would significantly reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to us, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our shares. Although our foreign CLO issuers generally are not expected to be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a net income basis, such entities may receive income that is subject to withholding taxes imposed by the U.S. or other countries.. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the Reorganization Transaction because of, among other reasons, changes in tax laws.. Many factors could affect some or all of the anticipated benefits of the Reorganization Transaction. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of holders of shares of JMP Group LLC depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. You also should be aware that the U.S. federal income tax rules are constantly under review by the IRS, resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts. The IRS pays close attention to the proper application of tax laws to partnerships and investments in non-U.S. entities. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in shares of JMP Group LLC may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time, and any such action may affect investments and commitments previously made. We and holders of shares of JMP Group LLC could be adversely affected by any such change or by new U.S. federal income tax laws, regulations or interpretations. Our organizational documents and agreements permit our board of directors to modify the LLC agreement from time to time, without the consent of the holders of shares of JMP Group LLC, in order to address certain changes in U.S. federal income tax laws, regulations or interpretation. In some circumstances, such revisions could have an adverse impact on some or all of the holders of shares. Moreover, we intend to apply certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with applicable rules and to report income, gain, deduction, loss and credit to you in a manner that reflects your distributive share of JMP Group LLC’s items, including the monthly convention pursuant to which items of taxable income, gain, loss deduction and credit generally will be determined annually and will be prorated on a monthly basis, but these assumptions and conventions may not be in compliance with all aspects of applicable tax requirements. It is possible that the IRS may assert successfully that the conventions and assumptions we use do not satisfy the technical requirements of the Code and/or the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder and could require that items of income, gain, deduction, loss or credit be adjusted or reallocated in a manner that adversely affects holders of shares of JMP Group LLC."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
