[1] "Item 1A  -  Risk Factors. We face a number of significant risks and uncertainties, and therefore, an investment in our Common Stock is subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. While each risk is described separately, some of these risks are interrelated and it is possible that certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. Also, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we view as not rising to the level of being material, could also potentially impair our business, results of operations and financial condition. Investors should consider the following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Part II, Item 7  -  \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources\" before deciding to purchase our Common Stock.. We Cannot Control the Availability or Cost of Raw Materials and this May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Financial Condition. The availability and cost of raw materials for the production of our products, including peanuts, pecans, almonds, cashews, walnuts and other nuts are subject to crop size and yield fluctuations caused by factors beyond our control, such as weather conditions, natural disasters (including floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes and hurricanes), changing climate patterns, plant diseases, foreign currency fluctuations, trade agreements, tariffs and embargos, import/export controls, political change and unrest, changes in global customer demand, changes in government agricultural programs and purchasing behavior of certain countries, including China and India. Additionally, any determination by the USDA or other government agencies that certain pesticides, herbicides or other chemicals used by growers have left harmful residues on portions of the crop or that any portion of the crop has been contaminated by aflatoxin or other agents, or any future product recalls for other reasons could reduce the supply of edible nuts and other raw materials used in our products and could cause our costs to increase significantly.. Because these raw materials are commodities, their prices are set by the market and can therefore fluctuate quickly and dramatically due to varied events, such as those described above. Furthermore, we are not able to hedge against changes in nut commodity prices because no appropriate futures, derivative or other risk-sharing market for these commodities exists. Consequently, in order to achieve or maintain profitability levels, we attempt to increase the prices of our products to reflect the increase in the costs of the raw materials that we use and sell. However, we may not be successful in passing along partial or full price increases to our customers, if at all. In addition, even if we are successful in passing across partial or full price increases, we may not be able to do so in a timely fashion. Our ability to raise prices and the timing of any price increases is often dependent upon the actions of our competitors, some of whom are significantly larger and more diversified than we are or own farms which produce the raw materials. Additionally, any such product price increase that we are able to pass along to our customers may ultimately reduce the demand for, and sales of, our products as customers reduce purchases or buy lower priced products. Alternatively, if the prices of any raw materials significantly decrease and we have inventories of such materials on hand, we may be unable to reduce product prices without impacting our gross margin. Any competitors who purchase such material on the open market or own the farms which produce the raw materials may be able to reduce prices in a more timely manner, and we could lose market share to such competitors. Any one or more of the foregoing aspects may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Moreover, fluctuations in the market prices of nuts may affect the value of our inventories and profitability. We maintain significant inventories of nuts, and our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any significant decrease in the market price of such raw materials. See Part II, Item 7  -  \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources\".. Significant Private Brand Competitive Activity Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Some customer buying decisions, including some of our largest customers, are based upon a periodic bidding process in which the single, successful bidder is assured the selling of the selected product to the food retailer, supercenter or mass merchandiser until the next bidding process to the exclusion of other bidders. Our sales volume may decrease significantly if our bids are too high and we lose the ability to sell products through these channels, even temporarily. Alternatively, we risk reducing our margins if our bids are successful but below our desired price points. In addition, margins could be further reduced if commodity prices subsequently rise and customers are unwilling or unable to accept price increases. Should any of our significant customers elect to introduce or expand their private brand programs, and we do not participate in such programs or the programs directly compete against our branded products, our sales volume could be negatively impacted. Any of these outcomes may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 5. Our Inability to Manage Successfully the Price Gap Between our Private Brand Snack Nut Products and Those of our Branded Competitors May Materially and Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. Although demand for private brand snack nut products (and our private brand snack nut products in particular) has increased, our competitors' branded snack nut products have certain advantages over our private brand snack nut products primarily due to their advertising strategies, perceived product attributes, name recognition and pricing flexibility.. At the retail level, private brand snack nut products generally sell at a discount to those of branded competitors. If branded competitors reduce the price of their products, the price of branded snack nut products offered to consumers may approximate the prices of our private brand snack nut products. Further, promotional activities by branded competitors such as temporary price reductions, retailer credits, buy-one-get-one-free offerings and coupons, have the same general effect as price decreases. Price decreases initiated by branded competitors could result in a decline in the demand for our private brand snack nut products, which could negatively impact our sales volumes and overall profitability. Such sales volume and profitability decreases could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, many of our competitors with significant branded operations have more diversified product offerings among a wider variety of food categories than we have. Such competitors could, as a result of their size or diversified offerings, be in a better position to decrease their prices or offer better promotions for their branded snack nut products. If competitors are able to exploit their size or diversification to make significant price reductions and offer better promotions, it could decrease our private brand snack nut sales, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Changing Consumer Preferences and Demand Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products to our customers that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences, whether for branded products or private brand products or how consumers purchase such products, can quickly change based on a number of factors beyond our control. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react quickly to these changes and are unable to develop and market new and improved products to meet consumer preferences, demand for our products could suffer. In addition, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns regarding the health effects of nutrients or ingredients in any of our products. The development and introduction of new products requires substantial research and development, testing and marketing expenditures, which we may be unable to fully recover if the new products do not achieve the necessary commercial success. New product introduction also results in increased costs, including from the use of new manufacturing techniques, capital expenditures, new raw materials and ingredients, and additional marketing and trade spending. Consumers are also purchasing food products outside traditional retail supermarkets, including via the Internet. If we are unable to provide our customers with our products outside traditional retail supermarkets, demand for our products could suffer. Reduction in demand as a result of changing consumer preferences or inability to provide consumers with products they demand could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Negative Consumer Perception About Our Company or Branded Products Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our ability to develop, maintain and continually enhance the value of our Company and our branded products is critical to improving our operating and financial performance and implementing our Strategic Plan. The value of our Company and our branded products is based in large part on the degree to which consumers react and respond positively to our operations and our brands. Positive views of our Company and our brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible or reckless manner, negative perception about the actions or values of our Company, adverse publicity about our products (whether actual or fictitious), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, concerns about food safety or allergies, or our products becoming unavailable to consumers.. In addition, our success in enhancing the value of our Company and our branded products depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment. We increasingly rely on social media and online advertising campaigns as well as advertising outside of traditional print and television channels. Negative posts or comments (whether actual or fictitious) about us or the type of products we produce, market or sell on online social networks, product review sites or similar online activity could seriously impact consumer demand for our products. We are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how we market and advertise our products. These restrictions may limit our ability to respond as the media and communications environment continues to evolve. If we do not react appropriately, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 6. We Sometimes Enter Into Fixed Price Commitments without First Knowing Our Acquisition Costs, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We enter into fixed price commitments with a portion of our commercial ingredient sales customers and certain other customers. The commitments are for a fixed period of time, typically three months to twelve months, but may be extended if remaining balances exist. Such commitments with a term of six months or more represented approximately 5% of our annual net sales in fiscal 2018. Sometimes we enter into fixed price commitments with respect to certain of our nut products before fixing our acquisition costs in order to maintain customer relationships or when, in management's judgment, market or crop harvest conditions so warrant. To the extent we do so and our fixed prices are not properly aligned with our acquisition costs, then these fixed price commitments may result in reduced or negative gross profit margins which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our Generally Vertically Integrated Model Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We have a generally vertically integrated nut processing operation that enables us to control almost every step of the process for pecans, peanuts and walnuts, including procurement from growers. Our generally vertically integrated model has in the past resulted, and may in the future result, in significant losses because we are subject to the various risks associated with purchasing a majority of our pecans, peanuts and walnuts directly from growers, including the risk of purchasing such products from growers at costs that later, due to altered market conditions, prove to be above prevailing market prices at time of sale. Accordingly, because we purchase a majority of our pecans, peanuts and walnuts directly from growers during harvest season and shell and process these nuts throughout our fiscal year, there is a possibility that, after we acquire these nuts, market conditions may change and we will be forced to sell these nuts at reduced prices relative to our acquisition costs, or even at a loss which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. We Operate in a Competitive Environment Which Could Materially and Adversely Affect our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment. The principal areas of competition are, among others, brand recognition, taste, flavor, quality, packaging, price, advertising, promotion, convenience and service. Our principal products compete against food and snack products manufactured and sold by numerous regional, national and international companies, some of which are substantially larger and have greater resources than us, such as The Kraft Heinz Company (Planters brand) and Treehouse Foods, Inc. Most of our competitors that sell and market the other top branded snack nut products have committed more financial, marketing and other resources to such brands when compared to the resources spent by us on our brands. Additionally, many retail customers have continued to emphasize their own private label offerings as a key part of their strategy and may develop or expand their own private label nut and nut product offerings, to the exclusion of our branded products. Many of our competitors buy their nuts on the open market and are thus not exposed to the risks of purchasing inshell pecans, peanuts and walnuts directly from growers at fixed prices that later, due to altered market conditions, may prove to be above prevailing market prices. We also compete with other shellers in the commercial ingredient market and with regional processors in the retail and wholesale markets. In order to maintain or increase our market share, we must continue to price our products competitively and spend on marketing, advertising, new product innovation and shelf placement and slotting fees, which may cause a decline in gross profit margin if we are unable to increase sales volume as well as reduce our costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are Dependent Upon Certain Significant Customers Which Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Results of Operations. We are dependent on a few significant customers for a large portion of our total net sales, particularly in the consumer channel. Sales to our five largest customers represented approximately 60%, 60% and 62% of net sales in fiscal 2018, fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, respectively. There can be no assurance that all significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities, same product mix or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers may demand lower pricing, different packaging, larger marketing support, payments for retail space, establish private brands or request other terms of sale which negatively impact our profitability. A loss of one of our largest customers, a material decrease in purchases by one of our largest customers, the inability to collect a receivable from or a significant business interruption at one of our largest customers would result in decreased sales and would materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangibles could result in the incurrence of impairment charges and negatively impact our net worth.. At June 28, 2018, we had goodwill of $9.6 million and other intangible assets of $17.7 million. The net carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable). The net carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of customer relationships, brand names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable), net of accumulated amortization. Goodwill is not amortized but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. Amortized intangible assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable. Impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as increasing competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry earnings multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.), or the bankruptcy of a significant customer and could result in the incurrence of impairment charges and negatively impact our net worth.. 7. We are Subject to Customer Pricing Pressures and Retail Consolidation Trends Which Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. As the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and our retail customers grow larger, become more sophisticated and obtain more purchasing power, our retail customers are demanding lower pricing, especially private brand customers, and increased free or discounted promotional programs. Further, these retail customers may begin to place a greater emphasis on the lowest-cost supplier in making purchasing decisions, especially during periods of increased or variable raw material acquisition costs. An increased focus on the lowest-cost supplier could reduce the benefits of some of our competitive advantages, which include a focus on customer service, innovation, production capacity, category management and quality. As the retail environment consolidates, many customers are reducing inventories or focusing on a limited number of brands (often the number one or number two brand by market share) in making purchasing decisions. In addition, certain customers in the retail channel, such as dollar stores and other discount sellers, have become increasingly sophisticated and may demand similar pricing to retail grocery customers. As part of the retail consolidation trend, diversified companies with substantial Internet presences have increased their food offerings or purchased retail supermarkets to expand their grocery business, particularly as such companies focus on food delivery direct to consumers. Such companies have substantial pricing power and may focus on their products to the exclusion of our products. If we fail to respond to these trends, our sales volume growth could suffer, and it may become necessary to lower our prices and increase promotional support of our products, any of which would materially and adversely affect our gross profit and gross profit margin and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Food Safety, Allergy and Product Contamination Concerns Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. If consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the health or safety of nut products, particularly with respect to peanut and tree nut allergies, food borne illnesses or other food safety matters, this could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Individuals with nut allergies may be at risk of serious illness or death resulting from the consumption of our nut products, including consumption of other companies' products containing our products as an ingredient. Notwithstanding our existing food safety controls, we process peanuts and tree nuts on the same equipment, and there is no guarantee that our other products will not be cross-contaminated. Concerns generated by risks of peanut and tree nut cross-contamination and other food safety matters, including food borne illnesses, may discourage consumers from buying our products, cause production and delivery disruptions, or result in product recalls. Product safety issues (i) concerning products not manufactured, distributed or sold by us and (ii) concerning products we manufacture, distribute and sell, may materially and adversely affect demand for products in the nut industry as a whole, including products without actual safety problems. Decreases in demand for products in the industry generally could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cooling system at our Elgin, Illinois facility utilizes ammonia. If a leak in the system were to occur, there is a possibility that the inventory in cold storage at our Elgin, Illinois facility could be destroyed which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Product Liability, Product Recalls, Product Labeling and Product Advertising Claims May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations and Cash Flows. We face risks associated with product liability claims, product recalls and other liabilities in the event: (i) our food safety and quality control procedures are ineffective or fail, (ii) we procure products from third parties that are or become subject to a recall, regardless of whether or not our food safety and quality control procedures are ineffective or fail, (iii) our products cause injury or become adulterated or misbranded, (iv) our products are determined to be promoted or labeled in a misleading fashion or do not contain required labeling, (v) government authorities test our products and determine that they contain a contaminant or present a food safety risk, (vi) our products are tampered with, (vii) one of our competitors is subject to claims, recalls or other liabilities involving products similar to ours or (viii) federal, state or other government agencies or courts determine that our products could pose health risks or contain potentially harmful chemicals or other substances. In recent years, the food industry has been a target of litigation over product labeling and advertising, including nut products. Such litigation results in significant costs to defend and resolve. In addition, we do not control the labeling of other companies' products containing our products as an ingredient. A product recall of a sufficient quantity, a significant product liability judgment against us, a significant advertising-related liability or judgment against us or other safety concerns (whether actual or claimed) could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, could require us to re-label or re-package products, could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products and expose us to liabilities in excess of any insurance we maintain for such events. If these kinds of events were to occur, they would have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and, consequently, our results of operations and cash flows.. We are Dependent on Certain Key Personnel and the Loss of Any of Their Services Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations. Our future success will be largely dependent on the personal efforts of our senior operating management team, including Jeffrey T. Sanfilippo, Chief Executive Officer, Michael J. Valentine, Chief Financial Officer, Group President and Secretary, James A. Valentine, Senior Technical Officer and Jasper B. Sanfilippo, Jr., Chief Operating Officer, President and Assistant Secretary. We believe that the expertise and knowledge of these individuals in the industry, and in their respective fields, is a critical factor to our growth and success. Although some of our officers own significant amounts of our Class A Stock, these individuals have not entered. 8. into any employment or non-compete agreement with us, nor do we have key officer insurance coverage policies in effect. The departure of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects and that in turn would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so.. We are Subject to Government Regulation Which Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, the USDA, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") and other state, local and foreign authorities in jurisdictions where our products are manufactured, processed or sold. We are also subject to California's Proposition 65, which requires that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to certain chemicals deemed by the state of California to be dangerous. Among other things, these regulations govern the manufacturing, importation, processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising and labeling of our products. Our manufacturing and processing facilities and products are subject to periodic compliance inspections by federal, state, local and foreign authorities. We are also subject to environmental regulations governing the discharge of air emissions, water and food waste, the usage and storage of pesticides, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. Amendments to existing statutes and regulations, adoption of new statutes and regulations, increased production at our existing facilities as well as our expansion into new operations and jurisdictions, may require us to obtain additional licenses and permits and could require us to adapt or alter methods of operations at costs that could be substantial. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations may be time-consuming, expensive or costly to us in different ways and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as possible criminal sanctions, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Specifically, governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives, and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence the planting, location and size of certain crops, whether commodity products are traded, the volume and types of imports and exports, and the viability and volume of production of certain of our products. In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. Future government policies may adversely affect the supply of, demand for, and prices of our products, restrict our ability to do business in its existing and target markets, and negatively impact our revenues and operating results.. The Food Safety Modernization Act (\"FSMA\") gives the FDA expanded authorities over the safety of the national food supply, including increased inspections and mandatory recalls, as well as stricter enforcement actions, each of which could result in additional compliance costs and civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, withdrawals, recalls or seizures and confiscations. The FSMA further instructed the FDA to develop new rules and regulations, including the performance of hazard analyses, implementation of preventive plans to control hazards, and foreign supplier verification provisions. We currently have \"hazard analysis and critical control points\" (\"HACCP\") procedures in place that may appropriately address many of the existing or future concerns as a result of FSMA. The new FDA rules and regulations required us to change certain of our operational processes and procedures, and implement new ones. However, there could also be unforeseen issues, requirements and costs that arise from these new FDA rules and regulations. HACCP is a management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control of hazards from raw material production, procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product.. We are a publicly traded company and subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state governments as well as other regulatory entities. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, the Department of Justice and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. Failure to comply with any law or regulation could subject us to civil or criminal remedies, including fines and injunctions, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Operational, Legal, Economic, Political and Social Risks of Doing Business in Emerging Markets and Other Foreign Countries May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations. Approximately 38% of the dollar value of our total nut purchases for fiscal 2018 were made from foreign countries. We purchase our cashews from Vietnam, India, Brazil and certain West African countries and some of our pecans from Mexico. To this extent, we are exposed to various risks inherent in emerging markets, including increased governmental ownership and regulation of the economy, greater likelihood of inflation and adverse economic conditions, governmental attempts to control inflation, such as setting interest rates and maintaining wage and price controls, supply reduction into the United States from increased demand in foreign countries, international competition, compliance with, and subjection to, foreign laws, including our ability to protect our intellectual property, such as our brands, compliance with U.S. laws and regulations related to conduct in foreign countries, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, currency exchange rates, potential for contractual defaults or forced renegotiations on purchase contracts with limited legal recourse, tariffs, quotas, duties, import and export restrictions and other barriers to trade that may reduce our profitability or sales and civil unrest, armed hostilities and significant political instability.. 9. The existence of risks in emerging markets and other foreign countries could jeopardize or limit our ability to purchase sufficient supplies of cashews, pecans and other imported raw materials and limit our ability to make international sales, and may materially and adversely affect our results of operations by increasing the costs of doing business overseas.. The Way in Which We Measure Inventory May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations. We acquire our inshell nut inventories of pecans, peanuts and walnuts from growers and farmers in large quantities at harvest times, which are primarily during the second and third quarters of our fiscal year, and receive nut shipments in bulk truckloads. The weights of these nuts are measured using truck scales at the time of receipt, and inventories are recorded on the basis of those measurements. The nuts are then stored in bulk in large warehouses to be shelled or processed throughout the year. Bulk-stored nut inventories are relieved on the basis of continuous high-speed bulk weighing systems as the nuts are shelled or processed or on the basis of calculations derived from the weight of the shelled nuts that are produced. While we perform various procedures periodically to confirm the accuracy of our bulk-stored nut inventories, these inventories are estimates that must be periodically adjusted to account for positive or negative variations in quantities and yields, and such adjustments directly affect earnings. The quantities of each crop year bulk-stored nut inventories are generally shelled out over a ten to fifteen-month period, at which time revisions to any estimates, which historically averaged less than 1.0% of inventory purchases, are also recorded. The precise amount of our bulk-stored nut inventories is not known until the entire quantity of the particular nut is depleted, which may not necessarily occur every year. Prior crop year inventories may still be on hand as the new crop year inventories are purchased. The majority of bulk-stored nut inventories at June 28, 2018 will be processed during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and any adjustment to our bulk stored nut inventory quantity will be recorded at that time. There can be no assurance that any bulk stored nut inventory quantity adjustments will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future.. Certain of Our Stockholders Possess a Majority of Aggregate Voting Power in the Company and Members of The Sanfilippo Group Have Pledged a Substantial Amount of their Class A Stock, Which May Make a Takeover or Change in Control More or Less Difficult and Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. As of August 22, 2018, Jeffrey T. Sanfilippo, Jasper B. Sanfilippo, Jr., Lisa A. Sanfilippo, John E. Sanfilippo and James J. Sanfilippo (the \"Sanfilippo Group\") own or control Common Stock (one vote per share) and Class A Stock (ten votes per share on all matters other than the election of Common Stock directors) representing approximately a 51.0% voting interest in the Company. As of August 22, 2018, Michael J. Valentine and Mathias A. Valentine (the \"Valentine Group\") own or control Common Stock (one vote per share) and Class A Stock (ten votes per share on all matters other than the election of Common Stock directors) representing approximately a 24.0% voting interest in the Company. In addition, the Sanfilippo Group and the Valentine Group as holders of the Class A Stock are entitled to elect six Class A Directors which represents 67% of our entire Board of Directors. As a result, the Sanfilippo Group and the Valentine Group together are able to direct the election of a majority of the members to the Board of Directors. In addition, the Sanfilippo Group is able to exert certain influence on our business, or take certain actions, that cannot be counteracted by another stockholder or group of stockholders. The Sanfilippo Group is able to determine the outcome of nearly all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including any amendments to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws. The Sanfilippo Group has the power to prevent or cause dividends, or a change in control or sale of the Company, which may or may not be in the best interests of other stockholders, and can take other actions that may be less favorable to other stockholders and more favorable to the Sanfilippo Group, subject to applicable legal limitations, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, several members of the Sanfilippo Group that beneficially own a significant interest in our Company have pledged a substantial portion of the Company's Class A Stock that they own to secure loans made to them by commercial banks. If a stockholder defaults on any of its obligations under these pledge agreements or the related loan documents, these banks may have the right to sell the pledged shares. Such a sale could cause our Company's stock price to decline. Many of the occurrences that could result in a foreclosure of the pledged shares are out of our control and are unrelated to our operations. Because these shares are pledged to secure loans, the occurrence of an event of default could result in a sale of pledged shares that could cause a change of control of our Company, even when such a change may not be in the best interests of our stockholders, and it could also result in a default under certain material contracts to which we are a party, including an event of default under the Credit Agreement by and among the Company, Wells Fargo Capital Finance (f/k/a Wells Fargo Foothill, LLC), as the arranger and administrative agent and a syndicate of lenders, dated February 7, 2008 (as amended, the \"Credit Facility\"), which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 10. General Economic Conditions and Increased Production and Transportation Costs Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. General economic conditions and the effects of a recession, including uncertainty in economic conditions and an economic downturn, and political uncertainties, including political action or inaction having an impact on the economy, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations, results of operations and financial condition. These conditions may include, among other things, increasing transportation costs due to the current nationwide driver shortage as well as new federal regulations which require increased monitoring of a driver's allowed driving time using electronic monitoring technology, higher unemployment, increased commodity costs, increased raw material costs, increased packaging material prices, decreases or alterations in consumer demand, changes in buying patterns, adverse changes in tax rates, interest rate and capital market volatility, adverse changes in the purchasing power of the U.S. dollar and higher general water, energy, and fuel costs. Maintaining the prices of our products, initiating price increases (including passing along price increases for commodities used in our products) and increasing the demand for our products (especially when prices for our products are decreasing due to commodity price decreases), all of which are important to our plans to increase profitability, may be materially and adversely affected by general economic conditions and increases in production costs. Among other considerations, nuts and our other products are not essential products and therefore demand and sales volume could decrease. In addition, a general economic downturn could cause one or more of our vendors, suppliers, distributors and customers to experience cash flow problems and, therefore, such vendors, suppliers, distributors and customers may be forced to reduce their output, shut down their operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which in some cases would make it difficult for us to continue production of certain products, could require us to reduce sales of our products or could result in uncollectable accounts receivable. Financial difficulties or solvency problems at these vendors, suppliers and distributors could materially adversely affect their ability to supply us with products or adequate products, which could disrupt our operations. It may be difficult to find a replacement for certain vendors, suppliers, freight haulers or distributors without significant delay or increase in cost. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Litigation Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We have been the subject of litigation and investigations in the past, and we may become the subject of litigation and investigations in the future, which may include lawsuits or claims related to contracts, intellectual property, product recalls, product liability, the marketing and labeling of products, employment matters, wage and hour matters, environmental matters or other aspects of our business. Plaintiffs or regulatory bodies could seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to lawsuits and investigations is difficult to accurately estimate. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation and investigations may be expensive to defend and may divert time, money and management attention away from our operations and negatively impact our financial performance. We maintain insurance in amounts we believe to be adequate based on our business operations. However, we may incur claims or liabilities for which we are not insured, that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or that our insurers may raise various objections and exceptions to coverage. A judgment or settlement for significant monetary damages or requiring other significant changes to our business or assets could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from allegations or investigations may also adversely affect our reputation and the reputation of our products, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Technology Disruptions, Failures or Breaches Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We depend on information technology to maintain and streamline our operations, including, among other things, (i) interfacing with our locations, customers and suppliers, (ii) complying with financial reporting, legal and tax regulatory requirements, (iii) maintaining logistics, inventory control and monitoring systems and (iv) providing us with real-time feedback about our business. Like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, outages during replacement or upgrades, computer viruses, hardware failures, power outages, hackers, ransomware attacks, cyber risks and other security issues. We have technology security initiatives, cyber insurance and disaster recovery plans in place to mitigate our risk to these vulnerabilities, but these measures may not be adequate, particularly as the global dependence on technology increases and the sophistication of cyber threats increases. In addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches or disclosure of non-public information, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our customers, consumers, or suppliers.. In addition, we have outsourced several information technology support services and administrative functions to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach, or otherwise. While we or any third party service provider have not experienced any significant disruption, failure or breach impacting our information technology systems, any such disruption, failure or breach could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our Products are Processed at a Limited Number of Production Facilities and any Significant Disruption at any of Our Production Facilities or Disruption with a Third Party Supplier Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 11. Our products are shelled, manufactured or otherwise processed at our five production facilities. However, certain nut and nut-related products, including the shelling of peanuts, walnuts and pecans and processing and packaging of certain other products, are conducted only at a single location. If any of these production facilities experiences a disruption for any reason, including a work stoppage, power failure, fire, pandemic, terrorism or weather related condition or natural disaster, this could result in a significant reduction or elimination of the availability of some of our products. In addition, a dispute with, or disruption at, a significant third party supplier, service provider or distributor may impact our ability to produce, package, market, transport and sell our products. If we were not able to obtain alternate production, shelling or processing capability in a timely manner or on satisfactory terms, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Inability to Protect Our Intellectual Property or Avoid Intellectual Property Disputes Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our brand trademarks (such as our Fisher, Orchard Valley Harvest, Squirrel Brand, Southern Style Nuts and Sunshine Country trademarks), but also our patents, trade secrets, know-how copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, service mark, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property both domestically and internationally. Our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our trade secrets and technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. Any disputes regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products if found to be liable for infringing activity. Any such activities could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Unsuccessful Implementation of Our Strategic Plan Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We developed a strategic plan (the \"Strategic Plan\"), to help us achieve long-term profitable growth. As part of this Strategic Plan, we have taken a number of actions including, among other things, promotion of our branded recipe and snack nut products, expanding distribution in traditional retail channels and alternative channels and other strategies related to increasing sales of non-branded business at existing key customers. We are taking these actions in order to increase sales in all of our distribution channels. There are no assurances that we will be successful in achieving any portion of our Strategic Plan, or any other efficiency measures.. In addition, we have in the past, as part of our Strategic Plan, engaged in strategic acquisitions and joint ventures including the acquisition of Squirrel Brand, L.P. in November 2017. However, we may be unable to successfully manage completed acquisitions or joint ventures, identify additional acquisitions or joint ventures, or negotiate favorable financial or other terms with third parties which are attractive or advantageous to grow or otherwise supplement our existing business. In addition, the identification and completion of any acquisition or joint venture may divert management's attention from ordinary business matters, require a number of one-time or ongoing advisory costs, result in the loss of employees or customers of our business or the acquired business, involve the assumption of unknown and potentially significant liabilities or result in impairment charges if the assumptions underlying the purchase are not satisfied. Due to various uncertainties inherent in such activities, we may be unable to achieve a substantial portion of any anticipated benefits or cost savings from previous acquisitions or joint ventures or other anticipated benefits in the timeframe we anticipate, or at all.. Any inability to realize the anticipated benefits from the Strategic Plan could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Increases in Labor Costs or Work Stoppages or Strikes Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. As the number of our employees has grown, personnel costs, including the costs of medical and other employee health and welfare benefits, have increased. These costs can vary substantially as a result of an increase in the number, mix and experience of our employees and changes in health care and other employment-related laws. There are no assurances that we will succeed in reducing future increases in such costs, particularly if government regulations require us to change our health and welfare benefits, government regulations impose additional monitoring and compliance expenses or we need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Increases in personnel costs can also be amplified by low unemployment rates, preferences among workers in the labor market and general tight labor market conditions in any of the areas where we operate. Our inability to control such costs could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 12. Although we consider our labor relations to be good, if a significant number of our employees engaged in a work slowdown, or other type of labor unrest, it could in some cases impair our ability to supply our products to customers, which could result in reduced sales, and may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. Any of these activities could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We Cannot Guarantee the Timing, Amount or Payment of Dividends. Although the Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy under which the Company intends to pay an annual cash dividend on its Common Stock and Class A Stock, whether any such subsequent dividend (or any special dividend) is declared and the timing and amount thereof is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. Decisions of the Board of Directors in respect of dividends will be based on a variety of factors, including the cash flows, earnings and financial position of the Company as well as the borrowing availability and other restrictions under our Credit Facility. The Board of Directors is not required to declare dividends and the number and amount of dividends is restricted under our Credit Facility and could be restricted under future financing or other arrangements. The Board of Directors will also regularly review and may modify or terminate our dividend policy. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurances that our Company will pay annual or special cash dividends in the future, and if so, the amount or timing thereof. Any reduction in or elimination of our dividend policy or dividend payments could have a negative effect on the price of our Common Stock.. 13"
