[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to numerous risks. The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Actual future results may differ materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.. Risks Related to Product Development and Regulatory Process. We are early in our development efforts. Our lead product candidate, JTX-2011, is in clinical development and our other product candidate, JTX-4014, and other future product candidates are in preclinical or earlier stages of development. If we are unable to advance JTX-2011 through clinical development, or advance JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates to clinical development, or obtain marketing approval and ultimately commercialize any product candidates or experience significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed.. We are early in our development efforts, with only our lead product candidate, JTX-2011, in clinical development and our other product candidate, JTX-4014, and other future product candidates in preclinical or earlier stages of development. We have invested substantially all of our efforts and financial resources in the identification of targets and early stage, preclinical and clinical development of monoclonal antibodies, including the development of our lead product candidate, JTX-2011, and JTX-4014. JTX-2011 is currently in clinical development in an adaptive Phase I/II clinical trial. The monotherapy and combination with nivolumab Phase II portions of this clinical trial were initiated in April 2017 and July of 2017, respectively.. Our other efforts have been invested in early stage, preclinical and earlier development programs. Our ability to generate product revenues, which we do not expect will occur for many years, if ever, will depend heavily on the successful development and eventual commercialization of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates, which may never occur. We currently generate no revenues from sales of any products, and we may never be able to develop or commercialize a marketable product. JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates will require additional preclinical and clinical development, management of clinical, preclinical and manufacturing activities, marketing approval in the United States and other markets, demonstrating effectiveness to pricing and reimbursement authorities, obtaining sufficient manufacturing supply for both clinical development and commercial production, building of a commercial organization, and substantial investment and significant marketing efforts before we generate any revenues from product sales. In addition, our product development programs contemplate the development of complementary diagnostics and/or companion diagnostics, which are assays or tests to identify an appropriate patient population. Complementary diagnostics and companion diagnostics are subject to regulation as medical devices and, if there are no adequate complementary diagnostics and/or companion diagnostics currently on the market for our product candidates, we may elect to advance a diagnostic and that diagnostic would have to be approved or cleared for marketing by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory agencies before we could commercialize it. The success of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates will depend on several factors, including the following:. • successful completion of preclinical studies of JTX-4014 and any future product candidates;. • successful completion of non-clinical toxicology studies that may be required for regulatory approval of JTX-2011;. • acceptance of INDs for our planned clinical trials or future clinical trials;. • successful enrollment and completion of clinical trials;. • demonstration of a benefit/risk profile for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates that is sufficient to support a successful BLA;. • successful development and marketing approval and clearance of complementary diagnostics and/or companion diagnostics for use with JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates, if applicable;. • receipt and maintenance of marketing approvals from applicable regulatory authorities;. • approval by national pricing and reimbursement agencies (such as NICE, National Institute for Health Care and Excellence in the United Kingdom);. 23. Table of Contents. • establishing agreements with third-party manufacturers for clinical supply for our clinical trials and commercial manufacturing, if our product candidate is approved;. • obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection or regulatory exclusivity for our product candidates;. • launching commercial sales of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates, if and when approved;. • acceptance of our product candidates, if and when approved, by patients, the medical community and third-party payors;. • effectively competing with other therapies;. • obtaining and maintaining healthcare coverage and adequate reimbursement;. • enforcing and defending intellectual property rights and claims;. • successful completion of clinical confirmatory trials to verify clinical benefit, if applicable; and. • maintaining a continued acceptable safety profile of the product candidates following approval.. If we do not achieve one or more of these factors in a timely manner or at all, we could experience significant delays or an inability to successfully commercialize JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates, which would materially harm our business. If we do not receive marketing approvals for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates, we may not be able to continue our operations.. We rely on our Translational Science Platform to identify and develop product candidates. Our competitive position could be materially harmed if our competitors develop a platform similar to our Translational Science Platform and develop rival product candidates.. We rely on unpatented know-how, inventions and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We consider know-how to be our primary intellectual property with respect to our Translational Science Platform. Know-how can be difficult to protect. In particular, we anticipate that with respect to this platform, this know-how may over time be disseminated within the industry through independent development, the publication of journal articles describing the methodology, and the movement of skilled personnel.. We cannot rule out that our competitors may have or obtain the knowledge necessary to analyze and characterize tumors for the purpose of identifying and developing products that could compete with the product candidates we develop. Our competitors may also have significantly greater financial, product development, technical, and human resources and access to other human tumors than we do and may have significantly greater experience in using translational science methodology to identify and develop product candidates.. We may not be able to prohibit our competitors from using translational science methods to develop product candidates, including such methods that are the same as or similar to our own. If our competitors use translational science methods to identify and develop products that compete with JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any future product candidates we develop, our ability to develop and market a promising product or product candidate may diminish substantially, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, and results of operations.. Clinical product development involves a lengthy and expensive process, with an uncertain outcome. We will incur additional costs in connection with, and may experience delays, in completing, or ultimately be unable to complete, the development and commercialization of JTX-2011, JTX-4014, any other future product candidates, and any complementary diagnostics and/or companion diagnostics.. JTX-2011, our lead product candidate, is in clinical development and JTX-4014, our other product candidate, and other future product candidates are in preclinical or earlier stages of development. The risk of failure at any stage of clinical or preclinical development is high. It is impossible to predict when or if JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates will prove effective and safe in humans and will receive marketing approval. Before obtaining marketing approval from regulatory authorities for the sale of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates, we must complete preclinical studies and then conduct extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete or may be delayed and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. The outcome of preclinical development testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials,. 24. Table of Contents. and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. Moreover, preclinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval of their product candidates. Our preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be successful.. The FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could change their position on the acceptability of our trial designs or the clinical endpoints selected, which may require us to complete more preclinical studies or provide additional data before continuing clinical trials. In the event we are required to satisfy additional FDA requests, the completion of our clinical trials for JTX-2011 may be delayed. Successful completion of our clinical trials is a prerequisite to submitting a BLA to the FDA and a Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, in Europe for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates and, consequently, the ultimate approval and commercial marketing of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and our other future product candidates. We do not know whether any of our clinical trials will be completed on schedule, if at all.. We may experience delays in completing our preclinical studies and initiating or completing clinical trials, and we may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, any potential future clinical trials that could delay or prevent our ability to receive marketing approval of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, including:. • regulators, IRBs, or ethics committees may not authorize us or our investigators to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site;. • we may experience delays in reaching, or fail to reach, agreement on acceptable terms with prospective trial sites and prospective contract research organizations, or CROs;. • clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials or abandon product development programs;. • the number of patients required for clinical trials may be larger than we anticipate;. • it may be difficult to enroll a sufficient number of patients with a predictive biomarker or enrollment in these clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate or participants may drop out of these clinical trials or fail to return for post-treatment follow-up at a higher rate than we anticipate;. • our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner, or at all, or may deviate from the clinical trial protocol or drop out of the trial, which may require that we add new clinical trial sites or investigators;. • we may elect to, or regulators or IRBs or ethics committees may require that we or our investigators, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or a finding that the participants are being exposed to unreasonable and significant health risks;. • the cost of clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate;. • the supply or quality of materials or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials may be insufficient or inadequate;. • the size of the patient population required to validate our JTX-2011 predictive biomarker strategy may be larger than we anticipate;. • competitors may obtain regulatory approval ahead of us for compounds similar to ours, preventing us from obtaining regulatory approval despite positive clinical data;. • our product candidates may have undesirable side effects or other unexpected characteristics, causing us to suspend or terminate the trials, or reports may arise from preclinical or clinical testing of other similar cancer therapies that raise safety or efficacy concerns about our product candidates; and. • the FDA or other regulatory authorities may require us to submit additional data or impose other requirements before permitting us to initiate or continue a clinical trial.. We could encounter delays if a clinical trial is suspended or terminated by us, by the IRBs of the institutions in which such trials are being conducted or ethics committees, or by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, or recommended for suspension or termination by the Data Safety Monitoring Board, or DSMB, for such trial. Such authorities or we may impose such a suspension or termination due to a number of factors, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols, inspection of the. 25. Table of Contents. clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects, including those issues or effects seen in other drugs or drug candidates in the class to which our drug candidates belong, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a product, changes in governmental regulations or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Many of the factors that result in a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of marketing approval of our product candidates. Further, regulatory authorities may disagree with our clinical trial design and our interpretation of data from clinical trials, or may change the requirements for approval even after such authorities have reviewed and commented on the design for our clinical trials.. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing, if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, or if we are unable to successfully complete clinical trials or other testing of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, we may:. • be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates;. • not obtain marketing approval at all;. • obtain approval for indications or patient populations that are not as broad as intended or desired;. • be subject to post-marketing testing requirements; or. • have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval.. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or marketing approvals. We do not know whether any of our clinical trials will need to be restructured, will be completed on schedule, or will begin as planned, if at all. Any delays in our preclinical or future clinical development programs may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly.. If we encounter difficulties enrolling patients in our clinical trials, our clinical development activities could be delayed or otherwise be adversely affected.. The timely completion of clinical trials in accordance with their protocols depends, among other things, on our ability to enroll a sufficient number of patients who remain in the study until its conclusion. We may experience difficulties in patient enrollment in our clinical trials for a variety of reasons. The enrollment of patients depends on many factors, including:. • the patient eligibility criteria defined in the protocol;. • our ability to identify and enroll sufficient number of patients with a predictive biomarker;. • the size of the patient population required for analysis of the trial's primary endpoints;. • the proximity of patients to study sites;. • the design of the trial;. • our ability to recruit clinical trial investigators with the appropriate competencies and experience;. • clinicians' and patients' perceptions of the potential advantages of the product candidate being studied in relation to other available therapies;. • our ability to obtain and maintain patient consents for participation in our clinical trials and, where appropriate, biopsies for future patient enrichment efforts; and. • the risk that patients enrolled in clinical trials will drop out of the trials before completion or, because they are late-stage cancer patients, will not survive the full terms of the clinical trials.. In addition, our clinical trials will compete with other clinical trials for product candidates that are in the same therapeutic areas as JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates. This competition will reduce the number and types of patients available to us, because some patients who might have opted to enroll in our trials may instead opt to enroll in a trial conducted by one of our competitors. Since the number of qualified clinical investigators is limited, we expect to conduct some of our clinical trials at the same clinical trial sites that some of our competitors use, which will reduce the number of patients who are available for our clinical trials at such sites. Moreover, because JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates represent a departure from more commonly used methods for cancer treatment, potential patients and their doctors may be inclined to use conventional therapies, such as chemotherapy, rather than enroll patients in our ongoing or any future clinical trial.. 26. Table of Contents. Delays in patient enrollment may result in increased costs or may affect the timing or outcome of the planned clinical trials, which could prevent completion of these trials and adversely affect our ability to advance the development of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates.. JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates we develop may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties when used alone or in combination with other approved pharmaceutical products or investigational new drugs that could halt their clinical development, prevent their marketing approval, limit their commercial potential or result in significant negative consequences.. Although JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates will undergo safety testing to the extent possible and, where applicable, under such conditions discussed with regulatory authorities, not all adverse effects of drugs can be predicted or anticipated. Immunotherapy, and its method of action of harnessing the body's immune system, is powerful and could lead to serious side effects that we only discover in clinical trials. Undesirable or clinically unmanageable side effects could occur and cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restrictive label or the delay or denial of marketing approval by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Results of our trials could reveal a high and unacceptable severity and prevalence of side effects or unexpected characteristics. Unforeseen side effects from JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates could arise either during clinical development or, if such side effects are more rare, after JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates have been approved by regulatory authorities and the approved product has been marketed, resulting in the exposure of additional patients. Although we have preliminary safety data for JTX-2011 in humans, we cannot predict if future clinical trials of JTX-2011 or JTX-4014 will demonstrate safety in humans. If JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates we develop fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy in clinical trials or do not gain marketing approval, we will not be able to generate revenue and our business will be harmed.. Our product candidates could cause undesirable side effects similar to those toxicities observed in other immunotherapies. While we have already evaluated JTX-2011 in these in vitro tests, our Phase II clinical trial of JTX-2011 has been ongoing for less than a year, and we have only preliminary safety data on the risk profile in humans. It remains possible that new or more severe toxicities could be seen if JTX-2011 or JTX-4014 is used in combination with other agents. Such toxicities, if observed, could result in development delays, delay or denial of approval, or limit the labeling and thus overall market scope for JTX-2011 or JTX-4014.. If unacceptable toxicities arise in the development of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, we or a future collaborator could suspend or terminate our trials, or the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order us to cease clinical trials or deny approval of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Treatment-related side effects could also affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled subjects to complete the trial, or result in potential product liability claims. In addition, these side effects may not be appropriately recognized or managed by the treating medical staff, particularly outside of our existing or future collaborators as toxicities resulting from cancer immunotherapies are not normally encountered in the general patient population and by medical personnel. We expect to have to train medical personnel using JTX-2011 or JTX-4014 to understand the side effect profile of JTX-2011 or JTX-4014 for both our ongoing and planned clinical trials and upon commercialization of JTX-2011 or JTX-4014. The inability to recognize and manage the potential side effects of JTX-2011 or JTX-4014 could result in patient deaths. Any of these occurrences may prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product candidate and may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly.. We may seek a Breakthrough Therapy Designation or Fast Track Designation by the FDA for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, and we may be unsuccessful. If we are successful, the designation may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process, and it does not increase the likelihood that JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates will receive marketing approval.. We may seek a Breakthrough Therapy Designation or Fast Track Designation for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates. A breakthrough therapy is defined as a drug that is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over currently approved therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. Fast Track Designation may be available if a product is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and preclinical or clinical data demonstrate the potential to address an unmet medical need for this condition. Drugs that receive Breakthrough Therapy Designation or Fast Track Designation by the FDA are eligible for accelerated approval and priority review.. 27. Table of Contents. The FDA has broad discretion whether or not to grant Breakthrough Therapy Designation or Fast Track Designation. Even if we receive Breakthrough Therapy Designation or Fast Track Designation for a product candidate, such designation may not result in a faster development process, review or approval compared to conventional FDA procedures and does not assure ultimate approval by the FDA. In addition, even if JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates receive Breakthrough Therapy Designation or Fast Track Designation, the FDA may later decide that the drugs no longer meet the conditions for qualification and rescind the designation.. We may seek Orphan Drug Designation for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, and we may be unsuccessful or may be unable to maintain the benefits associated with Orphan Drug Designation, including the potential for market exclusivity.. As part of our business strategy, we may seek Orphan Drug Designation for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, and we may be unsuccessful. In the United States, Orphan Drug Designation entitles a party to financial incentives such as opportunities for grant funding towards clinical trial costs, tax advantages and user-fee waivers.. In Europe, Orphan Drug Designation entitles a party to a number of incentives, such as protocol assistance and scientific advice specifically for designated orphan medicines, and potential fee reductions depending on the status of the sponsor.. Generally, if a drug with an Orphan Drug Designation subsequently receives the first marketing approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the drug is entitled to a period of marketing exclusivity, which precludes the European Medicines Agency or the FDA from approving another marketing application for the same drug and indication for a set time period, except in limited circumstances.. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a drug, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the drug from competition because different drugs can be approved for the same condition, or the drug may be used off-label. Even after an orphan drug is approved, the FDA can subsequently approve another drug for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the other drug is clinically superior. In addition, a designated orphan drug may not receive orphan drug exclusivity if it is approved for a use that is broader than the indication for which it received orphan designation. Moreover, orphan drug exclusive marketing rights in the United States may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. Orphan Drug Designation neither shortens the development time or regulatory review time of a drug nor gives the drug any advantage in the regulatory review or approval process. While we may seek Orphan Drug Designation for applicable indications for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, we may never receive such designations. Even if we do receive such designations, there is no guarantee that we will enjoy the benefits of those designations.. The marketing approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or any of our existing or future collaboration partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates.. Among other things, the research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval and license maintenance, selling, import and export, marketing and distribution of biologic products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Neither we nor any existing or future collaboration partner is permitted to market JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future products in the United States until we receive approval of a BLA from the FDA. We have never submitted an application for, or received, marketing approval. Obtaining approval of a BLA can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable domestic and foreign regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including the following:. • untitled and warning letters;. • civil or criminal penalties and fines;. • injunctions;. • suspension or withdrawal of marketing approval;. • suspension of any ongoing clinical trials;. • product recalls;. 28. Table of Contents. • refusal to accept or approve BLAs or supplements thereto filed by us;. • restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or. • seizure or detention of our products or import bans.. Prior to receiving approval to commercialize our product candidates in the United States or abroad, we and any of our existing or future collaboration partners must demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials, and to the satisfaction of the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, that such product candidates are safe and effective for their intended uses. Even if we and any of our existing or future collaboration partners believe the preclinical or clinical data for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Administering our product candidates to humans may produce undesirable side effects, which could interrupt, delay or cause suspension of clinical trials of our product candidates and result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates for any or all targeted indications.. Marketing approval of a BLA is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive and may take several years. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials, or perform additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for FDA approval varies depending on the product candidate, the disease or condition that the product candidate is designed to address and the regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including, but not limited to, the following:. • a product candidate may not be deemed safe or effective;. • FDA officials may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient;. • the FDA might not deem our or our third-party manufacturers' processes or facilities adequate for approval of our marketing applications; or. • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations.. If JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy in clinical trials or do not gain marketing approval, our business will be harmed.. We may choose not to develop a potential product candidate, or we may suspend or terminate one or more discovery or preclinical programs related to our product candidates.. At any time and for any reason, we may determine that one or more of our discovery programs, preclinical programs or product candidates does not have sufficient potential to warrant the allocation of resources toward such program or product candidate. Furthermore, because we have limited financial and personnel resources, we are placing significant focus on the development of our product candidates JTX-2011 and JTX-4014. Accordingly, we may choose not to develop a product candidate or elect to suspend or terminate one or more of our discovery or preclinical programs. If we suspend or terminate a program or product candidate in which we have invested significant resources, we will have expended resources on a program or product candidate that will not provide a full return on our investment and we may have missed an opportunity to have allocated those resources to potentially more productive uses, including existing or future programs or product candidates. If we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular future product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to future product candidates through collaboration, licensing or other royalty arrangements.. Even if we complete the necessary clinical trials, we cannot predict when or if we will obtain marketing approval to commercialize a product or the approval may be for a more narrow indication than we expect.. We cannot commercialize a product candidate until the appropriate regulatory authorities have reviewed and approved the product candidate. Even if our product candidates demonstrate safety and efficacy in clinical trials, the regulatory agencies may not complete their review processes in a timely manner, or we may not be able to obtain marketing approval. In addition, we may experience delays or rejections based upon government regulation or changes in regulatory agency policy during the period of product development. Regulatory agencies also may impose significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions or contraindications with respect to conditions of use or may grant approval subject to the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials. 29. Table of Contents. or may not approve the price we intend to charge for our product candidates. Any of the foregoing scenarios could materially harm the commercial prospects for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any future products.. Obtaining and maintaining marketing approval of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates in one jurisdiction does not mean that we will be successful in obtaining marketing approval of that product candidate in other jurisdictions.. Obtaining and maintaining marketing approval of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates in one jurisdiction does not guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain marketing approval in any other jurisdiction. For example, even if the FDA grants marketing approval of a product candidate, comparable regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions must also approve the manufacturing, marketing and promotion of the product candidate in those countries. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve requirements and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the United States, including additional preclinical studies or clinical trials.. Obtaining foreign marketing approvals and compliance with foreign regulatory requirements could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in certain countries. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements in international markets and/or receive applicable marketing approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates will be harmed. Even if we obtain approval for our product candidates and ultimately commercialize them in foreign markets, we would be subject to separate risks and uncertainties, including the burden of complying with complex and changing foreign regulatory, tax, accounting and legal requirements and the reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries.. Our failure to successfully identify, acquire, develop, in-license and commercialize additional products or product candidates could impair our ability to grow.. Although a substantial amount of our efforts will focus on the clinical testing and potential approval of our most advanced product candidate, JTX-2011, a key element of our long-term growth strategy is to acquire, develop and/or market additional products and product candidates. We may never be able to identify, discover, develop, in-license, acquire or commercialize additional product candidates, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Because our internal research capabilities are limited, we may be dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic scientists, and other researchers to sell or license products or technology to us. The success of this strategy depends partly upon our ability to identify, select, and acquire promising pharmaceutical product candidates and products. The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquisition of a product candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the license or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. Acquisitions and in-licenses include numerous risks, including potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition or license and potential unknown liabilities associated with the product or technology. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses, and technologies, integrate them into our current infrastructure and manage our development efforts.. Even if we receive marketing approval of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review.. Any marketing approvals that we receive for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates may be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product candidate. In addition, if the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority approves JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, import and export and record keeping for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, as well as continued compliance with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, and good clinical practice, or GCP, for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things:. • restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of our product candidates, withdrawal of the product from the market, or product recalls;. 30. Table of Contents. • fines, untitled and warning letters, or holds on clinical trials;. • refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications we filed or suspension or revocation of license approvals;. • product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of our product candidates; and. • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability.. Even if JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates receive marketing approval, they may fail to achieve the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community necessary for commercial success.. If JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates receive marketing approval, whether as a single agent or in combination with other therapies, they may nonetheless fail to gain sufficient market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors, and others in the medical community. If JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable.. Risks Related to Manufacturing, Commercialization and Reliance on Third Parties. We depend on our collaboration with Celgene and may depend on collaborations with additional third parties for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. If our collaborations are not successful, we may not be able to capitalize on the market potential of these product candidates.. In July 2016, we entered into the Celgene Collaboration Agreement with Celgene focused on developing and commercializing biologic immunotherapies. Under our Celgene Collaboration Agreement with Celgene, Celgene may exercise options granting it certain commercialization or licensing rights for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and other product candidate programs from a pool of certain molecular targets. The collaboration involves a complex allocation of rights, provides for milestone payments to us based on the achievement of specified clinical development, regulatory and commercial milestones, provides for additional payments upon Celgene's election to exercise rights to commercialize additional product candidates or extend the research term, and provides us with profit-sharing and royalty-based revenue if certain product candidates are successfully commercialized. We cannot provide any assurance with respect to, or otherwise, the success of the collaboration.. We may form or seek other strategic alliances, joint ventures, or collaborations, or enter into additional licensing arrangements with third parties that we believe will complement or augment our development and commercialization efforts with respect to JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any future product candidates that we may develop.. Collaborations involving our product candidates, including our collaboration with Celgene, pose the following risks to us:. • Collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. For example, under our collaboration agreement with Celgene, development and commercialization plans and strategies for licensed programs will be conducted in accordance with a plan approved by the appropriate committee comprised of representatives from both us and Celgene.. • Collaborators, including Celgene, may not pursue development and commercialization of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any future product candidates or may elect not to continue or renew development or commercialization programs based on clinical trial results, changes in their strategic focus due to the acquisition of competitive products, availability of funding or other external factors such as a business combination that diverts resources or creates competing priorities.. • Collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial, abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing. For example, under our collaboration agreement with Celgene, at any point in the research, development and clinical trial process, or during the term of any applicable co-. 31. Table of Contents. development and co-commercialization or license agreement, respectively, Celgene may terminate the applicable agreement upon 120 days' prior written notice with respect to any product candidate that is subject to the collaboration agreement without triggering a termination of the remainder of the collaboration and, under a co-development and co-commercialization agreement or a license agreement, it is possible for Celgene to terminate that agreement upon 120 days prior written notice at any point during the development or commercialization activities. If Celgene exercises any such termination right, we may not have sufficient resources to continue the research, development or commercialization of such product candidate.. • Collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that compete directly or indirectly with our products or product candidates.. • A collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more products may not commit sufficient resources to their marketing and distribution.. • Collaborators may own or co-own intellectual property covering our products that results from our collaborating with them, and in such cases, we would not have the exclusive right to develop, commercialize, enforce, maintain or defend such intellectual property.. • Collaborators may not properly enforce, maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in a way that gives rise to actual or threatened litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation, or other intellectual property proceedings. For example, under certain limited circumstances, Celgene has the first right to enforce, maintain or defend our intellectual property rights under our collaboration arrangement with respect to certain licensed programs and, although we may have the right to assume the enforcement, maintenance and defense of our intellectual property rights if Celgene does not, our ability to do so may be compromised by Celgene's actions.. • Disputes may arise between a collaborator and us that cause the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management attention and resources. For example, although we and Celgene have agreed to the form of co-development and co-commercialization agreement and license agreement to be entered into should Celgene exercise its option for a program under the Celgene Collaboration Agreement, we may never come to agreement with Celgene on a final definitive agreement. Further, even if we do reach a definitive agreement, it may not be on terms that are as favorable to us as expected.. • Collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, may result in a need for additional capital to pursue further development or commercialization of the applicable product candidates. For example, Celgene can terminate its agreement with us, in its entirety or with respect to any program, upon 120 days' notice and can terminate the entire agreement with us in connection with a material breach of the agreement by us that remains uncured for 90 days. If Celgene exercises such termination right, we may not have sufficient resources to continue the development of such product candidate.. • Collaboration agreements may not lead to development or commercialization of product candidates in the most efficient manner or at all.. • Collaboration agreements may restrict our right to independently pursue new product candidates. For example, if Celgene exercises its option for a program within the collaboration other than JTX-4014, then until termination or expiration of the applicable co-development and co-commercialization agreement for such program, we may not directly or indirectly research, develop, manufacture or commercialize, outside of the collaboration, any biologic medicine or product candidate with specified activity against that program's collaboration target.. As a result, if we enter into additional collaboration agreements and strategic partnerships or license our intellectual property, products or businesses, we may not be able to realize the benefit of, or generate revenues from, such arrangements.. We may seek to establish additional collaborations, and, if we are not able to establish them on commercially reasonable terms, we may have to alter our development and commercialization plans.. Our drug development programs and the potential commercialization of our product candidates will require substantial additional resources. For some of our product candidates, we may decide to collaborate with additional pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for the development and potential commercialization of those product. 32. Table of Contents. candidates. Any of these relationships may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near and long-term expenditures, issue securities that dilute our existing stockholders, or disrupt our management and business.. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners and the negotiation process is time consuming and complex. Whether we reach a definitive agreement for other collaborations will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of our business. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish a strategic partnership or other alternative arrangements for future product candidates because they may be deemed to be at too early of a stage of development for collaborative effort and third parties may not view them as having the requisite potential to demonstrate safety and efficacy. In addition, there have been a significant number of recent business combinations among large pharmaceutical companies that have resulted in a reduced number of potential future collaborators.. We may also be restricted under existing collaboration agreements from entering into future agreements on certain terms with potential collaborators. For example, during the research term of our collaboration with Celgene, we may not directly or indirectly research, develop, manufacture or commercialize, except pursuant to the agreement, certain product candidates. In addition, if Celgene exercises its option for a program within the collaboration other than JTX-4014, then until termination or expiration of the applicable co-development and co-commercialization agreement for such program, we may not directly or indirectly develop, manufacture or commercialize, outside of the collaboration, any biologic medicine or product candidate with specified activity against that program's collaboration target.. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to do so, we may have to curtail the development of the product candidate for which we are seeking to collaborate, reduce or delay its development program, delay or reduce the scope of potential commercialization activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.. The market opportunities for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other products, if and when approved, may be limited to those patients who are ineligible for established therapies or for whom prior therapies have failed, and may be small.. Cancer therapies are sometimes characterized as first-line, second-line, or third-line, and the FDA often approves new therapies initially only for third-line use. When cancer is detected early enough, first-line therapy, usually chemotherapy, hormone therapy, surgery, radiation therapy, and, increasingly, immunotherapies or a combination of these, is sometimes adequate to cure the cancer or prolong life without a cure. Second and third-line therapies are administered to patients when prior therapy is not effective. We expect to initially seek approval of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates as a therapy for patients who have received one or more prior treatments. Subsequently, for those products that prove to be sufficiently beneficial, if any, we would expect to seek approval potentially as a first-line therapy, but there is no guarantee that JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, even if approved, would be approved for first-line therapy, and, prior to any such approvals, we may have to conduct additional clinical trials.. Our projections of both the number of people who have the cancers we are targeting, as well as the subset of people with these cancers who have received one or more prior treatments, and who have the potential to benefit from treatment with JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, are based on our beliefs and estimates. These estimates have been derived from a variety of sources, including scientific literature, surveys of clinics, patient foundations, and market research, and may prove to be incorrect. Further, new studies may change the estimated incidence or prevalence of these cancers. The number of patients may turn out to be lower than expected. Additionally, the potentially addressable patient population for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates may be limited or may not be amenable to treatment with JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other products, if and when approved. Even if we obtain significant market share for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other products, if and when approved, because the potential target populations are small, we may never achieve profitability without obtaining marketing approval for additional indications, including to be used as first- or second-line therapy.. 33. Table of Contents. Exclusivity and other governance provisions within our collaboration agreement with Celgene may prevent us from pursuing alternative product candidates and exercising complete control over our product candidates' development.. During the research term in our collaboration agreement with Celgene, we may not alone, or with a third party, research, develop, manufacture or commercialize a biologic that binds to a pool of certain B cell, T regulatory cell or tumor-associated macrophage targets, other than PD-1, that meet certain criteria, termed an exclusive target, and inhibit, activate or otherwise modulate the activity of such exclusive target. In addition, if Celgene exercises its option for a program within the collaboration other than JTX-4014, then until termination or expiration of the applicable co-development and co-commercialization agreement for such program, we may not directly or indirectly research, develop, manufacture or commercialize, outside of the collaboration, any biologic with specified activity against that program's collaboration target. Further, our collaboration with Celgene is governed by the joint steering committee, or JSC, and a joint patent committee. The JSC may establish additional subcommittees, to oversee particular projects or activities. Subject to limitations specified in the agreement, if the applicable governance committee is unable to make a decision by consensus and the parties are unable to resolve the issue through escalation to specified senior executive officers of the parties, then we generally have final decision-making authority over research and development matters for programs prior to Celgene's exercise of its option to such program. If Celgene exercises its option for a program, final decision-making authority for that program is specified in the applicable co-development and co-commercialization agreement or license agreement. These exclusivity and governance provisions may inhibit our development efforts and may materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We rely and expect to continue to rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, comply with regulatory requirements or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain marketing approval for or commercialize our product candidates and our business could be substantially harmed.. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials. We rely and will rely on medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories, and other third parties, such as CROs, to conduct or otherwise support our ongoing clinical trials, including processing of human blood and tumor samples and analysis of biomarkers from the clinical trials. We rely and will rely heavily on these parties for execution of clinical trials for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates and we control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal and regulatory requirements and scientific standards, and our reliance on these third parties including CROs will not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. For any violations of laws and regulations during the conduct of our clinical trials, we could be subject to untitled and warning letters or enforcement action that may include civil penalties up to and including criminal prosecution.. We and our clinical investigators and CROs are required to comply with regulations and requirements, including GCP, for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate, and that the trial patients are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials and their rights are protected. If we or our clinical investigators or CROs fail to comply with applicable GCP, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure stockholders that, upon inspection, the FDA will determine that any of our future clinical trials will comply with GCP. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product candidates produced under cGMP regulations. Our failure or the failure of our clinical investigators or CROs to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the marketing approval process and could also subject us to enforcement action. We also are required to register certain ongoing clinical trials and provide certain information, including information relating to the trial's protocol, on a government-sponsored database, ClinicalTrials.gov, within specific time frames. Failure to do so can result in fines, adverse publicity and civil and criminal sanctions.. Although we designed the clinical trials for JTX-2011 and intend to design the clinical trials for JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, clinical investigators or CROs will conduct all of the clinical trials. As a result, many important aspects of our development programs, including their conduct and timing, will be outside of our direct control. Our reliance on third parties to conduct future clinical trials will also result in less direct control over the management of data developed through clinical trials than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with outside parties can also be challenging, potentially leading to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties may also face internal challenges that may materially adversely. 34. Table of Contents. affect the willingness or ability of such parties to conduct our clinical trials and may subject us to unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. If the clinical investigators or CROs do not perform clinical trials in a satisfactory manner, breach their obligations to us or fail to comply with regulatory requirements, the development, marketing approval and commercialization of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates may be delayed, or our development program may be materially and irreversibly harmed. If we are unable to rely on clinical data collected by our clinical investigators and CROs, we could be required to repeat, extend the duration of, or increase the size of any clinical trials we conduct and this could significantly delay commercialization and require significantly greater expenditures.. If clinical investigators or CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain are compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, any clinical trials such clinical investigators or CROs are associated with may be extended, delayed or terminated. As a result, we believe that our financial results and the commercial prospects for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates in the subject indication would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenue could be delayed.. We face significant competition and if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates, our commercial opportunities will be negatively impacted.. The life sciences industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. We are currently developing therapeutics that will compete with other products and therapies that currently exist or are being developed, such as GlaxoSmithKline plc's anti-ICOS antibody program. Products we may develop in the future are also likely to face competition from other products and therapies, some of which we may not currently be aware. Technological advances or products developed by our competitors may render our technologies or product candidates obsolete, less competitive or not economical.. We have both domestic and international competitors, including major multinational pharmaceutical companies, established biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions and small and other early-stage companies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, product development, technical and human resources than we do. Large pharmaceutical companies, in particular, have extensive experience in clinical testing, obtaining marketing approvals, establishing clinical trial sites, recruiting patients and in manufacturing pharmaceutical products and may succeed in discovering, developing and commercializing products in our field before we do. We also face competition in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs.. There are a large number of companies developing or marketing treatments for cancer, including many major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These treatments consist both of small molecule drug products, as well as biologics approaches to address cancer. These treatments are often combined with one another in an attempt to maximize the response rate.. Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient, have a broader label, are marketed more effectively, are reimbursed or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. Our competitors also may obtain FDA, European Commission or other marketing approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market. Even if JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates achieve marketing approval, they may be priced at a significant premium over competitive products if any have been approved by then, resulting in reduced competitiveness. In addition, if JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and other future product candidates are approved by the FDA, the approval of a biosimilar product to one of our products could have a material impact on our business.. Because we rely on third-party manufacturing and supply partners, including a single supplier for some of our materials, our supply of research and development, preclinical and clinical development materials may become limited or interrupted or may not be of satisfactory quantity or quality.. We rely on third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture our preclinical and clinical trial product supplies. We do not own manufacturing facilities for producing such supplies. There can be no assurance that our preclinical and clinical development product supplies will not be limited, interrupted, or of satisfactory quality or continue to be. 35. Table of Contents. available at acceptable prices. Our or a third party's failure to execute on our manufacturing requirements, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms and comply with cGMP could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including:. • an inability to continue clinical trials of JTX-2011 or initiate or continue clinical trials of JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates under development;. • delay in submitting regulatory applications, or receiving marketing approvals, for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates;. • loss of cooperation of an existing or future collaborator;. • subjecting third-party manufacturing facilities or our manufacturing facilities to additional inspections by regulatory authorities; and. • requirements to cease distribution or to recall batches of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates.. In the event that any of our manufacturers fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements and facility and process validation tests or to perform its obligations to us in relation to quality, timing or otherwise, or if our supply of components or other materials becomes limited or interrupted for other reasons, we may be forced to manufacture the materials ourselves, for which we currently do not have the capabilities or resources, or enter into an agreement with another third party, which we may not be able to do on reasonable terms, if at all. In some cases, the technical skills or technology required to manufacture our future product candidates may be unique or proprietary to the original manufacturer, which would increase our reliance on such manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from such manufacturer in order to have another third party manufacture such future product candidates. In particular, any replacement of our manufacturer could require significant effort and expertise because there may be a limited number of qualified replacements. If we are required to change manufacturers for any reason, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines, which could negatively affect our ability to develop product candidates in a timely manner or within budget.. Certain raw materials necessary for the manufacture of our product candidates under our current manufacturing process, such as growth media, resins and filters, are available from a single supplier. We do not have agreements in place that guarantee our supply or the price of these raw materials. Any significant delay in the acquisition or decrease in the availability of these raw materials could considerably delay the manufacture of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, which could adversely impact the timing of any planned trials or the marketing approval of that product candidate.. We expect to continue to rely on third-party manufacturers if we receive marketing approval for any product candidate. If we are unable to maintain third-party manufacturing for JTX-2011 and JTX-4014 or obtain or maintain third-party manufacturing for any other future product candidates, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to develop and commercialize JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates successfully. We do not yet have sufficient information to reliably estimate the cost of the commercial manufacture of JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates.. In addition, in order to conduct clinical trials of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, we will need to work with third-party manufacturers to manufacture them in large quantities. Our manufacturing partners or our third-party collaborators may be unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates in a timely or cost-effective manner, or at all. In addition, quality issues may arise during scale-up activities. If our manufacturing partners or collaborators are unable to successfully scale up the manufacture of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates in sufficient quality and quantity, the development, testing, and clinical trials of that product candidate may be delayed or infeasible, and marketing approval or commercial launch of any resulting product may be delayed or not obtained, which could significantly harm our business.. We are subject to manufacturing risks that could substantially increase our costs and limit the supply of our products.. The process of manufacturing JTX-2011 or any other future product candidates is complex, highly regulated and subject to several risks, including those listed below.. 36. Table of Contents. • We do not have the capability internally to manufacture drug products or drug substances for clinical use. We use third-party manufacturers for manufacturing JTX-2011 for our Phase I/II study of JTX-2011. Any changes in our manufacturing processes as a result of scaling-up may require additional approvals or may delay the development and marketing approval of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates and ultimately affect our success.. • The manufacturing facilities in which JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates are made could be adversely affected by equipment failures, contamination, vendor error, labor shortages, natural disasters, power failures and numerous other factors.. • Any adverse developments affecting manufacturing operations for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates, if any are approved, may result in shipment delays, inventory shortages, lot failures, product withdrawals or recalls, or other interruptions in the supply of our products. We may also have to take inventory write-offs and incur other charges and expenses for products that fail to meet specifications, undertake costly remediation efforts or seek more costly manufacturing alternatives.. • Biologics, such as JTX-2011, that have been produced and are stored for later use may degrade, become contaminated, suffer other quality defects or may not be used within their shelf life, which may cause the affected product candidates to no longer be suitable for their intended use in clinical trials or other development activities. If the defective product candidates cannot be replaced in a timely fashion, we may incur significant delays in our development programs that could adversely affect the value of such product candidates.. We expect to develop JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and future product candidates in combination with other drugs. If we are unable to enter into a strategic collaboration for, or if we are unable to purchase on commercially reasonable terms, an approved cancer drug to use in combination with our product candidates, we may be unable to develop or obtain approval for, JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and future product candidates in combination with other drugs.. We intend to develop JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and future product candidates in combination with one or more other cancer drugs. If the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside of the United States revoke or do not grant approval of any drugs we use in combination with JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates, we will not be able to market any products in combination with such drugs.. If safety or efficacy issues arise with any of these drugs, we could experience significant regulatory delays, and the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside of the United States may require us to redesign or terminate the applicable clinical trials. If the drugs we use are replaced as the standard of care for the indications we choose for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates, the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside of the United States may require us to conduct additional clinical trials. In addition, if manufacturing or other issues result in a shortage of supply of the drugs with which we determine to combine with JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates, we may not be able to complete clinical development of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates on our current timeline or at all.. Even if JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates were to receive marketing approval or be commercialized for use in combination with other existing drugs, we would continue to be subject to the risks that the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside of the United States could revoke approval of such existing drugs or that safety, efficacy, manufacturing or supply issues could arise with such drugs.. We may form or seek strategic collaborations to evaluate and, if approved, market JTX-2011 and JTX-4014 in combination with another approved cancer drug. If we are unable to enter into a strategic collaboration on commercially reasonable terms or fail to realize the benefits of any such collaboration, we may be required to purchase an approved cancer drug to use in combination with JTX-2011 and JTX-4014. The failure to enter into a successful collaboration or the expense of purchasing an approved cancer drug may delay our development timelines, increase our costs and jeopardize our ability to develop JTX-2011 and JTX-4014.. We may develop complementary diagnostics and/or companion diagnostics for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any potential future product candidates. If we are unable to successfully develop such companion diagnostics or complementary diagnostics, or experience significant delays in doing so, we may not realize the full commercial potential of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates.. Because we are focused on patient enrichment strategies, in which predictive biomarkers may be used to identify the right patients for our product candidates, we believe that our success may depend, in part, on our ability to. 37. Table of Contents. develop complementary diagnostics and/or companion diagnostics, which are assays or tests to identify an appropriate patient population for our product candidates. There has been limited success to date industry-wide in developing these types of complementary diagnostics and/or companion diagnostics. To be successful, we need to address a number of scientific, technical and logistical challenges. We have not yet initiated development of complementary diagnostics and/or companion diagnostics. We have little experience in the development of diagnostics and may not be successful in developing appropriate diagnostics to pair with any of our product candidates that receive marketing approval. Complementary diagnostics and/or companion diagnostics are subject to regulation by the FDA and similar regulatory authorities outside the United States as medical devices and require separate regulatory approval or clearance prior to commercialization. Given our limited experience in developing diagnostics, we expect to rely in part or in whole on third parties for their design and manufacture. If we, or any third parties that we engage to assist us, are unable to successfully develop complementary diagnostics and/or companion diagnostics for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, or experience delays in doing so:. • the development of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates may be adversely affected if we are unable to appropriately select patients for enrollment in our clinical trials;. • JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates may not receive marketing approval if safe and effective use of a product candidate depends on a complementary diagnostics and/or companion diagnostics and such diagnostic is not commercially available or otherwise approved or cleared by the appropriate regulatory authority; and. • we may not realize the full commercial potential of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates that receive marketing approval if, among other reasons, we are unable to appropriately identify, or it takes us longer to identify, patients who are likely to benefit from therapy with our products, if approved.. If any of these events were to occur, our business would be harmed, possibly materially.. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities.. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates. For example, we may be sued if our product candidates cause or are perceived to cause injury or are found to be otherwise unsuitable during clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability or a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities. Even successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. • decreased demand for our product candidates;. • injury to our reputation;. • withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. • initiation of investigations by regulators;. • costs to defend the related litigation;. • a diversion of management's time and our resources;. • substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients;. • product recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions;. • loss of revenue;. • exhaustion of any available insurance and our capital resources;. • the inability to commercialize any product candidate; and. • a decline in our share price.. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance at a reasonable cost or in an amount adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise, if at all. Our insurance policy contains various exclusions, and we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no coverage. We may have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not. 38. Table of Contents. covered by our insurance, and we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pay such amounts. Even if our agreements with any future corporate collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise.. Adverse events in the field of immuno-oncology could damage public perception of our product candidates and negatively affect our business.. The commercial success of our products will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of cancer immunotherapies. Adverse events in clinical trials of JTX-2011, JTX-4014, any of our other future product candidates or other similar products and the resulting publicity, as well as any other adverse events in the field of immuno-oncology that may occur, including in connection with competitor therapies such as GlaxoSmithKline plc's anti-ICOS antibody, could result in a decrease in demand for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other products that we may develop. If public perception is influenced by claims that the use of cancer immunotherapies is unsafe, whether related to our or our competitors' therapies, our products may not be accepted by the general public or the medical community.. Future adverse events in immuno-oncology or the biopharmaceutical industry could also result in greater governmental regulation, stricter labeling requirements and potential regulatory delays in the testing or approvals of our products. Any increased scrutiny could delay or increase the costs of obtaining marketing approval for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates.. Healthcare legislative reform measures may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In the United States, there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. For example, in March 2010, the Affordable Care Act was passed, which substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the U.S. pharmaceutical industry.. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our product candidates or complementary diagnostics or companion diagnostics or additional pricing pressures.. For example, with enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which was signed by the President on December 22, 2017, Congress repealed the \"individual mandate.\"  The repeal of this provision, which requires most Americans to carry a minimal level of health insurance, will become effective in 2019.  According to the Congressional Budget Office, the repeal of the individual mandate will cause 13 million fewer Americans to be insured in 2027 and premiums in insurance markets may rise.  Further, each chamber of the Congress has put forth multiple bills designed to repeal or repeal and replace portions of the Affordable Care Act, or ACA.  Although none of these measures has been enacted by Congress to date, Congress may consider other legislation to repeal and replace elements of the ACA. The Congress will likely consider other legislation to replace elements of the ACA, during the next Congressional session.. The current administration has also taken executive actions to undermine or delay implementation of the ACA.  In January 2017, the President signed an Executive Order directing federal agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the ACA to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of any provision of the ACA that would impose a fiscal or regulatory burden on states, individuals, healthcare providers, health insurers, or manufacturers of pharmaceuticals or medical devices.  In October 2017, the President signed a second Executive Order allowing for the use of association health plans and short-term health insurance, which may provide fewer health benefits than the plans sold through the ACA exchanges.  At the same time, the Administration announced that it will discontinue the payment of cost-sharing reduction, or CSR, payments to insurance companies until Congress approves the appropriation of funds for such CSR payments. The loss of the CSR payments is expected to increase premiums on certain policies issued by qualified health plans under the ACA.  A bipartisan bill to appropriate funds for CSR payments was introduced in the Senate, but the future of that bill is uncertain.. 39. Table of Contents. Our future relationships with customers and third-party payors in the United States and elsewhere may be subject, directly or indirectly, to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, false claims, transparency, health information privacy and security and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm, administrative burdens and diminished profits and future earnings.. Our future arrangements with third-party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations. In addition, we may be subject to transparency laws and patient privacy regulation by the U.S. federal and state governments and by governments in foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. The applicable federal, state and foreign healthcare laws and regulations that may affect our ability to operate include the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, the federal legislation commonly referred to as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, and analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, any of which may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we sell, market and distribute any products for which we obtain marketing approval.. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors available under such laws, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. The scope and enforcement of each of these laws is also uncertain and any investigation or settlement could be time- and resource-consuming, divert management's attention, increase our costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other government regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to various significant penalties, any of which could harm our ability to operate our business and our financial results. In addition, the approval and commercialization of our product candidates outside the United States will also likely subject us to foreign equivalents of the healthcare laws mentioned above, among other foreign laws.. Risks Related to our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital. We have incurred net losses in every year since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur substantial and increasing net losses in the foreseeable future.. We are a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history, and we are early on in our development efforts. Investment in biopharmaceutical product development is highly speculative because it entails substantial upfront capital expenditures and significant risk that any potential product candidate will fail to demonstrate adequate effect or an acceptable safety profile, gain marketing approval and become commercially viable. We have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity securities, convertible debt securities and our collaboration with Celgene. Since our inception, most of our resources have been dedicated to the preclinical and clinical development of JTX-2011 and preclinical and planned clinical development of JTX-4014 and other discovery programs. The size of our future net losses will depend, in part, on our future expenses and our ability to generate additional revenue, if any. We have no products approved for commercial sale and have not generated any revenue from product sales to date, and we continue to incur significant research and development and other expenses related to our ongoing operations. As a result, we have incurred losses in each annual period since our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we reported net losses of $16.4 million, $13.7 million and $28.5 million, respectively.  As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $89.6 million. We expect to continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, and we expect these losses to increase as we continue our research and development of, and seek marketing approvals for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any future product candidates.. Even if we succeed in receiving marketing approval for and commercialize our product candidate, we will continue to incur substantial research and development and other expenditures to develop and market additional potential products. We may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may adversely affect our business. The size of our future net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of future growth of our expenses and our ability to generate revenue. Our prior losses and expected future losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital.. 40. Table of Contents. We have never generated any revenue from product sales and our ability to generate revenue from product sales and become profitable depends on our success on a number of factors.. We have no products approved for commercial sale, have not generated any revenue from product sales, and do not anticipate generating any revenue from product sales until some time after we have received marketing approval for the commercial sale of a product candidate, if ever. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends significantly on our success in many factors, including:. • completing clinical development of our lead product candidate, JTX-2011, and completing research and discovery and preclinical and clinical development of any other programs and product candidates;. • obtaining marketing approvals for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any future product candidates for which we complete clinical trials;. • developing a sustainable and scalable manufacturing process for our product candidates, including establishing and maintaining commercially viable supply and manufacturing relationships with third parties;. • launching and commercializing our product candidates for which we obtain marketing approvals, either directly or with a collaborator or distributor;. • obtaining market acceptance of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any future product candidates as viable treatment options;. • addressing any competing technological and market developments;. • identifying, assessing, acquiring and developing new product candidates;. • negotiating favorable terms in any collaboration, licensing, or other arrangements into which we may enter;. • obtaining, maintaining, protecting, and expanding our portfolio of intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, and know-how; and. • attracting, hiring, and retaining qualified personnel.. Even if our product candidates or any future product candidates that we develop are approved for commercial sale, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing any approved product candidate. These costs may fluctuate or exceed our expectations and our revenues will depend on many factors that we cannot control or estimate. If we are not able to generate revenue from the sale of any approved products, we may never become profitable.. We will require substantial additional financing to achieve our goals, and a failure to obtain this necessary capital when needed could force us to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts.. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. As of December 31, 2017, our cash, cash equivalents and investments were $257.9 million. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to continue the clinical development of JTX-2011 and preclinical and clinical development of JTX-4014 and any future product candidates. If we are able to gain marketing approval for any of our product candidates, we will require significant additional amounts of cash in order to launch and commercialize those product candidates to the extent that such launch and commercialization are not the responsibility of a collaborator. In addition, other unanticipated costs may arise. Because the design and outcome of our planned and anticipated clinical trials are highly uncertain, we cannot reasonably estimate the actual amounts necessary to successfully complete the development and commercialization of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including:. • the scope, progress, results and costs of researching and developing our product candidates, and conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials;. • the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining marketing approvals for our product candidates if clinical trials are successful;. • the success of our collaboration with Celgene;. • whether Celgene exercises its licensing and co-development options under our collaboration agreement with Celgene, each of which would trigger additional payments to us;. 41. Table of Contents. • the cost of commercialization activities for our product candidates, that are approved for sale, including marketing, sales and distribution costs;. • the cost of manufacturing our product candidates for clinical trials in preparation for marketing approval and in preparation for commercialization;. • our ability to establish and maintain strategic licensing or other arrangements and the financial terms of such agreements;. • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, expanding, defending and enforcing patent claims, including litigation costs and the outcome of such litigation;. • the timing, receipt, and amount of sales of, or royalties on, our future products, if any;. • the emergence of competing cancer therapies and other adverse market developments; and. • the requirement for and cost of developing complementary diagnostics and/or companion diagnostics.. We do not have any committed external source of funds or other support for our development efforts, other than our collaboration with Celgene, which is limited in scope and duration. We will not receive any option-exercise fees or milestone payments prior to Celgene exercising a licensing or co-development option. Until we can generate sufficient product and royalty revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we expect to finance our future cash needs through a combination of public or private equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations, strategic alliances, licensing arrangements and other marketing or distribution arrangements. Based on our research and development plans, we expect that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements for at least 24 months from the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on favorable terms when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or suspend one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs or our commercialization efforts.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates.. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock, stockholders' ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect our stockholders' rights. Debt financing, if available, would increase our fixed payment obligations and may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends.. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, and instead raise additional capital through marketing and distribution agreements or other collaborations, strategic alliances or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish certain valuable rights to JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, technologies, future revenue streams or research programs or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights for our product candidates or if our intellectual property rights are inadequate, our competitive position could be harmed.. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other intellectual property protection in the United States and other countries with respect to our product candidates. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, and confidentiality, licensing and other agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. We currently, or will in the future, seek to protect our proprietary position by filing and prosecuting patent applications in the United States and abroad related to JTX-2011, JTX-4014, any other future product candidates, and any future novel technologies that are important to our business.. 42. Table of Contents. The steps we or our licensors have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, both inside and outside of the United States.. If we or our licensors are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates, or if the scope of the patent protection obtained is not sufficient, our competitors could develop and commercialize products similar or superior to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates and future technologies may be adversely affected.. Our pending applications cannot be enforced against third parties unless and until a patent issues from such applications and, even after issuance, such patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Such proceedings may result in the loss of patent protection, the narrowing of claims in such patents or the invalidity or unenforceability of such patents, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical products, or limit the duration of the patent protection for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates. In addition, we cannot predict whether any of our future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents that effectively protect JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, or if any of our issued patents or if any of our licensor's issued patents will effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive products. In some cases, it may be difficult or impossible to detect third-party infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, even in relation to issued patent claims, and proving any such infringement may be even more difficult. If we are unable to obtain, maintain, and protect our intellectual property our competitive advantage could be harmed, and it could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and the results of operations and prospects.. Patent terms may be inadequate to protect our competitive position on our products for an adequate amount of time, and JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates for which we intend to seek approval as biologic products may face competition sooner than anticipated.. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. We expect to seek patent term adjustments or extensions of patent terms in the United States for our licensed patents and any patents we own in the future and, if available, in other countries where that may be available when we are prosecuting patents. In the United States, the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 permits a patent term extension of up to five years beyond the normal expiration of the patent, which is limited to the approved indication (or any additional indications approved during the period of extension). However, the applicable authorities, including the FDA and the USPTO in the United States, and any equivalent regulatory authority in other countries, may not agree with our assessment of whether such extensions are available, and may refuse to grant extensions to our patents, or may grant more limited extensions than we request. We may not be granted an extension because of, for example, failure to exercise due diligence during the testing phase or regulatory review process, failure to apply within applicable deadlines, failure to apply prior to expiration of relevant patents or otherwise failing to satisfy applicable requirements. If we are unable to obtain patent term extension or the term of any such extension is less than we request, our competitors may be able to take advantage of our investment in development and clinical trials by referencing our clinical and preclinical data and launch their product earlier than might otherwise be the case, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects.. The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCIA, established legal authority for the FDA to review and approve biosimilar biologics, including the possible designation of a biosimilar as \"interchangeable\" based on its similarity to an existing brand product. Under the BPCIA, an application for a biosimilar product cannot be approved by the FDA until 12 years after the original branded product was approved under a BLA. The law is complex and is still being interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its ultimate impact, implementation, and meaning are subject to uncertainty. While it is uncertain when such processes intended to implement BPCIA may be fully adopted by the FDA, any such processes could have a material adverse effect on the future commercial prospects for our biological products.. We intend to seek market exclusivity for our biological product candidate that is subject to its own BLA for 12 years in the United States, 10 years in Europe and other durations in other markets. However, the term of the patents that cover such product candidates may not extend beyond the applicable market exclusivity awarded by a particular country. For example, in the United States, if all of the patents that cover our particular biologic product expire before the 12-year market exclusivity expires, a third party could submit a marketing application for a biosimilar product four years after approval of our biologic product, and the FDA could immediately review the application and approve the biosimilar product for marketing 12 years after approval of our biologic. Alternatively, a third party could. 43. Table of Contents. submit a BLA for a similar or identical product any time after approval of our biologic product, and the FDA could immediately review and approve the similar or identical product for marketing and the third party could begin marketing the similar or identical product upon expiry of all of the patents that cover our particular biologic product.. Additionally, there is a risk that this exclusivity could be shortened due to congressional action, potentially creating the opportunity for biosimilar competition sooner than anticipated. The extent to which a biosimilar, once approved, will be substituted for any one of our reference products in a way that is similar to traditional generic substitution for non-biological products is not yet clear, and will depend on a number of marketplace and regulatory factors that are still developing.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected.. In addition to seeking patent protection, we also rely on other proprietary rights, including protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets and proprietary information, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, collaborators and other third parties who have access to our trade secrets. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual's relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also provide that any inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms. The assignment of intellectual property rights may not be self-executing or the assignment agreements may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims that they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. In addition, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection, particularly for our trade secrets or other confidential information.. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive, and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. The disclosure of our trade secrets or the independent development of our trade secrets by a competitor or other third party would impair our competitive position and may materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could harm our business.. Our commercial success depends on our ability and the ability of our current or future collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates, and to use our related proprietary technologies without infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the intellectual property and proprietary rights of third parties. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. We may become party to, or threatened with, adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our current and any other future product candidates. For example, we are aware of third party patents generally directed to methods of treating certain indications with an anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody that may be construed to cover one or more of our current and future product candidates. If we are found to infringe a third-party's intellectual property rights, and we are unsuccessful in demonstrating that such intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable, we could be required to obtain a license from such third party to continue developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, it could be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors and other third parties access to the same technologies licensed to us, and it could require us to make substantial licensing and royalty payments. We also could be forced, including by court order, to cease developing, manufacturing, and commercializing our product candidates. In addition, in any such proceeding or litigation, we could be found liable for significant monetary damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a patent or other intellectual property right. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. In addition, we are testing JTX-2011 and expect to test future product candidates with other products that are covered by patents held by other companies or institutions. In the event that a labeling instruction is required in product packaging recommending that combination, we could be accused of, or held liable for, infringement of the. 44. Table of Contents. third-party patents covering the product candidate or product recommended for administration with our product candidates. In such a case, we could be required to obtain a license from the other company or institution to use the required or desired package labeling, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. If we breach any of our license agreements or collaboration agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on our commercialization efforts for our product candidates.. Our commercial success depends on our ability, and at times, the ability of our licensors and current or future collaborators to develop, manufacture, market, and sell our product candidates, and use our licensors proprietary technologies without infringing the property rights of third parties. For example, we have entered into our Celgene Collaboration Agreement relating to JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and other product candidates, and an exclusive license agreement with Sloan Kettering Institute for Cancer Research, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and Memorial Hospital for Cancer and The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center related to certain uses of our JTX-2011, and we may enter into additional licenses in the future. These and other licenses may not provide exclusive rights to use such intellectual property and technology in all relevant fields of use and in all territories in which we may wish to develop or commercialize our products in the future. As a result, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing and commercializing competitive products in territories included in all our licenses.. In addition, we may not have the right to control the preparation, filing, prosecution, maintenance, enforcement and defense of patents and patent applications covering the technology that we license from third parties. For example, under our Celgene Collaboration Agreement, under certain circumstances, Celgene has the first right to enforce, maintain or defend our intellectual property rights with respect to certain licensed programs. Therefore, we cannot be certain that these patents and patent applications will be prepared, filed, prosecuted, maintained, enforced, and defended in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. If our licensors fail to prosecute, maintain, enforce and defend such patents, or lose rights to those patents or patent applications, the rights we have licensed may be reduced or eliminated and our right to develop and commercialize our product candidates that are the subject of such licensed rights could be adversely affected. Furthermore, our owned and in-licensed patents may be subject to a reservation of rights by one or more third parties.. Certain of our license agreements also require us to meet development thresholds to maintain the license, including establishing a set timeline for developing and commercializing products. If we fail to comply with the obligations under our license agreements, including payment and diligence terms, our licensors may have the right to terminate our agreements. Such an occurrence could materially adversely affect the value of the product candidate being developed under any such agreement. Termination of our license agreements or reduction or elimination of our rights under them may result in our having to negotiate a new or reinstated agreement, which may not be available to us on equally favorable terms, or at all.. If disputes over intellectual property that we have licensed prevent or impair our ability to maintain our current licensing arrangements on commercially acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize the affected product candidates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and prospects.. Further, the resolution of any contract interpretation disagreement that may arise could narrow what we believe to be the scope of our rights to the relevant intellectual property or technology, or increase what we believe to be our financial or other obligations under the relevant agreement, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We may not be successful in obtaining necessary rights to our product candidates we may develop, or obtain through acquisitions and in-licenses.. We currently have rights to intellectual property, through licenses from third parties, for certain uses of JTX-2011. Because JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates may require the use of proprietary rights held by third parties, the growth of our business likely will depend, in part, on our ability to acquire, in-license or use these proprietary rights. We may be unable to acquire or in-license any compositions, methods of use, processes or other intellectual property rights from third parties that we identify as necessary for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and other future product candidates. The licensing or acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights is a competitive area, and several more established companies may pursue strategies to license or acquire third-party intellectual property rights that we may consider attractive. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, capital resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities.. 45. Table of Contents. If we are unable to successfully obtain required third-party intellectual property rights or maintain the existing intellectual property rights we have, we may have to abandon or alter our plans for the development or commercialization of the relevant program or product candidate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and all other future product candidates throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States can be less extensive than those in the United States.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. Any efforts to enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property we develop or license.. Moreover, many countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. If we or any of our licensors is forced to grant a license to third parties with respect to any patents relevant to our business, our competitive position may be impaired and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Generic or biosimilar product manufacturers may develop, seek approval for, and launch biosimilar versions or generic versions, respectively, of our products. The FDA has published draft guidance documents on biosimilar product development. For the FDA to approve a biosimilar product as interchangeable with a reference product, the agency must find that the biosimilar product can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the reference product and, for products administered multiple times, the biosimilar and the reference biologic may be switched after one has been previously administered without increasing safety risks or risks of diminished efficacy relative to exclusive use of the reference biologic. If JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates are approved by the FDA, the approval of a biosimilar product to one of our products could have a material impact on our business. In particular, a biosimilar product could be significantly less costly to bring to market and priced significantly lower than our products, if approved by the FDA.. Obtaining and maintaining patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payments and other similar provisions during the patent application process and to maintain patents after they are issued. In certain circumstances, we rely on our licensing partners to take the necessary action to comply with these requirements with respect to our licensed intellectual property. While an unintentional lapse can be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. If we fail to obtain and maintain the patents and patent applications covering our products or procedures, we may not be able to stop a competitor from marketing products that are the same as or similar to JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Changes to the patent law in the United States and other jurisdictions could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our product candidates.. As is the case with other biopharmaceutical companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the biopharmaceutical industry involves both technological and legal complexity and is therefore costly, time consuming and inherently uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States could increase the uncertainties and costs.. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. Depending on future actions by the U.S. Congress, the U.S. courts, the USPTO and the relevant law-making bodies in other countries, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future. Changes in patent law could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent. 46. Table of Contents. applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our intellectual property, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful and have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. Competitors may infringe our licensed patents or any patent we own in the future or misappropriate or otherwise violate our intellectual property rights. We may also be required to defend against claims of infringement and our licensed patents and any patents we own in the future may become involved in priority or other intellectual property related disputes. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of our own intellectual property rights or the proprietary rights of others. Also, third parties may initiate legal proceedings against us or our licensors to assert that we are infringing their intellectual property rights or to challenge the validity or scope of our owned or licensed intellectual property rights. Litigation and other intellectual property related proceedings could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, which could harm our business and financial results. Despite our best efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. In addition, an adverse result in any litigation or other intellectual property related proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable or interpreted narrowly.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be disclosed during this type of litigation. There could also be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in any such proceedings. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it also could have a material adverse effect on the price of shares of our common stock. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that our collaborators, licensors, employees or we have misappropriated their intellectual property, have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties or are in breach of non-competition or non-solicitation agreements with our competitors.. Many of our employees, our collaborators' employees and our licensors' employees, including our senior management, are currently or previously were employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Some of these employees, including each member of our senior management, executed proprietary rights, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements, or similar agreements, in connection with such previous employment. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have used or disclosed intellectual property of any such individual's current or former employer. In addition, we could be subject to claims that we or our employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or other confidential information of former employers or competitors, that we caused an employee to  breach the terms of his or her non-competition or non-solicitation agreement, or that we or these individuals have, inadvertently or otherwise, used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of a former employer or competitor. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel or sustain monetary damages. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Issued patents covering JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates could be found invalid or unenforceable if challenged in court or before the USPTO or comparable foreign authority.. If we or one of our licensing partners initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering one of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates, the defendant could counterclaim that the patent covering our product candidate is invalid or unenforceable. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. If a third party were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection on JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates. Such a loss of patent protection could have a material adverse impact on our business.. 47. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Employee Matters, Managing our Growth and Other Risks Related to our Business. We currently have no marketing and sales organization and have no experience in marketing products. If we are unable to establish marketing and sales capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may not be able to generate product revenue.. We currently have no sales, marketing, or distribution capabilities and have no experience in marketing products. If any of our product candidates receives appropriate regulatory approval, we intend to develop an in-house marketing organization and sales force, which will require significant capital expenditures, management resources and time. We will have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain marketing and sales personnel.. If we are unable or decide not to establish internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, we will pursue collaborative arrangements regarding the sales and marketing of our products; however, we cannot assure stockholders that we will be able to establish or maintain such collaborative arrangements, on favorable terms if at all. We cannot assure stockholders that we will be able to develop in-house sales and distribution capabilities or establish or maintain relationships with third-party collaborators to commercialize any current or future product candidates.. We will need to grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 112 full-time employees, including 87 employees engaged in research and development. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, we expect to need additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial and other personnel. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including:. • identifying, recruiting, integrating, maintaining and motivating additional employees;. • managing our internal development efforts effectively, including the clinical and FDA review process for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, while complying with our contractual obligations to contractors and other third parties; and. • improving our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures.. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively expand our organization by hiring new employees and expand our groups of consultants and contractors and manage any future growth, and our management may also have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from day-to-day activities in order to devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities.. We currently rely, and for the foreseeable future will continue to rely, in substantial part on certain independent organizations, advisors and consultants to provide certain services, including substantially all aspects of marketing approval, clinical management, and manufacturing. We cannot assure stockholders that we can effectively manage our outsourced activities.. We are highly dependent on our key personnel, and if we are not successful in attracting, motivating and retaining highly qualified personnel, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy.. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries depends upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific and medical personnel. We are highly dependent on our management, particularly our chief executive officer, Richard Murray, and our scientific and medical personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, key employees, and scientific and medical advisors, and our inability to find suitable replacements, could result in delays in product development and harm our business.. We conduct our operations at our facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in a region that is home to many other biopharmaceutical companies and many academic and research institutions. Competition for skilled personnel is intense and the turnover rate can be high, which may limit our ability to hire and retain highly qualified personnel on acceptable terms or at all. We expect that we will need to recruit talent from outside of our region, and doing so may be costly and difficult.. To induce valuable employees to remain at our Company, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we have provided restricted stock and stock option grants that vest over time. The value to employees of these equity grants. 48. Table of Contents. that vest over time may be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that are beyond our control, and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. Although we have employment agreements with our key employees, these employment agreements provide for at-will employment, meaning that such employees could leave our employment at any time, with or without notice. We do not maintain \"key man\" insurance policies on the lives of all of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees.. If we fail to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we could become subject to fines or penalties or incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures and the handling, use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. Our operations involve the use of hazardous and flammable materials, including chemicals and biological and radioactive materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We generally contract with third parties for the disposal of these materials and wastes. We cannot eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of contamination or injury resulting from our use of hazardous materials, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. We also could incur significant costs associated with civil or criminal fines and penalties.. Although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of hazardous materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us in connection with our storage or disposal of biological, hazardous or radioactive materials.. Our internal computer systems, or those used by our CROs or other collaborators, may fail or suffer security breaches and cyber-attacks, which could compromise our intellectual property or other sensitive information and could result in a material disruption of our business.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses and unauthorized access. While we have not to our knowledge experienced any such material system failure or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur, it could result in a material disruption of our business operations. Likewise, we rely on third parties for many aspects of our business, including manufacturing product candidates and conducting clinical trials. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our business and reputation. We believe that companies have been increasingly subject to a wide variety of security incidents, cyber-attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access. These threats can come from a variety of sources, ranging in sophistication from an individual hacker to a state-sponsored attack. Cyber threats may be generic, or they may be custom-crafted against our information systems. Over the past few years, cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and much harder to detect and defend against.. Our network and storage applications and those of our CROs, collaborators and vendors may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers or breached due to operator error, malfeasance or other system disruptions. It is often difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage caused by them. These data breaches and any unauthorized access or disclosure of our information or intellectual property could compromise our intellectual property and expose sensitive business information. A data security breach could also lead to public exposure of personal information of our employees. Cyber-attacks could cause us to incur significant remediation costs, disrupt key business operations and divert attention of management and key information technology resources. Our network security and data recovery measures and those of our CROs, collaborators and vendors may not be adequate to protect against such security breaches and disruptions. To the extent that any disruption, security breach or cyber-attack were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed.. 49. Table of Contents. We, or the third parties upon whom we depend, may be adversely affected by natural disasters and our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not adequately protect us from a serious disaster.. Natural disasters could severely disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. If a natural disaster, power outage or other event occurred that damaged critical infrastructure, such as our headquarters or the manufacturing facilities of our third-party contract manufacturers, or that otherwise disrupted operations, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible for us to continue our business for a substantial period of time. The disaster recovery and business continuity plans we have in place may prove inadequate in the event of a serious disaster or similar event. We may incur substantial expenses as a result of the limited nature of our disaster recovery and business continuity plans, which, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our employees, independent contractors, vendors, principal investigators, CROs and consultants may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including non-compliance with regulatory standards and requirements and insider trading.. We are exposed to the risk that our employees, independent contractors, vendors, principal investigators, CROs and consultants may engage in fraudulent conduct or other illegal activity. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct or disclosure of unauthorized activities to us that violate the regulations of the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including those laws requiring the reporting of true, complete and accurate information to such authorities; healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations in the United States and abroad; or laws that require the reporting of financial information or data accurately. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, misconduct, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. We have adopted a code of conduct applicable to all of our employees, but it is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to comply with these laws or regulations. Additionally, we are subject to the risk that a person could allege such fraud or other misconduct, even if none occurred. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could result in significant penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and our results of operations.. If we engage in future acquisitions or strategic partnerships, this may increase our capital requirements, dilute our stockholders, cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities, and subject us to other risks.. We may evaluate various acquisitions and additional strategic partnerships, including licensing or acquiring complementary products, intellectual property rights, technologies, or businesses. Any potential acquisition or strategic partnership may entail numerous risks, including:. • increased operating expenses and cash requirements;. • the assumption of additional indebtedness or contingent liabilities;. • the issuance of our equity securities;. • assimilation of operations, intellectual property and products of an acquired company, including difficulties associated with integrating new personnel;. • the diversion of our management's attention from our existing product programs and initiatives in pursuing such a strategic merger or acquisition;. • retention of key employees, the loss of key personnel, and uncertainties in our ability to maintain key business relationships;. • risks and uncertainties associated with the other party to such a transaction, including the prospects of that party and their existing products or product candidates and marketing approvals; and. • our inability to generate revenue from acquired technology and/or products sufficient to meet our objectives in undertaking the acquisition or even to offset the associated acquisition and maintenance costs.. In addition, if we undertake acquisitions, we may issue dilutive securities, assume or incur debt obligations, incur large one-time expenses and acquire intangible assets that could result in significant future amortization expense.. 50. Table of Contents. Moreover, we may not be able to locate suitable acquisition opportunities and this inability could impair our ability to grow or obtain access to technology or products that may be important to the development of our business.. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and stock price.. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by any economic downturn, volatile business environment or unpredictable and unstable conditions in global credit and financial markets. We cannot assure stockholders that deterioration of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our stock price, our current portfolio of cash equivalents or investments, or our ability to meet our financing objectives. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes has been limited by \"ownership changes\" and may be further limited.. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the IRC, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in the ownership of its equity over a three-year period), the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards and certain other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. An IRC Section 382 study, completed in August 2016, identified three previous ownership changes for purposes of IRC Section 382. As a result of these ownership changes, our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards allocable to the periods preceding each such ownership change are subject to limitations under IRC Section 382. We may experience ownership changes in the future as a result subsequent shifts in our stock ownership, some of which are outside our control, which may also be subject to limitations by \"ownership changes\" in the future, which could result in increased tax liability to us.. The price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate substantially, which could result in substantial losses for purchasers of our common stock.. Our stock price is likely to be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:. • the success of competitive products or technologies;. • results of our clinical trials or those of our competitors;. • regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries;. • developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights;. • the recruitment or departure of key personnel;. • the level of expenses related to our product candidates or clinical development programs;. • the results of our efforts to discover, develop, acquire or in-license additional product candidates or drugs;. • actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;. • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;. • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;. • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors;. • general economic, industry and market conditions; and. • the other factors described in this \"Risk factors\" section.. 51. Table of Contents. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained.. Our shares of common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on January 27, 2017. Given the limited trading history of our common stock, there is a risk that an active trading market for our shares will not be sustained, which could put downward pressure on the market price of our common stock and thereby affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns will be limited to the value of our stock.. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation of their stock.. Our executive officers, directors, principal stockholders and their affiliates will continue to exercise control over our Company, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers and directors, combined with our stockholders who owned more than 5% of our outstanding common stock, and their affiliates, beneficially owned approximately 77% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any sale, merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, this concentration of ownership might adversely affect the market price of our common stock by:. • delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control;. • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination; or. • discouraging a potential acquiror from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control.. We are incurring and will continue to incur significantly increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is now required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives.. As a public company, we are incurring and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, as well as various requirements imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, rules subsequently adopted by the SEC and Nasdaq to implement provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Stockholder activism, the current political environment and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, which may lead to additional compliance costs and impact the manner in which we operate our business in ways we cannot currently anticipate.. We expect the rules and regulations applicable to public companies to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. We also expect that we will need to hire additional accounting, finance and other personnel in connection with our efforts to comply with the requirements of being a public company, and our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time towards maintaining compliance with these requirements. We cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to these requirements. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall.. Certain stockholders hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock. If such stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. In addition, shares of common stock that are either subject to outstanding options or reserved for future issuance under our stock incentive plans will become eligible for sale in the public market extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting schedules and Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the. 52. Table of Contents. Securities Act, and, in any event, we have filed a registration statement permitting shares of common stock issued on exercise of options to be freely sold in the public market. If these additional shares of common stock are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Certain holders of our common stock are entitled to rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares held by affiliates. Any sales of securities by these stockholders who have exercised registration rights could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance.. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. From time to time, we may enter into license or collaboration agreements with other companies that include development funding and significant upfront and milestone payments and/or royalties, which may become an important source of our revenue. Accordingly, our revenue may depend on development funding and the achievement of development and clinical milestones under current and any potential future license and collaboration agreements and sales of our products, if approved. These upfront and milestone payments may vary significantly from period to period and any such variance could cause a significant fluctuation in our operating results from one period to the next.. Furthermore, our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of other factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including the following:. • the timing and cost of, and level of investment in, research and development activities relating to our current and any future product candidates, which will change from time to time;. • our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials and the timing of enrollment;. • the cost of manufacturing our current and any future product candidates, which may vary depending on FDA guidelines and requirements, the quantity of production and the terms of our agreements with manufacturers;. • expenditures that we will or may incur to acquire or develop additional product candidates and technologies;. • the timing and outcomes of clinical studies for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates or competing product candidates;. • competition from existing and future products that may compete with JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, and changes in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors or partners;. • any delays in regulatory review or approval of JTX-2011, JTX-4014 or any other future product candidates;. • the level of demand for JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, if approved, which may fluctuate significantly and be difficult to predict;. • our ability to commercialize JTX-2011, JTX-4014 and any other future product candidates, if approved;. • the success of our collaboration with Celgene and our ability to establish and maintain other collaborations, licensing or other arrangements;. • our ability to adequately support future growth;. • potential unforeseen business disruptions that increase our costs or expenses;. • future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies; and. • the changing and volatile global economic environment.. The cumulative effect of these factors could result in large fluctuations and unpredictability in our quarterly and annual operating results. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Investors should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of analysts or investors or below any forecasts we may provide to the market, or if the forecasts we provide to the market are below the expectations of analysts or investors, the. 53. Table of Contents. price of our common stock could decline substantially. Such a stock price decline could occur even when we have met any previously publicly stated revenue and/or earnings guidance we may provide.. Moreover, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us as pharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. If we face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will rely, in part, on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts covering our business downgrade their evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover our stock, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which, in turn, could cause our stock price to decline.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to obtain greater value for stockholders by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer rejected by our board were considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.. Our bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our bylaws, provide that, unless we consent in writing to an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers and employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each case subject to the Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in any shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to this provision of our bylaws. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees even though an action, if successful, might benefit our stockholders. Stockholders who do bring a claim in the Court of Chancery could face additional litigation costs in pursuing any such claim, particularly if they do not reside in or near the State of Delaware. The Court of Chancery may also reach different judgments or results than would other courts, including courts where a stockholder considering an action may be located or would otherwise choose to bring the action, and such judgments or results may be more favorable to us than to our stockholders. Alternatively, if a court were to find this provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations."
