[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. KCS U.S. and Mexico rail common carrier subsidiaries are required by United States and Mexican laws, respectively, to transport hazardous materials, which could expose KCS to significant costs and claims.. Under United States federal statutes and applicable Mexican laws, KCS's common carrier responsibility requires it to transport hazardous materials. Any rail accident or other incident or accident on KCS's network, facilities, or at the facilities of KCS's customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard materials, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation in excess of the Company's insurance coverage for these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. KCS's business is subject to regulation by federal, state and local legislatures and agencies that could impose significant cost on the Company's business operations.. KCS rail subsidiaries are subject to legislation and regulation enacted by federal, state and local legislatures and agencies in the U.S. and Mexico with respect to railroad operations. Government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. Changes in legislation or regulation could have a negative impact on KCS's ability to negotiate prices for rail services, could negatively affect competition among rail carriers, or could negatively impact operating practices, resulting in reduced efficiency, increased operating costs or increased capital investment, all of which could result in a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. New economic regulation in the U.S. or Mexico in current or future proceedings could change the regulatory framework within which the Company operates which could materially change the Company's business and have an adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.. Pursuant to the Mexican Antitrust Law and the Regulatory Railroad Service Law, the COFECE announced that it would review competitive conditions in the Mexican railroad industry, with respect to the existence of effective competition in the provision of interconnection services, trackage rights, switching rights and interline services used to render public freight transport in Mexico. The COFECE review includes the entire freight rail transportation market in Mexico and is not targeted to any single rail carrier. If the COFECE determines there is a lack of effective competition, the COFECE could request the ARTF, which has primary regulatory jurisdiction over the Company's Mexican operations, to conduct proceedings to determine whether to establish new limited mandatory trackage rights and/or rate regulation under the Amendments to the Mexican Regulatory Railroad Service Law. Such proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.. 10. Table of Contents. As part of the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 in the United States, Class I railroad carriers and passenger and commuter rail operators must implement PTC, a technology designed to help prevent train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into rail work zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned. PTC is required to be implemented at certain locations, including main line track where toxic inhalation hazard movements regularly occur or where passenger operations occur. The Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2015 extended the PTC implementation deadline from the end of 2015 to the end of 2018, conditioned upon the filing of revised PTC Implementation Plans, with a further two-year extension possible subject to review by the Department of Transportation. KCS filed a revised PTC Implementation Plan by the statutory due date. PTC will add to operating costs, increase the number of employees the Company employs and require KCS to make significant investments in new safety technology. KCS's failure to meet deadlines, including any extension, could result in fines, service interruptions or penalties and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.. KCS's inadvertent failure or inability to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including fines, penalties, or limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. Congress and government agencies may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the Company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the Company's business that occur as a result of such change. Additionally, some of the regulations require KCS to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. Any failure to obtain or maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect KCS's business operations.. KCSM's Mexican Concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain circumstances which would prevent KCSM from conducting rail operations over the Concession and would have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.. KCSM operates under the Concession granted by the Mexican government until June 2047, which is renewable for an additional period of up to 50 years, subject to certain conditions. The Concession gives KCSM exclusive rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail lines for the first 30 years of the 50-year Concession, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires. The SCT and ARTF, which are principally responsible for regulating railroad services in Mexico, have broad powers to monitor KCSM's compliance with the Concession, and they can require KCSM to supply them with any technical, administrative and financial information they request. Among other obligations, KCSM must comply with the investment commitments established in its business plan, which forms an integral part of the Concession, and must update the plan every three years. The SCT treats KCSM's business plans confidentially. The SCT and ARTF also monitor KCSM's compliance with efficiency and safety standards established in the Concession. The SCT and ARTF review, and may amend, these standards from time to time.. Under the Concession, KCSM has the right to operate its rail lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated structures. If the Mexican government legally terminates the Concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain assets used in the operation of KCSM's rail lines. All other property not covered by the Concession, including all locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, would remain KCSM's property. In the event of early termination, or total or partial revocation of the Concession, the Mexican government would have the right to cause the Company to lease all service-related assets to it for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for additional one-year terms up to five years. The amount of rent would be determined by experts appointed by KCSM and the Mexican government. The Mexican government must exercise this right within four months after early termination or revocation of the Concession. In addition, the Mexican government would also have a right of first refusal with respect to certain transfers by KCSM of railroad equipment within 90 days after revocation of the Concession.. The Mexican government may also temporarily seize control of KCSM's rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger to the domestic peace or economy. In such a case, the SCT may restrict KCSM's ability to exploit the Concession in such manner as the SCT deems necessary under the circumstances, but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. Mexican law requires that the Mexican government pay compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public interest. With respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause other than international war, the Mexican Regulatory Railroad Service Law and regulations provide that the Mexican government will indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to damages caused and losses suffered. However, these payments may not be sufficient to compensate KCSM for its losses and may not be made timely.. 11. Table of Contents. The SCT may revoke the Concession if KCSM is sanctioned at least three times within a period of five years for any of the following: unjustly interrupting the operation of its rail lines or for charging rates higher than those it has registered with the ARTF; unlawfully restricting the ability of other Mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; failing to make payments for damages caused during the performance of services; failing to comply with any term or condition of the Mexican Regulatory Railroad Service Law and regulations or the Concession; failing to make the capital investments required under its three-year business plan filed with the SCT; or failing to maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the Mexican Regulatory Railroad Service Law and regulations. In addition, the Concession would terminate automatically if KCSM changes its nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the Concession, or if there is a change in control of KCSM without the SCT's approval. The SCT may also terminate the Concession as a result of KCSM's surrender of its rights under the Concession, or for reasons of public interest or upon KCSM's liquidation or bankruptcy. If the Concession is terminated or revoked by the SCT for any reason, KCSM would receive no compensation and its interest in its rail lines, and all other fixtures covered by the Concession, as well as all improvements made by it, would revert to the Mexican government. Revocation or termination of the Concession could adversely affect the Company's consolidated financial statements.. KCS's ownership of KCSM and operations in Mexico subject it to economic and political risks.. The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Accordingly, Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on Mexican private sector entities in general and on KCSM's operations in particular. KCS cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including multiparty rule and civil disobedience, will have on the Mexican economy. Furthermore, KCS's consolidated financial statements and prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting Mexico.. The Mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. Although Mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there are currently no exchange controls in Mexico. Pursuant to the provisions of NAFTA, if Mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the future, Mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in Mexico, including those made by United States and Canadian investors. Any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect KCS's ability to obtain U.S. dollars or to convert Mexican pesos (\"pesos\" or \"Ps.\") into dollars for purposes of making payments. This could have a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. The social and political situation in Mexico could adversely affect the Mexican economy and changes in laws, public policies and government programs could be enacted, which could have an adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. Downturns in the United States economy or in trade between the United States and Asia or Mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates would likely have adverse effects on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. The level and timing of KCS's Mexican business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of United States-Mexican trade and the effects of NAFTA on such trade. The Mexican operations depend on the United States and Mexican markets for the products KCSM transports, the relative position of Mexico and the United States in these markets at any given time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. Failure to preserve NAFTA free trade provisions, or any other action imposing import duties or border taxes, could negatively impact KCS customers and the volume of rail shipments, and could have a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. Downturns in the United States or Mexican economies or in trade between the United States and Mexico would likely have adverse effects on KCS's consolidated financial statements and the Company's ability to meet debt service obligations. In addition, KCS has invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations, including the Port of Lazaro Cardenas, in part to provide Asian importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of the United States, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of Asian shipments routed through Lazaro Cardenas. Reduction in trading volumes, which may be caused by factors beyond KCS's control, including increased government regulations regarding the safety and quality of Asian-manufactured products, may adversely affect KCS's consolidated financial statements.. Additionally, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of Mexican imports and exports. Although a decrease in the level of exports of some of the commodities that KCSM transports to the United States may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities KCSM hauls into Mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. Future developments in United States-Mexican trade beyond. 12. Table of Contents. the Company's control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities KCSM carries.. Severe weakening of the peso against the U.S. dollar may result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. Although the Mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of Mexico, the Mexican government could, as in the past, institute restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability to transfer or convert pesos into U.S. dollars or other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments and contractual commitments. Devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the U.S. dollar may also adversely affect U.S. dollar prices for KCS's securities.. Fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates also have an effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements. A weakening of the peso against the U.S. dollar would cause reported peso-denominated revenues and expenses to decrease, and would increase reported foreign exchange loss due to the Company's net monetary assets that are peso-denominated. Exchange rate variations also affect the calculation of taxes under Mexican income tax law, and a strengthening of the peso against the U.S. dollar would cause an increase in the Company's cash tax obligation and effective income tax rate.. Severe weather or other natural disasters could result in significant business interruptions and expenditures.. The Company's operations may be affected by severe weather or other natural disasters. The Company operates in and along the Gulf of Mexico, and its facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and other extreme weather conditions that could also adversely affect KCS's shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. Severe weather or other natural disasters could result in significant business interruption and could have a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. KCS's business may be adversely affected by changes in general economic or other conditions.. KCS's operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the freight that KCS transports. The relative strength or weakness of the United States and Mexican economies affects the businesses served by KCS. A significant and sustained decrease in crude oil prices could adversely affect the transport of crude oil by rail to the U.S. Gulf region as well as negatively impact railroad volumes related to equipment and other materials that support crude oil production. Prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets, including the availability of short and long-term debt financing, may affect KCS, as well as the producers and consumers of the commodities that KCS transports and may have a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. The transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. Although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market that may influence operating results. Some of KCS's customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the energy, automotive, housing and agriculture industries. Any downturn or change in government policy in these industries could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Also, some of the products transported have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. KCS cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, the Company's consolidated financial statements.. Significant reductions in the volume of rail shipments due to economic or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. KCS depends on the stability, availability and security of its information technology systems to operate its business.. KCS relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. A significant disruption or failure of its information technology systems, including its computer hardware, software, communications equipment, wayside equipment or locomotive onboard equipment could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security failures, regulatory compliance failures or other operational difficulties.. The security risks associated with information technology systems have increased in recent years because of the increased sophistication, activities and evolving techniques of perpetrators of cyber attacks. A failure in or breach of KCS's information. 13. Table of Contents. technology security systems, or those of its third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or unauthorized access to its network could disrupt KCS's business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase its costs and/or cause losses and reputational damage. KCS also confronts the risk that a terrorist or nation-state sponsored group may seek to use its property, including KCS's information technology systems, to inflict major harm.. A significant disruption, failure or unauthorized access of KCS's information technology system could have a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. Capacity constraints could adversely affect service and operating efficiency.. KCS may experience capacity constraints due to increased demand for rail services, unavailability of equipment, crew shortages, or extreme weather. Also, due to the interconnectivity between all railroads, especially in the U.S., congestion on other railroads could result in operational inefficiencies for KCS.. Traffic congestion experienced in the U.S. or Mexican railroad system may result in overall traffic congestion which would impact the ability to move traffic to and from Mexico. In addition, the growth of cross border traffic in recent years has contributed to congestion on the international bridge at the Nuevo Laredo-Laredo border gateway, which is expected to continue in the near future. This could also result in operational inefficiencies for KCS and adversely affect KCS's operations.. Significant expansions in the capacity of the Company's network can require a substantial amount of time and investment. Although KCS constantly monitors its network in an effort to optimize its rail services, there can be no assurance that such measures will adequately address capacity constraints on a timely basis.. KCS may be subject to various claims and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. The Company may be exposed to the potential of various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, commercial disputes, freight loss and other property damage, and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. Any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. KCS competes against other railroads and other transportation providers.. The Company's domestic and international operations are subject to competition from other railroads, as well as from truck carriers, barge lines, and other maritime shippers. Many of KCS's rail competitors are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than KCS, which may enable rail competitors to reduce rates and make KCS's freight services less competitive. KCS's ability to respond to competitive pressures by matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on, among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs. KCS's failure to respond to competitive pressures, and particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.. The railroad industry is dominated by a few large carriers. These larger railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to block other railroads' access to gateways and routing options that are currently and have historically been available. In addition, if there is future consolidation in the railroad industry in the United States or Mexico, there can be no assurance that it will not have an adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.. Trucking, maritime, and barge competitors, while able to provide rate and service competition to the railroad industry, are able to use public rights-of-way, require substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and allow for more frequent and flexible scheduling. Continuing competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, developments that increase the quality or decrease the cost of alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which the Company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions, could result in downward pressure on freight rates, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.. A key part of KCS's growth strategy is based upon the conversion of truck traffic to rail. There can be no assurance the Company will succeed in its efforts to convert traffic from truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted will be retained. If the railroad industry in general is unable to preserve its competitive advantages vis-à-vis the trucking industry,. 14. Table of Contents. revenue growth could be adversely affected. Additionally, revenue growth could be affected by, among other factors, an expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of NAFTA, and KCS's inability to grow its existing customer base and capture additional cargo transport market share because of competition from the shipping industry and other railroads.. KCS's business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties.. Operation of KCS's rail network and its plans for growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable KCS to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the Company does not own. KCS's ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other railroads and third parties, and upon the performance of the obligations under the agreements by the other railroads and third parties. The termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could adversely affect KCS's consolidated financial statements. KCS is also dependent in part upon the financial strength and efficient performance of other railroads. There can be no assurance that KCS will not be materially adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads.. KCS is subject to environmental regulations, which may impose significant costs on the Company's business operations.. KCS subsidiaries' operations are subject to environmental regulation enacted by federal, state and local legislatures in the U.S. and Mexico. From time to time, certain KCS facilities have not been in compliance with environmental health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that KCS will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. Environmental liability under federal and state law in the United States can also extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by the Company. Environmental liabilities may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties. Given the nature of its business, the Company incurs, and expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. KCS presently has environmental investigation and remediation obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such obligations at additional sites in the future.. The Company's Mexican subsidiaries' operations are subject to Mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. Under applicable Mexican law and regulations, administrative and criminal proceedings may be brought and economic sanctions imposed against companies that violate environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be temporarily or permanently closed. KCSM is also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of each of the Mexican states in which KCSM's facilities are located. The terms of KCSM's Concession from the Mexican government also impose environmental compliance obligations on KCSM. Failure to comply with any environmental laws or regulations may result in the termination of KCSM's Concession or in fines or penalties that may affect profitability.. Liabilities accrued for environmental costs represent the Company's best estimate of the probable future obligation for the remediation and settlement of matters related to these sites. However, remediation costs may exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the extent of other parties' participation, developments in environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately be required. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. KCS's inadvertent failure or inability to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements and operations, including fines, penalties, or limitations on operating activities until compliance with applicable requirements is achieved. Government entities may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which the Company operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on the Company's business that occur as a result of such change. Additionally, some of the regulations require KCS to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other authorizations. Any failure to obtain or maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations could adversely affect KCS's business operations.. 15. Table of Contents. KCS's business is vulnerable to fluctuations in fuel costs and disruptions in fuel supplies.. KCS incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and these costs represent a significant portion of its transportation expenses. Significant price increases for fuel may have a material adverse effect on operating results. If KCS is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise, and the resulting impact on fuel prices could materially adversely affect KCS's consolidated financial statements.. KCSM currently meets the majority of its fuel requirements through purchases from PEMEX Transformación Industrial (\"PEMEX\"), the national oil company of Mexico, and other authorized fuel distributors of PEMEX fuel around the country. If PEMEX were to experience significant operational difficulties not quickly resolved, the KCSM operations could be materially adversely affected.. Weaknesses in the short and long-term debt markets could negatively impact the Company's access to capital.. Due to the significant capital expenditures required to operate and maintain a safe and efficient railroad, the Company regularly relies on debt markets for the issuance of long-term debt instruments, bank financing and commercial paper. Instability or disruptions of the capital markets, including debt markets, or the deterioration of the Company's financial condition due to internal or external factors, could restrict or prohibit access and could increase the cost of financing sources. A significant deterioration of the Company's financial condition could also reduce credit ratings to below investment grade, limiting its access to external sources of capital, and increasing the costs of short and long-term debt financing, and could have a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. KCS's business may be affected by market and regulatory responses to climate change.. KCS's operations may be adversely affected by restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust. Restrictions on emissions could also affect KCS's customers that use commodities that KCS transports to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities KCS transports, or manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. Significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities KCS transports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements. Government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain customers and their respective markets for certain commodities KCS transports in an unpredictable manner that could alter traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. Any of these factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could have a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. A majority of KCS's employees belong to labor unions. Strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect operations.. The Company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in the United States and Mexico. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 75% and 80% of KCSR and KCSM Servicios employees, respectively, were covered by labor contracts subject to collective bargaining. The Company may be subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor contracts or KCS's potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. In the United States, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond KCS's control. KCS may, therefore, be subject to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements. If the unionized workers in the United States or Mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown; if other employees were to become unionized or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, KCS could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. Although the U.S. Railway Labor Act imposes restrictions on the right of United States railway workers to strike, there is no law in Mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway workers in that country to strike.. 16. Table of Contents. KCS is dependent on certain key suppliers of core rail equipment.. KCS relies on a limited number of suppliers of core rail equipment (including locomotives, rolling stock equipment, rail and ties). The capital intensive nature and complexity of such equipment creates high barriers of entry for any potential new suppliers. If any of KCS's suppliers discontinue production or experience capacity or supply shortages, this could result in increased costs or difficulty in obtaining rail equipment and materials, which could have a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. The unavailability of qualified personnel could adversely affect KCS's operations.. Changes in demographics, training requirements and the unavailability of qualified personnel could negatively affect KCS's ability to meet demand for rail service. Unforeseen increases in demand for rail services may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact on KCS's operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on KCS's consolidated financial statements.. KCS's business may be affected by future acts of terrorism, war or other acts of violence or crime.. Terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the Company's chemical transportation activities, any government response thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect KCS's consolidated financial statements. These acts may also impact the Company's ability to raise capital or its future business opportunities. KCS's rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and damage to KCS's property. In recent years, there have been reported incidents of train-related robberies in Mexico, including incidents involving KCSM's trains and infrastructure. Other acts of violence or crime could also adversely affect the Company's business.. As a result, acts of terrorism or war or acts of crime or violence could result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues for KCS. In addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the applicable coverage currently maintained by KCS could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be adequate to cover losses or may not be available in the future."
