[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following important economic and market, strategic, operational, and legal and regulatory risk factors could adversely impact our business.  These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking and other statements that (a) we make in registration statements, periodic reports (including this report) and other filings with the SEC and from time to time in our news releases, annual reports and other written reports or communications, (b) we post on or make available through our websites and/or through other electronic channels, and (c) our personnel and representatives make orally from time to time.. Economic and Market Risks. Soft or negative economic or housing market conditions generally or in our served markets may materially and adversely affect our business and consolidated financial statements.. As in 2017, we expect future home sales activity and selling price appreciation (or depreciation) to vary in strength between markets and within submarkets based to a substantial degree on their specific economic and housing environments, which may also reflect national, state and/or regional factors.  These variations may be significant and unfavorable, and could be more pronounced and/or prolonged in our served markets due to changes in conditions that are outside of our control, including, but not limited to, the following:. • Employment levels and job and wage growth, particularly for individuals and households who make up our core first-time and first move-up homebuyer demographic groups.  If the recent upward trends in employment and income levels for these demographic groups weaken or reverse, a corresponding reduction in demand for homes could negatively impact our business, and the impact may be greater for us than for homebuilders that target more-experienced and/or higher-income homebuyers.. • Negative population growth, household formations or other demographic changes that can impair demand for housing.. • Diminished consumer confidence in general or specifically with respect to purchasing homes, or lack of consumer interest in purchasing a home compared to other housing alternatives due to location preferences, perceived affordability constraints or otherwise.. • Inflation, which could result in our production costs increasing at a rate or to a level that we cannot recover through the selling prices of our homes.  Inflation may also cause increases in mortgage loan interest rates, and in the interest rates we may need to accept to obtain external financing for our business.. • Shortages or rising prices of building materials and construction services, including independent contractor or outside supplier capacity constraints.  These conditions could increase our costs and/or extend our construction and home delivery schedules, and we may be unable to raise the selling prices of our homes to cover the impact of such cost increases and/or delays.. • Seasonality, which, as discussed above in the \"Competition, Seasonality, Delivery Mix and Other Factors\" section in this report, generally results in fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, with a significant proportion of our homes delivered and revenues generated in our third and fourth fiscal quarters.  While this pattern reflects when consumers have generally preferred to buy homes, we can provide no assurance that this historical seasonality will occur in 2018 or beyond, if at all.. • Civil unrest and acts of terrorism, and government responses to such acts, as well as inclement weather, natural disasters, and other environmental conditions can delay the delivery of our homes and/or increase our costs.. 10. If economic or housing conditions become more challenging generally or in our served markets, due to the factors listed above, whether individually or collectively, or otherwise, or home sales or selling prices do not continue to advance at the same pace as in recent years or decline, there would likely be a corresponding adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial statements, including, but not limited to, our net orders, the number of homes we deliver, our average selling prices, the revenues we generate, our housing gross profit margins and our ability to operate profitably, and the effect may be material.  In addition, adjustments to federal government economic, taxation and spending laws, policies or programs by the current administration and U.S. Congress may negatively impact the financial markets, consumer spending and/or the housing market, and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our operating results and consolidated financial statements.. Tight mortgage lending standards and/or interest rate increases could adversely affect the availability or affordability of mortgage loans for potential buyers of our homes and thereby reduce our net orders, homes delivered and revenues.  The poor performance of third-party mortgage lenders could delay our delivery of homes and recognition of revenues from those homes.. We depend on third-party lenders, including Stearns, our joint venture partner in KBHS, to provide mortgage loans to our homebuyers who need such financing to purchase our homes, and our dependence on such lenders is greater than for other homebuilders that operate a captive mortgage lender.  Homebuyers' ability to obtain financing largely depends on prevailing mortgage loan interest rates, the credit standards that mortgage lenders use and the availability of mortgage loan programs provided by federal government agencies (such as Federal Housing Administration (\"FHA\")- or Veterans Administration-insured mortgage loans), or government-sponsored enterprises (such as the Federal National Mortgage Association (also known as \"Fannie Mae\") or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (also known as \"Freddie Mac\")), which have been a critical source of liquidity for the mortgage finance industry and an important factor in marketing and selling many of our homes.  If mortgage loan interest rates increase, credit standards are tightened and/or the federal government reduces or terminates its mortgage loan programs, the affordability of and demand for homes, including our homes, would likely be adversely impacted, and the impact could be material to our business and consolidated financial statements.. Our homebuyers may obtain mortgage financing for their home purchases from any lender of their choice.  However, we can provide no assurance as to third-party lenders', including Stearns', ability or willingness to complete, in a timely fashion or at all, the mortgage loan originations they start for our homebuyers.  Such lenders' inability or unwillingness may result in mortgage loan funding issues that delay deliveries of our homes and/or cause cancellations, which could in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial statements.  In addition, if such third-party lenders, including Stearns, mishandle our homebuyers' personal financial information, including due to a data security breach of their systems, the negative impacts on our homebuyers, or negative publicity arising from any such incidents, could create, among other things, associated exposure to us with respect to claims for damages, regulatory penalties and/or reputational harm, and such exposure could be material and adverse to our business and consolidated financial statements.. The homebuilding industry and housing market are very competitive, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial statements.. We face significant competition in several areas of our business from other homebuilders, some of which have recently grown larger through mergers and acquisitions, sellers of existing homes, and other participants in the overall housing industry, including landlords and other rental housing operators.  These competitive conditions can result in, among other things, our selling and delivering fewer homes; our reducing the selling prices of our homes and/or offering or increasing sales incentives; our being unable to acquire desirable land that meets our investment return standards; and our being unable to obtain construction resources at acceptable prices or when needed to meet our production schedules.  These competitive conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial statements by decreasing our revenues and housing gross profit margins; impairing our ability to successfully implement our current strategies, initiatives or actions; increasing our costs; and/or diminishing growth in our business.. Strategic Risks. Our ability to execute on our primary strategies is inherently uncertain, and we may be unable to achieve our goals.. We can provide no assurance that our strategies, and any related initiatives or actions, will be successful, that they will generate growth, earnings or returns at any particular level or within any particular time frame, or that we will achieve in 2018 or beyond positive operational or financial results or results in any particular metric or measure equal to or better than our 2017 performance, or perform in any period as well as other homebuilders.  We also cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to maintain our strategies, and any related initiatives or actions, in 2018 and, due to unexpectedly favorable or unfavorable market conditions or other factors, we may determine that we need to adjust, refine or abandon all or portions of our strategies, initiatives or actions, though we cannot guarantee that any such changes will be successful.  The failure of any one or more of our present strategies, or any related initiatives or actions, or the failure of any adjustments that we may pursue or implement, would likely have an. 11. adverse effect on our ability to increase the value and profitability of our business; on our ability to operate our business in the ordinary course; on our overall liquidity; and on our consolidated financial statements, and the effect in each case could be material.. The success of our present strategies depends on the availability of developable land that meets our investment return standards.. The availability of developable land, particularly finished and partially finished lots, meeting our investment return standards depends on several factors, including, among other things, land availability in general, geographical/topographical/governmental constraints, land sellers' business relationships and competition for desirable property.  As discussed above in the \"Competition, Seasonality, Delivery Mix and Other Factors\" section in this report, since 2013 we have experienced heightened competition with homebuilders and other developers and investors for land, which, in addition to geographic, topographic and regulatory limitations, has caused the availability of desirable land in high-demand submarkets to become more constrained and costly.  In some instances, these other homebuilders, developers and investors (both domestic and international) have greater financial resources than us and/or use less stringent underwriting standards that enable them to bid more for land.. Should suitable land become less available to us, the number of homes we deliver could be reduced.  In addition, as noted above, the cost of attractive land could increase and adversely impact our housing gross profit margins and our ability to maintain ownership or control of a sufficient supply of land to meet our production goals.  A lack of available suitable land could also affect the success of our current strategies, and related initiatives, including our ability to grow our scale and share in our served markets; to expand our community count; to maintain or increase our revenues; to reduce our debt; and to maintain or improve our profitability in 2018 and beyond, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial statements.. Our business is concentrated in certain geographic markets and declines in one or more of our key served markets could materially affect our business and consolidated financial statements.. Home sales activity and selling prices in some of our key served markets have varied from time to time for market-specific and other reasons, including adverse weather, high levels of foreclosures, short sales and sales of lender-owned homes, and lack of affordability or economic contraction.  If home sales activity or selling prices decline in one or more of our key served markets, including California, Florida, Nevada or Texas, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and, as a result, our consolidated financial statements may be materially and adversely affected.. Adverse conditions in California, which makes up our West Coast homebuilding reporting segment, would have a particularly significant effect as our average selling price in this segment is the highest among all of our homebuilding reporting segments, a large percentage of our housing revenues is generated from this segment, and a significant proportion of our investments in land and land development have been made, and in 2018 are expected to be made, in that state.  In addition, some of the areas we serve in California have recently experienced extreme or exceptional drought conditions, and we can offer no assurance as to the conservation measures, including impact fees or penalties, that might be imposed by local water agencies/suppliers if such conditions recur that could limit, impair or delay our ability to sell and deliver homes; increase our production costs; or decrease the value of land we own or control, which may result in inventory impairment or land option contract abandonment charges, or both.  These impacts, individually or collectively, could adversely affect our overall business and consolidated financial statements, and the effect could be material.  Moreover, as California is one of the most highly regulated and litigious states in the country, our potential exposure to losses and expenses due to new laws, regulations or litigation may be greater than for other homebuilders with a less significant California presence.. Operational Risks. We may have difficulty in obtaining additional financing and/or may be restricted in accessing external capital, and to the extent we can access external financing, it may increase our capital costs or result in stockholder dilution.  Under certain circumstances, our obligations to repay our indebtedness may be accelerated and we may be unable to do so.. Our homebuilding operations and our present strategies require significant amounts of cash and/or the availability of external financing.  We have historically supported our operations with internally generated cash flows, public equity and debt issuances, land option contracts and other similar contracts and land seller financing.  In addition, we have entered into the Credit Facility and the LOC Facility and obtained performance bonds for certain ordinary course aspects of our operations.  While we believe we can meet our forecasted capital and operating requirements from our cash resources, expected future cash flows from our operations and anticipated available external financing sources, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to do so at all or without incurring substantially higher costs.. Capital market conditions in 2018 and beyond may significantly limit our ability to obtain additional external financing and/or maintain or, if necessary or appropriate, expand the Credit Facility's or the LOC Facility's capacity, or enter into additional or similar such facilities, or obtain performance bonds, in each case on acceptable terms or at all.  Volatility in the securities markets could impede our access to such markets or increase the dilution our stockholders would experience if we believe it is necessary. 12. or appropriate to issue additional equity securities.  As of the date of this report, our credit rating by Fitch Ratings is B+, with a positive outlook; Moody's Investor Services is B1, with a stable outlook; and Standard and Poor's Financial Services is BB-, with a stable outlook.  Downgrades of our credit rating by any of these firms may also make it more difficult and costly for us to access external financing sources.  The adverse effects of these conditions or events could be material to our business and our consolidated financial statements.. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other requirements imposed by the Credit Facility and the other instruments governing our indebtedness, the participating financial institutions and/or investors could terminate the Credit Facility, cause borrowings under the Credit Facility, if any, or the outstanding principal and unpaid interest under our senior notes, if applicable, to become immediately due and payable and/or could demand that we compensate them for waiving instances of noncompliance.  In addition, a default under the Credit Facility or under any series of our senior notes could in certain cases accelerate the maturity of all of our senior notes and restrict borrowings under the Credit Facility, as well as result in penalties and additional fees.. If any such covenant noncompliance or default occurs, it would likely have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, on our ability to operate our business in the ordinary course and on our consolidated financial statements.  In addition, we may need to curtail our investment activities and other uses of cash to maintain compliance with the covenants and other requirements under the Credit Facility and the other instruments governing our indebtedness, which could impair our ability to achieve our strategic growth goals.. As described in Note 13  -  Notes Payable in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report, if a change of control or if a fundamental change were to occur prior to the stated maturity date of our senior notes, we may be required to offer to purchase certain of our senior notes, plus accrued interest and unpaid interest, if any.  In such circumstances, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations, we may need to refinance and/or restructure with our lenders or other creditors all or a portion of our outstanding debt obligations on or before their maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all, or raise capital through equity or convertible security issuances that could significantly dilute existing stockholders' interests, and the impact of such circumstances on our liquidity and consolidated financial statements would be material and adverse.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness in relation to our tangible net worth and cash balance, which may restrict our ability to meet our operational and strategic growth goals.. The amount of our debt overall and relative to our total stockholders' equity and cash balance could have important consequences.  For example, it could limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service obligations or other business needs; limit our ability to maintain compliance with the Credit Facility's financial covenants, or to renew or expand the capacity of the Credit Facility; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from our operations to the payment of our debt service obligations and reduce our ability to use our cash flows for other purposes; impact our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; limit our ability to successfully implement our current strategies, initiatives or actions, in part due to competition from others with greater available liquidity; place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt than some of our competitors; and make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or in general economic or housing market conditions.. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations necessary to operate our business in the ordinary course will depend on our future performance.  As of the date of this report, our next scheduled maturity of senior notes is on June 15, 2018 with respect to $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7 1/4% senior notes due 2018 (\"7 1/4% Senior Notes due 2018\").. Reduced home sales may impair our ability to recoup development costs or force us to absorb additional costs.. Depending on the stage of development a land parcel is in when acquired, we may incur expenditures for developing land into a community, such as entitling and finishing lots and installing roads, sewers, water systems and other utilities; taxes and other levies related to ownership of the land; constructing model homes; and promotional marketing and overhead expenses to prepare the community to open for home sales.  If the rate at which we sell and deliver homes slows or falls, or if our opening of communities for home sales is delayed due to adjustments in our investment strategy, protracted governmental approval processes or utility service activations, or other reasons, we may incur additional costs, which would adversely affect our housing gross profit margins, and it will take a longer period of time for us to recover our costs.. The value of the land and housing inventory we own or control may fall significantly.. The value of the land and housing inventory we currently own or control depends on market conditions, including estimates of future demand for, and the revenues that can be generated from, this inventory.  The value of our inventory can vary considerably because there is often a significant amount of time between our acquiring control or taking ownership of land and the delivery of homes on that land, particularly undeveloped and/or unentitled land.  If, in 2018, the present economic or housing environment. 13. weakens, if particular markets or submarkets experience challenging or unfavorable changes in prevailing business conditions, including an increase in inflation, if we are unable to sell our land held for sale at its current estimated fair value, or if we elect to revise our strategy relating to certain land positions, we may need to record charges against our earnings for inventory impairments or land option contract abandonments, or both.  We may also decide to sell certain land at a loss and record a corresponding charge.  In addition, we may record charges against our earnings in connection with activating or selling certain land held for future development in connection with our current strategic initiatives.  Any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.. Homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant.. In the ordinary course of our homebuilding business, we are subject to home warranty and other construction defect claims.  We rely upon independent subcontractors to perform actual construction of our homes and in some cases, to select and obtain building materials.  We maintain, and require the majority of our independent subcontractors to maintain, general liability insurance (including construction defect and bodily injury coverage) and workers' compensation insurance.  We self-insure a portion of our overall risk through the use of a captive insurance subsidiary.  We also maintain certain other insurance policies.  However, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly, and, in our case, have relatively high self-insured retentions that limit coverage significantly.. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, including our ability to obtain recoveries for home warranty or other construction defect claims from responsible independent contractors and/or their or our insurers, our recorded warranty and other liabilities may not be adequate to address all of our expenditures associated with such claims in the future, and any such inadequacies could negatively affect our consolidated financial statements, including from potentially recording charges to adjust our warranty liability.  Home warranty and other construction defect issues may also generate negative publicity in various media outlets, including social media, websites, Internet blogs and newsletters, that could be detrimental to our reputation and adversely affect our efforts to sell homes.. We can provide no assurance that in 2018 we will not face additional home warranty and other construction defect claims and/or incur additional related repair and other costs, or experience negative publicity/reputational harm or be successful in obtaining any recoveries of related repair and other costs, and that any of these items  -  if they occur, or with respect to recoveries of related repair and other costs, fail to occur  -  could, individually or collectively, have a material and adverse impact on our business and consolidated financial statements.. We may not realize our significant deferred income tax assets.  In addition, our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code.. At November 30, 2017, we had deferred tax assets of $633.6 million, net of a $23.6 million valuation allowance.  Our ability to realize our deferred tax assets is based on the extent to which we generate future taxable income and on prevailing corporate income tax rates, and we cannot provide any assurance as to when and to what extent we will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize our deferred tax assets, whether in whole or in any part.  On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") was enacted into law.  While we are assessing the TCJA, and believe that its impact on our business may not be fully known for some time, its reduction of the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018, will result in our recording a one-time, non-cash charge of approximately $115 million to our provision for income taxes in the 2018 first quarter.  The charge is solely due to the accounting re-measurement of our deferred tax assets based on the lower income tax rate.  While we believe the TCJA will not impact the ability of our deferred tax assets, as re-measured, to reduce the amount of cash federal income taxes payable in 2018 and beyond, any future lowering of corporate income tax rates, and/or adjustment in the treatment of deferred tax assets, could impact the realization as well as the value of our deferred tax assets in our consolidated balance sheets, and these impacts could be material and adverse.  Further, we have filed our tax returns based on certain filing positions we believe are appropriate.  Should the applicable taxing authorities disagree with these positions, we may owe additional taxes.. The benefits of our deferred tax assets, including our net operating losses (\"NOLs\"), built-in losses and tax credits, would be reduced or potentially eliminated if we experienced an \"ownership change\" under Internal Revenue Code Section 382 (\"Section 382\").  We currently believe that an ownership change has not occurred.  However, if an ownership change were to occur, the annual limit Section 382 may impose on the amount of NOLs we could use to reduce our taxable income could result in a material amount of our NOLs expiring unused.  This would significantly impair the value of our net deferred tax assets and, as a result, have a material negative impact on our consolidated financial statements.. 14. Our ability to attract and retain talent is critical to the success of our business and a failure to do so may materially and adversely affect our performance.. Our officers and employees are important resources, and we see attracting and retaining a dedicated and talented team as crucial to our success.  If we are unable to continue to retain and attract qualified employees, or, alternatively, if we are required or believe it is appropriate to reduce our overhead expenses through significant personnel reductions or adjustments to compensation and benefits, our performance, our ability to achieve our strategic growth goals, our business and our consolidated financial statements could be materially and adversely affected.. Information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business.. We use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records.  Many of these resources are provided to us and/or maintained on our behalf by third-party service providers pursuant to agreements that specify to varying degrees certain security and service level standards.  Although we and our service providers employ what we believe are adequate security, disaster recovery and other preventative and corrective measures, and we provide regular employee awareness training of cybersecurity threats, our ability to conduct our business may be impaired if these resources, including our websites or e-mail system, are compromised, degraded, damaged or fail, whether due to a virus or other harmful circumstance, intentional penetration or disruption of our information technology resources by a third party, natural disaster, hardware or software corruption or failure or error or poor product or vendor/developer selection (including a failure of security controls incorporated into or applied to such hardware or software), telecommunications system failure, service provider error or failure, intentional or unintentional personnel actions (including the failure to follow our security protocols), or lost connectivity to our networked resources.. A significant and extended disruption could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, orders, deliveries of homes and revenues; result in the unintended and/or unauthorized public disclosure or the misappropriation of proprietary, personal identifying and confidential information; and require us to incur significant expenses to address and remediate or otherwise resolve these kinds of issues.  The release of confidential information may also lead to litigation or other proceedings against us by affected individuals, business partners and/or regulators, and the outcome of such proceedings, which could include losses, penalties, fines, injunctions, expenses and charges recorded against our earnings and cause us reputational harm, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial statements.  Depending on its nature, a data security breach may result in the unauthorized use or loss of our assets or financial resources, and such unauthorized use(s) or loss(es), which could be significant, may not be detected for some period of time.  In addition, the costs of maintaining adequate protection against data security threats, based on considerations of their evolution, pervasiveness and frequency and/or government-mandated standards or obligations regarding protective efforts, could be material to our consolidated financial statements in a particular period or over various periods.. Legal and Regulatory Risks. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive.. Prior to the TCJA's enactment, significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage loan interest costs and real estate taxes, generally were deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual's or household's federal, and in some cases state, taxable income, subject to various limitations.  The TCJA establishes new limits on the federal tax deductions individual taxpayers may take on mortgage loan interest payments and on state and local taxes, including real estate taxes.  The TCJA also raises the standard deduction.  These changes could reduce the perceived affordability of homeownership, and therefore the demand for homes, and/or have a moderating impact on home sales prices, in areas with relatively high housing prices and/or high state and local income taxes and real estate taxes, including in certain of our served markets in California.  As a result, some communities in our California operations could experience lower net orders and/or a tempering of average sales prices in future periods depending on how homebuyers react to the tax law changes under the TCJA.  In addition, if the federal government further changes, or a state government changes, its income tax laws by eliminating or substantially reducing the income tax benefits associated with homeownership, the after-tax cost of owning a home could measurably increase.  Any increases in personal income tax rates and/or tax deduction limits or restrictions enacted at the federal or state levels, including those enacted under the TCJA, could adversely impact demand for and/or selling prices of new homes, including our homes, and the effect on our consolidated financial statements could be adverse and material.. 15. We are subject to substantial legal and regulatory requirements regarding the development of land, the homebuilding process and the protection of the environment, which can cause us to suffer production delays and incur costs associated with compliance, and/or prohibit or restrict homebuilding activity in some regions or areas.  Our business is also subject to a number of local, state and federal laws, statutes, ordinances, rules, policies and other legal and regulatory requirements.  The impact of such requirements or our failure to comply with such requirements, individually or collectively, could be adverse and material to our consolidated financial statements.. Our homebuilding business is heavily regulated and subject to a significant amount of local, state and federal regulation including, among other things, zoning, building designs, worksite health and safety and home construction methods, as well as governmental taxes, fees and levies on the acquisition and development of land.  These regulations often provide broad discretion to government authorities that oversee these matters, which can result in unanticipated delays, restrictions, penalties for non-compliance and/or increases in the cost of a development project in particular markets.  We can provide no assurance that these regulations will not be interpreted or revised in ways that will require us to change our present strategies or operations, incur significant compliance costs or record charges against our earnings, have a negative impact on our reputation or our relationships with relevant agencies or government authorities, and/or restrict the manner in which we conduct our activities.  Any such actions or events, and associated costs and charges, could adversely and materially affect our consolidated financial statements.  Also, there have been significant cuts to government departments, subsidies, programs and public employee staffing levels, limiting economic growth and/or resulting in significant delays and/or higher costs in obtaining required inspections, permits or approvals with respect to the development of our communities.  These actions or events could adversely affect our ability to generate orders and revenues and/or to maintain or increase our housing gross profit margins, and the impact could be material and adverse to our consolidated financial statements.. Independent subcontractors perform all land development and home construction work at our communities.  Although we do not have the ability to control what these independent subcontractors pay their own employees, or their own subcontractors, or the work rules they impose on such personnel, federal and state governmental agencies, including the U.S. National Labor Relations Board, have sought, and may in the future seek, to hold contracting parties like us responsible for subcontractors' violations of wage and hour laws, or workers' compensation, collective bargaining and/or other employment-related obligations related to subcontractors' workforces.  Governmental agency determinations or attempts by others  to make us responsible for subcontractors' labor practices or obligations, whether under \"joint employer\" theories, specific state laws or regulations, such as under the California Labor Code, or otherwise, could create substantial adverse exposure for us in situations that are not within our control and could be material to our consolidated financial statements.. In addition, we are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the environment.  These requirements and/or evolving interpretations thereof, may cause production delays, may cause us to incur substantial costs, and can prohibit or restrict homebuilding activity in certain areas; any of which could also reduce the value of the affected inventory and require us to record significant impairment charges.  Environmental laws may also impose liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances whether or not the developer or owner of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of those substances.  The actual or potential presence of those substances on or nearby our properties may prevent us from selling our homes and we may also be liable, under applicable laws and regulations or lawsuits brought by private parties, for hazardous or toxic substances on land that we have sold in the past.. We are also involved in legal, arbitral or regulatory proceedings or investigations incidental to our business, the outcome or settlement of which could result in claims, losses, monetary damage awards, penalties, or other direct or indirect payments recorded against our earnings, or injunctions, consent decrees or other voluntary or involuntary restrictions or adjustments to our business operations or practices.  Any such adverse results could be beyond our expectations and/or accruals at particular points in time and material to our business and consolidated financial statements.  Unfavorable litigation, arbitral or administrative outcomes, as well as unfavorable investor, analyst or news reports related to our industry, company, personnel or operations, may also generate negative publicity in various media outlets, including social media, websites, Internet blogs and newsletters, that could be detrimental to our reputation or stock price, and adversely affect our efforts to sell homes.. The mortgage banking operations of KBHS are heavily regulated and subject to rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and quasi-governmental agencies.  If there is a finding that Stearns, which provides management oversight of KBHS's operations, or KBHS materially violated any applicable rules or regulations, or mortgage investors seek to have KBHS buy back mortgage loans or compensate them for losses incurred on mortgage loans KBHS has sold based on claims that it breached its limited representations or warranties, KBHS could face significant liabilities, which could exceed its reserves and cause us to recognize additional losses with respect to our equity interest in KBHS."
