[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.. This report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as \"expects,\" \"anticipates,\" \"believes,\" \"estimates\" or other similar expressions and future or conditional verbs such as \"will,\" \"should,\" \"would\" and \"could\" are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers of this report should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks throughout this report. The statements are representative only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.. All forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results may differ materially from those set forth in our forward-looking statements. We face risks that are inherent in the businesses and the market places in which we operate. While management believes these forward-looking statements are accurate and reasonable, uncertainties, risks and factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements.. Factors that may cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: (i) adverse economic conditions could impact our ability to realize operating plans if the demand for our products declines, and such conditions could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to continue to operate and could cause a write down of long-lived assets or goodwill; (ii) an increase in the cost or a decrease in the availability of our principal or single-sourced purchased raw materials; (iii) changes in the competitive environment; (iv) uncertainty of the timing of customer product qualifications in heavily regulated industries; (v) economic, political, or regulatory changes in the countries in which we operate; (vi) difficulties, delays, or unexpected costs in completing the restructuring plans; (vii) acquisitions and other strategic transactions expose us to a variety of risks; (viii) acquisition of TOKIN may not achieve all of the anticipated results; (ix) our business could be negatively impacted by increased regulatory scrutiny and litigation; (x) difficulties associated with retaining, attracting, and training effective employees and management; (xi) the need to develop innovative products to maintain customer relationships and offset potential price erosion in older products; (xii) exposure to claims alleging product defects; (xiii) the impact of laws and regulations that apply to our business, including those relating to environmental matters and cyber security; (xiv) the impact of international laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices; (xv) changes impacting international trade and corporate tax provisions related to the global manufacturing and sales of our products may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations; (xvi) volatility of financial and credit markets affecting our access to capital; (xvii) the need to reduce the total costs of our products to remain competitive; (xviii) potential limitation on the use of net operating losses to offset possible future taxable income; (xix) restrictions in our debt agreements that could limit our flexibility. 12. in operating our business; (xx) disruption to our information technology systems to function properly or control unauthorized access to our systems may cause business disruptions; (xxi) economic and demographic experience for pension and other post-retirement benefit plans could be less favorable than our assumptions; (xxii) fluctuation in distributor sales could adversely affect our results of operations, (xxiii) earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, (xxiv) volatility in our stock price.. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from those included, contemplated or implied by the forward-looking statements made in this report, and the reader should not consider the above list of factors to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties.. Adverse economic conditions could impact our ability to realize operating plans if the demand for our products declines; and such conditions could adversely affect our liquidity, ability to continue to operate and could cause the write down of long-lived assets or goodwill.. While our operating plans provide for cash generated from operations to be sufficient to cover our future operating requirements, many factors, including reduced demand for our products, currency exchange rate fluctuations, increased raw material costs, and other adverse market conditions we cannot predict could cause a shortfall in net cash generated from operations. As an example, the electronics industry is a cyclical industry with demand for capacitors reflecting the demand for products in the electronics market. Customers' requirements for our capacitors fluctuate as a result of changes in general economic activity and other factors affecting the demand for their end-products. During periods of increasing demand for their products, they typically seek to increase their inventory of our products to avoid production bottlenecks. When demand for their products peaks and begins to decline, they may rapidly decrease orders for our products while they use accumulated inventory. Business cycles vary somewhat in different geographical regions, such as Asia, and within customer industries. We are also vulnerable to general economic events beyond our control and our sales and profits may suffer in periods of weak demand.. Our ability to realize operating plans is also dependent upon meeting our payment obligations. If cash generated from operating, investing and financing activities is insufficient to pay for operating requirements and to cover interest payment obligations under debt instruments, planned operating and capital expenditures may need to be reduced.. Additionally, long-lived assets and intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of a long-lived asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. Also, goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. In the event the tests show the carrying value of certain long-lived assets is impaired, we would be required to take an impairment charge to earnings under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. However, such a charge would have no direct effect on our cash. If the economic conditions decline we could incur impairment charges in the future.. An increase in the cost or decrease in the availability of our principal or single-sourced purchased raw materials could adversely affect profitability.. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are tantalum powder, tantalum ore, palladium, aluminum, silver, copper, nickel and tin. These materials are considered commodities and are subject to price volatility. Additionally, any delays in obtaining raw materials for our products could hinder our ability to manufacture our products, negatively impacting our competitive position and our relationships with our customers.. Tantalum is mined principally in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mozambique and Rwanda. As a result of our tantalum vertical integration program which began in fiscal year 2012, we have reduced our exposure to price volatility and supply uncertainty in the tantalum supply chain. A majority of our tantalum needs are now met through our direct sourcing partners of conflict free tantalum ore or tantalum scrap reclaim, which is then processed into the intermediate product potassium heptafluorotantalate (commonly known as K-salt) at our own facility in Mexico or at third party locations, before final processing into tantalum powder at KBP. Price increases for tantalum ore, or for the remaining tantalum powder that we source from third parties, could impact our financial performance as we may not be able to pass all such price increases on to our customers.. Silver and aluminum have generally been available in sufficient quantities, and we believe there are a sufficient number of suppliers from which we can purchase our requirements. An increase in the price of silver and aluminum that we are unable to pass on to our customers, could, however, have an adverse effect on our profitability.. 13. Changes in the competitive environment could harm our business.. The capacitor business is competitive worldwide, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. Competition is based on factors such as product quality and reliability, availability, customer service, technical innovation, timely delivery and price. The industry has become increasingly consolidated and global in recent years, and our primary U.S. and non-U.S. competitors, some of which are larger than us, have significant financial resources. The greater financial resources of such competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Some competitors may also have the ability to use profits from other operations to subsidize losses sustained in their businesses with which we compete. Certain competitors may also develop product or service innovations that could put us at a disadvantage.. Uncertainty of the timing of customer product qualifications in heavily regulated industries could affect the timing of product revenues and profitability arising from these industries.. Our capacitors are incorporated into products used in diverse industries. Certain of these industries, such as military, aerospace and medical, are heavily regulated, with long and sometimes unpredictable product approval and qualification processes. Due to such regulatory compliance issues, there can be no assurances as to the timing of product revenues and profitability arising from our product development and sales efforts in these industries.. We manufacture many capacitors in Europe, Mexico and Asia and economic, political or regulatory changes in any of these regions could adversely affect our profitability.. Our international operations are subject to a number of special risks, in addition to the same risks as our domestic business. These risks include currency exchange rate fluctuations, differing protections of intellectual property, trade barriers, labor unrest, exchange controls, regional economic uncertainty, differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation, risk of governmental expropriation, domestic and foreign customs and tariffs, current and changing regulatory regimes, differences in the availability and terms of financing, political instability and potential increases in taxes. These factors could impact our production capability or adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. We may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs in completing our restructuring plan and may not realize all of the expected benefits from our restructuring plan.. During fiscal year 2018, our restructuring plans focused on making the Company more competitive by relocating production to lower cost locations and eliminating unnecessary costs. Restructuring plans which include personnel reduction costs initiated in fiscal year 2018 are summarized below:. • The Solid Capacitors segment is streamlining its vertical integration strategy by relocating its tantalum powder facility equipment from Carson City, Nevada to its existing Matamoros, Mexico plant. Severance charges and equipment relocation costs are expected to be recognized over the next seven quarters.. • The Film and Electrolytic segment had a voluntary reduction in force in its Italian operations.. We may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of the restructuring plan without encountering difficulties, which may include complications in the transfer of production knowledge, loss of key employees and/or customers, the disruption of ongoing business, possible inconsistencies in standards, controls and procedures and potential difficulty in meeting customer demand in the event the market dramatically improves. We are party to collective bargaining agreements in certain jurisdictions in which we operate which could potentially prevent or delay execution of parts of our restructuring plan.. Acquisitions and other strategic transactions expose us to a variety of operational and financial risks.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions depends, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the acquired companies with our own. Our management devotes significant attention and resources to these efforts, which may disrupt the business of each of the companies and, if executed ineffectively, could preclude realization of the full benefits we expect. Failure to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the operations of the acquired company. In addition, the efforts required to realize the benefits of our acquisitions may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, the diversion of management's attention, and may cause our stock price to decline.. Additionally, we may finance acquisitions or future payments with cash from operations, additional indebtedness and/or the issuance of additional securities, any of which may impair the operation of our business or present additional risks, such as reduced liquidity or increased interest expense. Such acquisition financing could result in a decrease of our ratio of earnings to fixed charges. We may also seek to restructure our business in the future by disposing of certain of our assets, which may harm our future operating results, divert significant managerial attention from our operations and/or require us to accept non-cash consideration, the market value of which may fluctuate.. 14. Failure to implement our acquisition strategy, including successfully integrating acquired businesses, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not realize the anticipated cross-selling synergies and revenue expansion expected to result from the acquisition of TOKIN and we may experience difficulties in integrating TOKIN's business which may adversely affect our financial performance.. There can be no assurance we will realize the anticipated operating synergies, tax benefits and revenue expansion from the acquisition of TOKIN or we will not experience difficulties in integrating the operations of TOKIN with our operations. For example, the integration of TOKIN will require the experience and expertise of certain of our key managers and key managers of TOKIN. There can be no assurance, however, that these managers will remain with us for the time period necessary to successfully integrate the operations of TOKIN with our operations. In addition, the acquisition of TOKIN may present significant challenges for our management due to the increased time and resources required to properly integrate our management, employees, information systems, accounting controls, personnel and administrative functions with those of TOKIN and to manage the combined company on a going forward basis. There can be no assurance we will be able to successfully integrate and streamline overlapping functions or, if successfully accomplished, that such integration will not be more costly to accomplish than presently contemplated or that we will not encounter difficulties in managing the combined company due to its increased size and scope. Furthermore, expansions or acquisitions into new geographic markets and services may require us to comply with new and unfamiliar legal and regulatory requirements, which could impose substantial obligations on us and our management, cause us to expend additional time and resources and increase our exposure to penalties or fines for non-compliance with such requirements.. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that, as a combined company, we will continue to maintain all of the supplier and customer relationships we and TOKIN maintained as separate companies. As a combined company, we may encounter difficulties managing relationships with our suppliers and our customers due to our increased size and scope and to the increased number of relationships we will have with suppliers and customers.. We are currently subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and litigation that may negatively impact our business.. The growth of our Company and our expansion into a variety of new products expose us to a variety of new regulatory issues, and we have experienced increased regulatory scrutiny as we have grown. We are subject to various federal, foreign and state laws, including antitrust laws, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. Furthermore, as a result of our acquisition of TOKIN, we assumed all liabilities assessed against TOKIN that may arise as a result of litigation to which TOKIN is a party. Beginning in March 2014, TOKIN and certain of its subsidiaries have received inquiries, requests for information and other communications from government authorities in China, the United States, the European Commission, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and Brazil concerning alleged anti-competitive activities within the capacitor industry, and TOKIN has subsequently received significant fines from the United States Department of Justice, the European Union and the Taiwan Fair Trade Commission arising out of their respective investigations. Given our leading position within several segments of the capacitor industry and our acquisition of TOKIN on April 19, 2017, these investigations have exposed us to civil litigation costs and could interfere with our ability to meet certain business objectives. As of March 31, 2018, TOKIN's accrual for antitrust and civil litigation totaled $76.7 million. This amount includes the best estimate of losses which may result from the ongoing antitrust investigations, civil litigation and claims. However, the actual outcomes could differ from what has been accrued.. Various purported antitrust class actions as described in \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings,\" have been filed in United States district courts and Canada alleging collusion and restraint of trade in capacitors by the named defendants, including KEMET Corporation, KEC and TOKIN.. Except for the TOKIN accrual described above, the Company has not recorded any accrual concerning these antitrust class action suits.. The impact of these and other investigations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations.. 15. If we are unable to attract, train or retain key employees, management or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and certain other employees, many of whom have many years of experience with us and would be extremely difficult to replace. We must also attract and retain experienced and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining these people. If we lost the services of our executive officers or our other highly qualified and experienced employees or cannot attract and retain other qualified personnel, our business could suffer through less effective management due to loss of accumulated knowledge of our business or through less successful products due to a reduced ability to design, manufacture and market our products.. We must continue to develop innovative products to maintain relationships with our customers and to offset potential price erosion in older products.. While most of the fundamental technologies used in the passive components industry have been available for a long time, the market is nonetheless characterized by rapid changes in product designs and technological advances allowing for better performance, smaller size and/or lower cost. New applications are frequently found for existing technologies, and new technologies occasionally replace existing technologies for some applications or open up new business opportunities in other areas of application. We believe successful innovation is critical for maintaining profitability in order to offset potential erosion of selling prices for existing products and to ensure the flow of new products and robust manufacturing processes that will keep us at the forefront of our customers' product designs. Non-customized commodity products are especially vulnerable to price pressure, but customized products have also experienced price pressure in recent years. Developing and marketing new products requires start-up costs that may not be recouped if these products or production techniques are not successful. There are numerous risks inherent in product development, including the risks we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. If this occurs, we could lose customers and experience adverse effects on our results of operations.. We may be exposed to claims alleging product defects.. Our business exposes us to claims alleging product defects or nonconformance with product specifications. We may be held liable for, or incur costs related to, such claims if any of our products, or products in which our products are incorporated, are found to have caused end market product application failures, product recalls, property damage or personal injury. Provisions in our customer and distributor agreements are designed to limit our exposure to potential material product defect claims, including warranty, indemnification, waiver and limitation of liability provisions, but such provisions may not be effective under the laws of some jurisdictions. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product defect claims, we may incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, defect claims could entail substantial expense and require the time and attention of key management personnel.. Our insurance program may not be adequate to cover all liabilities arising out of product defect claims and, at any time, insurance coverage may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If liability coverage is insufficient, a product defect claim could result in liability to us, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Even if we have adequate insurance coverage, product defect claims or recalls could result in negative publicity or force us to devote significant time and attention to those matters.. Various laws and regulations that apply to our business, including those relating to conflict minerals and environmental matters, could limit our ability to operate as we are currently and could result in additional costs.. We are subject to various laws and regulations of national, state and local authorities in the countries in which we operate regarding a wide variety of matters, including conflict minerals, environmental, employment, land use, antitrust, and others that affect the day-to-day operations of our business. The liabilities and requirements associated with the laws and regulations that affect us may be costly and time-consuming. There can be no assurance we have been or will be at all times in compliance with such applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting our operations. If we are pursued for sanctions, costs or liabilities in respect of these matters, our operations and, as a result, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected.. The SEC requires issuers for whom tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by such person to disclose annually whether any of those minerals originated in the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. As defined by the SEC, tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold are commonly referred to as \"conflict minerals\" or \"3TG\". If an issuer's conflict minerals originated in those countries, the rule requires the issuer to submit a report to the Commission that includes a description of the measures it took to exercise due diligence on the conflict minerals' source and chain of custody. We use tantalum, tin and, to a lesser degree, other of the. 16. 3TG minerals in our production processes and in our products. We have exercised due diligence on the source and chain of custody during the reporting period and, as required under the rule, have disclosed a description of these measures and certain of our findings in a special disclosure on Form SD. Disclosure in accordance with the rule may cause changes to the pricing of 3TG minerals, which could adversely affect our profitability.  In addition, it is possible some of our disclosures pursuant to the rule related to our inquiries and supply chain custody diligence could cause reputational harm and cause the company to lose customers or sales.. In addition, we are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state and local, as well as foreign, environmental laws and regulations relating, among other things, to wastewater discharge, air emissions, handling of hazardous materials, disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. We use a number of chemicals or similar substances and generate waste that are considered hazardous. We are required to hold environmental permits to conduct many of our operations. Violations of environmental laws and regulations could result in substantial fines, penalties, and other sanctions. Changes in environmental laws or regulations (or in their enforcement) affecting or limiting, for example, our chemical uses, certain of our manufacturing processes, or our disposal practices, could restrict our ability to operate as we are currently operating or impose additional costs. In addition, we may experience releases of certain chemicals or discover existing contamination, which could cause us to incur material cleanup costs or other damages.. Our international sales and operations are subject to applicable laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations.. We must comply with all applicable export control laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. United States laws and regulations applicable to us include the Arms Export Control Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (\"ITAR\"), the Export Administration Regulations (\"EAR\") and the trade and trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the Office of the United States Trade Representative (\"OFTR\") and the United States Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\"). The import and export of our products from each of our United States and international manufacturing facilities and distribution hubs are subject to international trade agreements, the modification or repeal of which could impact our business. We must comply with the requirements of OFTR and non-U.S. trade representative offices in order to benefit from existing trade agreements. EAR restricts the export of dual-use products and technical data to certain countries, while ITAR restricts the export of defense products, technical data and defense services. The U.S. government agencies responsible for administering EAR and ITAR have significant discretion in the interpretation and enforcement of these regulations. We also cannot provide services to certain countries subject to United States trade sanctions unless we first obtain the necessary authorizations from OFAC. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws that, generally, bar bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials.. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in significant additional sanctions including fines, more onerous compliance requirements, more extensive debarments from export privileges, loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of our international business and criminal penalties and may harm our ability to enter contracts with customers who have contracts with the U.S. government. A violation of the laws or the regulations enumerated above could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes impacting international trade and corporate tax provisions related to the global manufacturing and sales of our products may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. A significant portion of our business activities are conducted in foreign countries, including Mexico and China. Our business benefits from free trade agreements such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\") and we also rely on various U.S. corporate tax provisions related to international commerce as we build, market and sell our products globally. Changes in trade treaties and corporate tax policy could impact U.S. trade relations with other countries such as Mexico, and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Volatility of financial and credit markets could affect our access to capital.. Uncertainty in the global financial and credit markets could impact our ability to implement new financial arrangements or to modify our existing financial arrangements. An inability to obtain new financing or to further modify existing financing could adversely impact the execution of our restructuring plans and delay the realization of the expected cost reductions. Our ability to generate adequate liquidity will depend on our ability to execute our operating plans and to manage costs in light of developing economic conditions. An unanticipated decrease in sales, or other factors that would cause the actual outcome of our plans to differ from expectations, could create a shortfall in cash available to fund our liquidity needs. Being unable to access new capital, experiencing a shortfall in cash from operations to fund our liquidity needs and the failure to implement an initiative to offset the shortfall in cash would likely have a material adverse effect on our business.. 17. We must consistently reduce the total costs of our products to remain competitive.. Our industry is intensely competitive and prices for existing commodity products tend to decrease steadily over their life cycle. There is substantial and continuing pressure from customers to reduce the total cost of capacitors. To remain competitive, we must achieve continuous cost reductions through process and product improvements.. We must also be in a position to minimize our customers' shipping and inventory financing costs and to meet their other goals for rationalization of supply and production. Our growth and the profit margins of our products will suffer if our competitors are more successful in reducing the total cost to customers of their products than we are. We must also continue to introduce new products that offer performance advantages over our existing products and can thereby achieve premium prices, offsetting the price declines in our more mature products.. Our use of net operating losses to offset possible future taxable income could be limited by ownership changes.. In addition to the general limitations on the carryback and carryforward of net operating losses under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\"), Section 382 of the Code imposes further limitations on the utilization of net operating losses by a corporation following ownership changes which result in more than a 50 percentage point change in ownership of a corporation within a three-year period. If Section 382 applies, the post-ownership change utilization of our net operating losses may be subject to limitation for federal income tax purposes related to regular and alternative minimum tax. The application of Section 382 of the Code now or in the future could limit a substantial part of our future utilization of available net operating losses. Such limitation could require us to pay substantial additional income taxes and adversely affect our liquidity and financial position.. We do not believe we have experienced an ownership change to date. However, the Section 382 rules are complex and there is no assurance our view is correct. For example, the issuance of a warrant (the \"Platinum Warrant\") in May 2009 to K Financing, LLC (\"K Financing\"), in connection with the entry into a credit facility (the \"Platinum Credit Facility\") with K Financing, may be deemed to have resulted in an \"ownership change\" for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. If such an ownership change is deemed to have occurred, the amount of our post-ownership change taxable income that could be offset by our pre-ownership change net operating loss carryforwards would be severely limited. While we believe the issuance of the Platinum Warrant did not result in an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Code, there is no assurance our view will be unchallenged.. Even if we have not experienced an ownership change to date, we could experience an ownership change in the near future if there are certain significant purchases of our common stock or other events outside our control.. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that could limit our flexibility in operating our business.. Our debt agreements contain various covenants that, subject to exceptions, may limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; create liens on assets; make capital expenditures; engage in mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; sell assets (including pursuant to sale leaseback transactions); pay dividends and distributions on or repurchase capital stock; make investments (including acquisitions), loans, or advances; prepay certain junior indebtedness; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; enter into restrictive agreements; amend material agreements governing certain junior indebtedness; and change lines of business. The agreement governing our revolving credit facility also includes a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant that we must satisfy if an event of default occurs or in the event we do not meet certain excess availability requirements under our revolving credit facility. Our ability to comply with this covenant is dependent on our future performance, which may be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control.. If our information technology systems fail to function properly it may cause business disruptions.. As a global company we depend on our information technology systems to support our business. Any inability to successfully manage the procurement, development, implementation, execution or maintenance of our information systems, including matters related to system and data security, reliability, compliance or performance could have an adverse effect on our business including our results of operation and timeliness of financial reporting.. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store sensitive data and information, including our proprietary and regulated business information, as well as personally identifiable information about our employees, in addition to other information upon which our business processes rely. Our information systems, like those of other companies, are susceptible to malicious damage, intrusions and outages due to, among other events, viruses, breaches of security, natural disasters, power loss or telecommunications failures. We have taken steps to maintain adequate data security and address these risks and uncertainties by implementing security technologies, internal controls, network and data center resiliency and recovery processes. The Company is continuously working to install new, and upgrade its existing, information technology systems and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks to ensure that the Company is protected,. 18. to the greatest extent possible, against cyber risks and security breaches. However, any operational failure could lead to the loss or disclosure of confidential and other important information which could have the following implications: loss of intellectual property, significant remediation costs, disruption to key business operations and diversion of management's attention and key informational technology resources.. If economic and demographic experience for pension and other post-retirement benefit plans are less favorable than our assumptions (e.g., discount rates or return on investments), then it may affect our financial condition and results. of operations.. The measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. We use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, return on investments on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g. mortality and retirement rates). To the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, significant decreases in market interest rates could lead to increases in annual pension expense. Further, decreases in the value of plan assets could lead to an increased use of cash for plan contributions. For discussion of our assumptions, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies\" in Item 7 and Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.. Sales to distribution channel customers may fluctuate and adversely affect our results of operations.. From time-to-time, if end customer demand decreases, our sales to distributors also decrease while the distributors reduce their inventory levels. In addition, a single customer, a distributor, accounted for over 10% of our net sales in fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016. If our relationship with this customer were to terminate, we would need to determine alternative means of delivering our products to the end-customers served by it.. Earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Several of our facilities in Japan are located in regions that could be subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our production facilities located in Japan are in areas with above average seismic activity and some have been affected by other natural disasters such as tsunami. If any of our facilities in Japan or elsewhere were to experience a catastrophic earthquake or other natural disaster, such event could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments, and revenue, and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility or facilities. While KEMET has property insurance to partially reimburse it for losses caused by windstorm and earth movement, such insurance would not cover all possible losses. In addition, our existing disaster recovery and business continuity plans (including those relating to our information technology systems) may not be fully responsive to, or minimize losses associated with, catastrophic events.. Our stock price can be volatile.. The market price for our common stock has been volatile historically. Our stock price may be significantly affected by factors including those described elsewhere in \"Part 1, Item 1A. Risk Factors,\" as well as the following:. • general market and economic conditions;. • quarterly fluctuations in our operating results compared to market expectations;. • investors' perceptions of the electronic component industry;. • changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts;. • the composition of our stockholders, particularly the presence of \"short sellers\" trading our stock; and. • a decline in our credit rating."
