[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our results of operations and financial condition can be adversely affected by numerous risks. You should carefully consider the risk factors detailed below in conjunction with the other information contained in this report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and future prospects could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Business. The success of our business is significantly related to general economic conditions and the real estate industry, and, accordingly, our business could be harmed by an economic slowdown and downturn in real estate asset values, property sales and leasing activities.. Our business is closely tied to general economic conditions in the real estate industry. As a result, our economic performance, the value of our real estate and real estate secured notes, and our ability to implement our business strategies may be significantly and adversely affected by changes in national and local economic conditions. The condition of the real estate markets in which we operate is cyclical and depends on the condition of the economy in the United States, United Kingdom, Ireland, and to a lesser extent, Spain, Italy and Japan as a whole and to the perceptions of investors of the overall economic outlook. Rising interest rates, declining employment levels, declining demand for real estate, declining real estate values, periods of general economic slowdown, or recession or the perception that any of these events may occur have negatively impacted the real estate market in the past and may in the future negatively impact our operating performance. In addition, the economic condition of each local market where we operate may depend on one or more key industries within that market, which, in turn, makes our business sensitive to the performance of those industries.. We have only a limited ability to change our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. Certain significant expenditures, such as debt service costs, real estate taxes, and operating and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when market conditions are poor. These factors impede us from responding quickly to changes in the performance of our. 10. Table of Contents. investments and could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced in past years, and expect in the future to be negatively impacted by, periods of economic slowdown or recession, and corresponding declines in the demand for real estate and related services, within the markets in which we operate. Previous recessions and downturns in the real estate market have resulted in and may result in:. • a general decline in rents due to defaulting tenants or less favorable terms for renewed or new leases;. • a decline in actual and projected sale prices of our properties, resulting in lower returns on the properties in which we have invested;. • higher interest rates, higher loan costs, less desirable loan terms and a reduction in the availability of mortgage loans, all of which could increase costs and limit our ability to acquire additional real estate assets; and. • a decrease in the availability of lines of credit and the public equity and debt markets and other sources of capital used to purchase real estate investments and distressed notes.. If the economic and market conditions that prevailed in 2008 and 2009 were to return, our business performance and profitability could deteriorate. If this were to occur, we could fail to comply with certain financial covenants in our unsecured revolving credit facilities, which would force us to seek an amendment with our lenders. We may be unable to obtain any necessary waivers or amendments on satisfactory terms, if at all, which could result in the principal and interest of the debt to become immediately due.  In addition, in an extreme deterioration of our business, we could have insufficient liquidity to meet our debt service obligations when they come due in future years.. Adverse developments in the credit markets may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The credit markets may experience significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions.  These circumstances may materially impact liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and, in some cases, result in the unavailability of financing, even for companies that are otherwise qualified to obtain financing.  Continued volatility and uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing for our capital needs.  Additionally, due to this uncertainty, we may be unable to refinance or extend our existing debt, or the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt.  A prolonged downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing and may require us to adjust our business plan.  These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the incurrence of additional secured or unsecured debt, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Disruptions in the credit markets may also adversely affect our business of providing advisory services to owners, investors and occupiers of real estate in connection with the leasing, disposition and acquisition of property. If our clients are unable to procure credit on favorable terms, there may be fewer completed leasing transactions, dispositions and acquisitions of property. In addition, if purchasers of real estate are not able to procure favorable financing, resulting in the lack of disposition opportunities for our funds and projects, our services businesses will generate lower incentive fees and we may also experience losses of co-invested equity capital if the disruption causes a permanent decline in the value of investments made.. We could lose part or all of our investments in real estate assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. There is the inherent possibility in all of our real estate investments that we could lose all or part of our investment. Real estate investments are generally illiquid, which may affect our ability to change our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions. Moreover, we may not be able to unilaterally decide the timing of the disposition of an investment, and as a result, we may not control when and whether any gain will be realized or loss avoided. The value of our investments can also be diminished by:. • civil unrest, acts of war and terrorism and acts of God, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters (which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses);. • the impact of present or future legislation in the United States, United Kingdom, Ireland, and to a lesser extent, Spain, Italy and Japan (including environmental regulation, changes in laws concerning foreign ownership of property, changes in tax rates, changes in zoning laws and laws requiring upgrades to accommodate disabled persons) and the cost of compliance with these types of legislation; and. • liabilities relating to claims, to the extent insurance is not available or is inadequate.. We may be unsuccessful in renovating the properties we acquire, resulting in investment losses.. 11. Table of Contents. Part of our investment strategy is to locate and acquire real estate assets that we believe are undervalued and to improve them to increase their resale value. Acquiring properties that are not yet fully developed or in need of substantial renovation or redevelopment entails several risks, particularly the risk that we overestimate the value of the property or that the cost or time to complete the renovation or redevelopment will exceed the budgeted amount. Such delays or cost overruns may arise from:. • shortages of materials or skilled labor;. • a change in the scope of the original project;. • difficulty in obtaining necessary zoning, land-use, environmental, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations;. • the discovery of structural or other latent defects in the property after we acquire the property; and. • delays in obtaining tenants.. Any failure to complete a redevelopment project in a timely manner and within budget or to sell or lease the project after completion could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operation and financial condition.. Our significant operations in the United Kingdom and Ireland and to a lesser extent, Spain, Italy and Japan expose our business to risks inherent in conducting business in foreign markets.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 61% of our revenues were sourced from our foreign operations in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Spain, Italy and Japan, 90% of which was sourced from our operations in the United Kingdom and Ireland.  Accordingly, our firm-wide results of operations depend significantly on our foreign operations.  Conducting business abroad carries significant risks, including:. • restrictions and problems relating to the repatriation of profits;. • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations;. • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws;. • laws restricting foreign companies from conducting business;. • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;. • the impact of different business cycles and economic instability;. • political instability and civil unrest;. • greater difficulty in perfecting our security interests, collecting accounts receivable, foreclosing on secured assets and protecting our interests as a creditor in bankruptcies in certain geographic regions;. • potentially adverse tax consequences;. • share ownership restrictions on foreign operations;. • tariff regimes of the countries in which we do business; and. • geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences between personnel in different areas of the world.. The Irish Finance Act 2016 introduced certain amendments to Irish tax law that could have an adverse effect on the cashflow from our consolidated Irish real estate assets.. We have invested in Irish real estate through a number of Irish entities that were previously not subject to Irish withholding tax on income or gains.  The Irish Finance Act 2016 (the \"Finance Act\") that was passed in late 2016, and came into effect on January 1, 2017, introduced certain amendments to the tax treatment of entities that hold Irish real estate assets.  In particular, the Finance Act introduced a new 20% withholding tax applicable to distributions of profits from certain Irish entities, which would capture the vehicles that we invest through in Ireland.  The application of such withholding tax to distributions out of our Irish investments reduces the cashflows from some or all of our investments in Ireland, and this may have an adverse effect on our financial performance and business prospects.. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. Although we are headquartered in the United States, we have worldwide operations and significant business operations in Europe.  As of December 31, 2017, approximately 49% of our consolidated investment account represented investments in European properties or assets, 29% of which represents investments in the United Kingdom.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union in a national referendum.  The referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years after the government of the United Kingdom formally initiates a withdrawal process.  Nevertheless, the referendum. 12. Table of Contents. has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union, and has given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider withdrawal.. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and could significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets.  Asset valuations, currency exchange rates and credit ratings may be especially subject to increased market volatility, which may harm our financial position and results of operations.  For example, downward pressure on the value of foreign exchange rates could depress our reported earnings from European operations, which are presented on our financial statements in U.S. dollars.  Asset valuation reductions could result in write-downs of our consolidated European assets and reduced proceeds from asset sales.  In addition, any negative impact on European financial markets could harm our ability to raise capital efficiently in those markets when needed to execute our acquisition and value-add business plans, which would in turn adversely affect our reported results of operations.. The developments resulting from the vote and a withdrawal from the European Union could have a particularly adverse effect on the real estate market in the United Kingdom and surrounding areas, where a significant portion of our consolidated real estate investments are located.  Deteriorating economic conditions could depress the demand for real estate space, which, in turn, could increase vacancies and depress lease rates, leading to a further reduction in real estate property values.  Any of these events could cause our real estate investments in these areas to underperform, which would reduce our operating results and harm our business.  In particular, because the timing and negotiation of any withdrawal from the European Union is uncertain, we cannot predict when, if at all, any of these risks could materialize or the magnitude of their effect on our European operations.. Lack of clarity about future United Kingdom laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal, including financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and employment laws, could also harm our operations in Europe.  If the United Kingdom and the European Union are unable to negotiate acceptable withdrawal terms or if other European Union member states pursue withdrawal, economic conditions in Europe could deteriorate significantly.  Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Poor performance of our commingled funds would cause a decline in our revenue and results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to raise capital for future funds.. When any of our commingled closed-end funds perform poorly, our investment record suffers. As a result, our management and performance fees may be adversely affected. Moreover, we may experience losses on investments of our own capital as a result of poor investment performance, including investments in our own funds. If a fund performs poorly, we will receive little or no performance fees with regard to the fund and little income or possibly losses from our own principal investment in such fund. Furthermore, with respect to certain of our funds, if, as a result of poor performance or otherwise, a fund does not achieve total investment returns that exceed a specified investment return threshold over the life of the fund or other measurement period, we may be obligated to repay the amount by which performance fees that were previously distributed or paid to us exceeds amounts to which we were entitled. Poor performance of our funds could also make it more difficult for us to raise new capital. Investors in our closed-end funds may decline to invest in future closed-end funds we raise as a result of poor performance. Our fund investors and potential fund investors continually assess our funds' performance independently and relative to market benchmarks and our competitors, and our ability to raise capital for existing and future funds depends on our funds' performance. Accordingly, poor fund performance may deter future investment in our funds and thereby decrease the capital invested in our funds and, ultimately, our management fee income. Alternatively, in the face of poor fund performance, investors could demand lower fees or fee concessions for existing or future funds which would likewise decrease our revenue.. Our joint venture activities subject us to unique third-party risks, including risks that other participants may become bankrupt or take action contrary to our best interests.. We have used joint ventures for large real estate investments, real estate developments, and the purchase of loans secured by real estate. We plan to continue to acquire interests in additional limited and general partnerships, joint ventures and other enterprises, which we collectively refer to as joint ventures, formed to own or develop real property or interests in real property or note pools. We have acquired and may acquire non-controlling interests in joint ventures, and we may also acquire interests as a passive investor without rights to actively participate in the management of the joint ventures. Investments in joint ventures involve additional risks, including the possibility that the other participants may become bankrupt or have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, that we will not have the right or power to direct the management and policies of the joint ventures and that other participants may take action contrary to our instructions or requests and against our policies and objectives. Should a participant in a material joint venture investment act contrary to our interests, our business, results of operations and financial condition could significantly suffer. Moreover, we cannot be certain that we will continue these investments or that we can identify suitable joint venture partners and form new joint ventures in the future.. 13. Table of Contents. We purchase distressed loans and loan portfolios that may have a higher risk of default and delinquencies than newly originated loans, and, as a result, we may lose part or all of our investment in such loans and loan portfolios.. From time-to-time we purchase loans and loan portfolios that are unsecured or secured by real or personal property. These loans and loan portfolios in some cases may be non-performing or sub-performing and may be in default at the time of purchase. In general, the distressed loans and loan portfolios we acquire are speculative investments and have a greater than normal risk of future defaults and delinquencies as compared to newly originated loans. Returns on loan investments depend on the borrower's ability to make required payments or, in the event of default, our security interests, if any, and our ability to foreclose and liquidate whatever property that secures the loans and loan portfolios. We may be unable to collect on a defaulted loan or foreclose on security successfully or in a timely fashion. There may also be instances when we are able to acquire title to an underlying property and sell it but not make a profit on its investment.. If we are unable to identify, acquire and integrate suitable investment opportunities and acquisition targets, our future growth will be impeded.. Acquisitions and expansion have been, and will continue to be, a significant component of our growth strategy. While maintaining our existing business lines, we intend to continue to pursue a sustained growth strategy by increasing revenues from seeking selective investment and co-investment opportunities and pursuing strategic acquisitions. Our ability to manage our growth will require us to effectively integrate new acquisitions into our existing operations while managing development of principal properties. We expect that significant growth in several business lines occurring simultaneously will place substantial demands on our managerial, administrative, operational and financial resources. We may be unable to successfully manage all factors necessary for a successful expansion of our business. Moreover, our strategy of growth depends on the existence of and our ability to identify attractive investment opportunities and synergistic acquisition targets. The unavailability of suitable investment opportunities and acquisition targets, or our inability to find them, may result in a decline in business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our real estate development strategies may not be successful.. From time to time, we engage in development and redevelopment activities to the extent attractive projects become available. When we engage in development activities, we are subject to risks associated with those activities that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the market price of, our common stock, including, but not limited to:. • we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations;. • we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects, or obtain financing on favorable terms;. • construction costs of a project may exceed the original estimates or construction may not be concluded on schedule, making the project less profitable than originally estimated or not profitable at all (including the possibility of errors or omissions in the project's design, contract default, contractor or subcontractor default, performance bond surety default, the effects of local weather conditions, the possibility of local or national strikes and the possibility of shortages in materials, building supplies or energy and fuel for equipment);. • tenants which pre-lease space or contract with us for a build-to-suit project may default prior to occupying the project;. • upon completion of construction, we may not be able to obtain, or obtain on advantageous terms, permanent financing for activities that we financed through construction loans;. • we may not achieve sufficient occupancy levels and/or obtain sufficient rents to ensure the profitability of a completed project; and. • development projects in which we have invested may be abandoned and the related investment will be impaired.. Moreover, substantial renovation and development activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of management's time and attention, diverting their attention from our other operations.. We own real estate properties located in Hawaii, which subjects us to unique risks relating to, among other things, Hawaii's economic dependence on fluctuating tourism, the isolated location of Hawaii and the potential for natural disasters.. We conduct operations and own properties in Hawaii. Consequently, our business, results of operations and financial condition depend on and are affected by general trends in Hawaii's economy and real estate market. Hawaii's economy, although. 14. Table of Contents. it has significantly recovered, experienced a significant downturn in the most recent recession. Real estate market declines may negatively affect our ability to sell property at a profit. In addition, Hawaii's economy largely depends on tourism, which is subject to fluctuation. Hawaii historically has also been vulnerable to certain natural disaster risks, such as tsunamis, hurricanes and earthquakes, which could cause damage to properties owned by us or property values to decline in general. Hawaii's remote and isolated location also may create additional operational costs and expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our gross asset value for our Hawaiian investments is $162.5 million.. We may not be successful in competing with companies in the real estate investment and services industries, some of which may have substantially greater resources than we do.. Real estate investment and services businesses are highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and a broader global presence than we do. We compete with companies in the United States, United Kingdom, Ireland, and to a lesser extent, Spain, Italy and Japan, with respect to:. • purchasing real estate, as well as undeveloped land for our own account;. • acquiring secured and unsecured loans;. • selling commercial and residential properties on behalf of customers through brokerage and auction services;. • leasing and property management, including construction and engineering services;. Our services operations must compete with a growing number of national firms seeking to expand market share. We may be unable to compete effectively, maintain current fee levels or arrangements, purchase investment properties profitably or avoid increased competition.. Decreases in the performance of the properties we manage are likely to result in a decline in the amount of property management fees and leasing commissions we generate.. Our property management fees are generally structured as a percentage of the revenues generated by the properties that we manage. Similarly, our leasing commissions typically are based on the value of the lease commitments. As a result, our revenues are adversely affected by decreases in the performance of the properties we manage and declines in rental value. Property performance will depend upon, among other things, our ability to control operating expenses (some of which are beyond our control) and financial conditions generally and in the specific areas where properties are located and the condition of the real estate market generally. If the performance or rental values of the properties we manage decline, the management fees and leasing commissions we derive from such properties could be materially adversely affected.. Our reliance on third-parties to operate certain of our properties may harm our business.. In some instances, we rely on third party property managers and hotel operators to manage our properties. These third parties are directly responsible for the day-to-day operation of our properties with limited supervision by us, and they often have potentially significant decision-making authority with respect to those properties.  Our ability to direct and control how our properties are managed on a day-to-day basis may be limited because we will engage third-parties to perform this function.  Thus, the success of our business may depend in large part on the ability of our third-party property managers to manage the day-to-day operations, and any adversity experienced by our property managers could adversely impact the operation and profitability of our properties. These third-parties may fail to manage our properties effectively or in accordance with their agreements with us, may be negligent in their performance and may engage in criminal or fraudulent activity.  If any of these events occur, we could incur losses or face liabilities from the loss or injury to our property or to persons at our properties.  In addition, disputes may arise between us and these third-party managers and operators, and we may incur significant expenses to resolve those disputes or terminate the relevant agreement with these third parties and locate and engage competent and cost-effective service providers to operate and manage the relevant properties.  We are also parties to hotel management agreements under which unaffiliated third-party property managers manage our hotels.  If any of these events occur, our relationships with any franchisors may be damaged, we may be in breach of our franchise agreement, and we could incur liabilities resulting from loss or injury to our property or to persons at our properties.  In addition, from time to time, disputes may arise between us and our third party managers regarding their performance or compliance with the terms of the hotel management agreements, which in turn could adversely affect us.  If we are unable to resolve such disputes through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to terminate our management agreement, litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third party dispute resolution, the expense of which may be material and the outcome of which may harm our business, operating results or prospects.. 15. Table of Contents. Our leasing activities depend on various factors, including tenant occupancy and rental rates, which, if adversely affected, could cause our operating results to suffer.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to promptly find tenants for substantial amounts of vacant space at our properties, if rental rates on new or renewal leases are significantly lower than expected, or if reserves for costs of re-leasing prove inadequate.. Our ability to lease properties also depends on:. • the attractiveness of our properties to tenants;. • competition from other available space;. • our ability to provide adequate maintenance and obtain insurance and to pay increased operating expenses, which may not be passed through to tenants;. • the availability of capital to periodically renovate, repair and maintain the properties, as well as for other operating expenses; and. • the existence of potential tenants desiring to lease the properties.. Also, a significant portion of our property management business involves facilitating the leasing of commercial space. In certain areas of operation, there may be inadequate commercial space to meet demand, and there is a potential for a decline in the number of overall lease and brokerage transactions. In areas where the supply of commercial space exceeds demand, we may not be able to renew leases or obtain new tenants for our managed rental properties that we manage as leases expire.. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations applicable to us in our role as a real estate broker, property/facility manager or developer, we may incur financial penalties.. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations specific to the services we perform in our business, as well as laws of broader applicability, such as tax, securities and employment laws. Brokerage of real estate sales and leasing transactions and the provision of property management and valuation services require us to maintain applicable licenses in each U.S. state and certain foreign jurisdictions in which we perform these services. If we fail to maintain our licenses or conduct these activities without a license, or violate any of the regulations covering our licenses, we may be required to pay fines (including treble damages in certain states), return commissions received or have our licenses suspended or revoked.. As a licensed real estate broker, we and our licensed employees are subject to certain statutory due diligence, disclosure and standard-of-care obligations. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject us or our employees to litigation from parties who purchased, sold or leased properties that we brokered or managed. In addition, we may become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales claiming that we did not fulfill our statutory obligations as a broker.. We may become subject to claims for construction defects or other similar actions in connection with the performance of our property management services.. In our property management capacity, we hire and supervise third-party contractors to provide construction and engineering services for our properties. While our role is limited to that of a supervisor, we may be subject to claims for construction defects or other similar actions. Adverse outcomes of property management litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to potential environmental liability.. Under various foreign, federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the cleanup of hazardous or toxic substances and may be liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by governmental entities or third parties in connection with the contamination. Such laws typically impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances, even when the contaminants were associated with previous owners or operators. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to properly remediate those substances, may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to sell or rent the affected property or to borrow using the property as collateral. The presence of contamination at a property can impair the value of the property even if the contamination is migrating onto the property from an adjoining property. Additionally, the owner of a site may be subject to claims by parties who have no relation to the property based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site.. 16. Table of Contents. In connection with the direct or indirect ownership, operation, management and development of real properties, we may be considered an owner or operator of those properties or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances. Therefore, we may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs.. Certain foreign, federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances also govern the removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos-containing materials during construction, remodeling, renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose liability for the release of asbestos-containing materials, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injuries associated with asbestos-containing materials. We may be potentially liable for those costs for properties that we own. In the past, we have been required to remove asbestos from certain buildings that we own or manage. We may be required to remove asbestos from our buildings or incur other substantial costs of environmental remediation.. Before consummating the acquisition of a particular piece of real property, it is our policy to retain independent environmental consultants to conduct an environmental review of the real property, including performing a Phase I environmental review. These assessments have included, among other things, a visual inspection of the real properties and the surrounding area and a review of relevant federal, state and historical documents. It is possible that the assessments we commissioned do not reveal all environmental liabilities or that there are material environmental liabilities of which we are currently unaware. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability and the current environmental condition of our properties may be affected by tenants, by the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of those properties, or by unrelated third parties. Federal, state, local and foreign agencies or private plaintiffs may bring actions against us in the future, and those actions, if adversely resolved, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Rent control or rent stabilization legislation and other regulatory restrictions may limit our ability to increase rents and pass through new or increased operating costs to our tenants.. We presently expect to continue operating and acquiring properties in areas that have adopted laws and regulations imposing restrictions on the timing or amount of rent increases. Currently, California does not have state mandated rent control, but various municipalities within the state, including certain cities where our properties are located, have enacted rent control or rent stabilization legislation. Furthermore, enactment of similar regulations have been and are being considered in other jurisdictions where we hold investments.  Although, under current California law we are able to increase rents to market rates once a tenant vacates a rent-controlled or stabilized unit, increases in rental rates for renewing tenants are limited by such regulations. These laws and regulations can (i) limit our ability to charge market rents, increase rents, evict tenants or recover increases in our operating expenses, (ii) negatively impact our ability to attract higher-paying tenants, (iii) require us to expend money for reporting and compliance, and (iv) make it more difficult for us to dispose of properties in certain circumstances. Any failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines and/or other penalties.. We may incur unanticipated expenses relating to laws benefiting disabled persons.. The Americans with Disabilities Act, or the ADA, generally requires that public accommodations, such as hotels and office buildings, be accessible to disabled people. If our properties are not in compliance with the ADA, the U.S. federal government could fine us or private litigants could sue us for monetary damages. In addition, if we are required to make substantial alterations to one or more of our properties in order to comply with the ADA, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We may incur significant costs complying with laws, regulations and covenants that are applicable to our properties and operations.. The properties in our portfolio and our operations are subject to various covenants and federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulatory requirements, including permitting and licensing requirements. Such laws and regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers, may restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations at any time with respect to our properties, including prior to acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations of any of our existing properties. Among other things, these restrictions may relate to fire and safety, seismic, asbestos-cleanup or hazardous material abatement requirements. Existing laws and regulations may adversely affect us, the timing or cost of our future acquisitions or renovations may be uncertain, and additional regulations may be adopted that increase such delays or result in additional costs. Our failure to obtain required permits, licenses and zoning relief or to comply with applicable laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our property insurance coverage is limited, and any uninsured losses could cause us to lose part or all of our investment in our insured properties.. 17. Table of Contents. We carry commercial general liability coverage and umbrella coverage on all of our properties with limits of liability that we deem adequate and appropriate under the circumstances (certain policies subject to deductibles) to insure against liability claims and provide for the cost of legal defense. There are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses that either may be uninsurable or are not generally insured because it is not economically feasible to insure against those losses. Should any uninsured loss occur, we could lose our investment in, and anticipated revenues from, a property, and these losses could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Currently, we also insure some of our properties for loss caused by earthquakes in levels we deem appropriate and, where we believe necessary, for loss caused by flood. The occurrence of an earthquake, flood or other natural disaster may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business could be adversely affected by security breaches through cyber attacks, cyber intrusions or otherwise.. We face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization, and other significant disruptions of our information technology networks and related systems. These risks include operational interruption, private data exposure and damage to our relationship with our customers, among others. A security breach involving our networks and related systems could disrupt our operations in numerous ways that could ultimately have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. It is possible that our business, financial and other systems could be compromised, which might not be noticed for some period of time. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to mitigate our exposure to such risk, cybersecurity attacks are evolving and unpredictable. The occurrence of such an attack could lead to financial losses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Company. If we are unable to raise additional debt and equity capital, our growth prospects may suffer.. We depend on the capital markets to grow our balance sheet along with third-party equity and debt financings to acquire properties through our investment business, which is a key driver of future growth.  We currently intend to raise a significant amount of third-party equity and debt to acquire assets in the ordinary course of our business.  We depend on debt financing from a combination of seller financing, the assumption of existing loans, government agencies and financial institutions. We depend on equity financing from equity partners, which include public companies, pension funds, family offices, financial institutions, endowments and money managers. Our access to capital funding is uncertain. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms reasonably acceptable to us could jeopardize the future growth of our business.. The loss of one or more key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Our continued success depends to a significant degree on the efforts of our senior executives, particularly our chief executive officer, or CEO, who have each been essential to our business. The departure of all or any of our executives for whatever reason or the inability of all or any of them to continue to serve in their present capacities or our inability to attract and retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our executives have built highly regarded reputations in the real estate industry. Our executives attract business opportunities and assist both in negotiations with lenders and potential joint venture partners and in the representation of large and institutional clients. If we lost their services, our relationships with lenders, joint ventures and clients would diminish significantly.. In addition, certain of our officers have strong regional reputations, and they aid in attracting and identifying opportunities and negotiating for us and on behalf of our clients.  As we continue to grow, our success will largely depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all areas of business. We may be unable to continue to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to support or keep pace with our planned growth.. The loss of our CEO could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Our continued success is dependent to a significant degree upon the efforts of our CEO, who is essential to our business. The departure of our CEO for whatever reason or the inability of our CEO to continue to serve in his present capacity could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our CEO has built a highly regarded reputation in the real estate industry. Our CEO attracts business opportunities and assists both in negotiations with lenders and potential joint venture partners and in the representation of large and institutional clients. If we lost his services, our relationships with lenders, joint ventures and clients would diminish significantly.. 18. Table of Contents. Our revenues and earnings may be materially and adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates due to our international operations.. Our revenues from foreign operations have been primarily denominated in the local currency where the associated revenues were earned. Thus, we may experience significant fluctuations in revenues and earnings because of corresponding fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. To date, our foreign currency exposure has been limited to the Pound Sterling and the Euro.  Due to the constantly changing currency exposures to which we will be subject and the volatility of currency exchange rates, we may experience currency losses in the future, and we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on future operating results. Our management uses currency hedging instruments from time to time, including foreign currency forward contracts, purchased currency options (where applicable) and foreign currency borrowings. The economic risks associated with these hedging instruments include unexpected fluctuations in foreign currency rates, which could lead to hedging losses or the requirement to post collateral, along with unexpected changes in our underlying net asset position. Our hedging activities may not be effective.. In addition, our foreign operations may subject us to foreign income or other taxes, including at tax rates that exceed those of the United States.  Foreign tax laws may also subject any foreign earnings that we repatriate to dividend withholding tax requirements or other restrictions.  We may be unable to repatriate non-U.S. earnings in a tax efficient manner, and future new or amended foreign tax and other laws may impose additional restrictions on our ability to repatriate our foreign earnings.. Our results are subject to significant volatility from quarter to quarter due to the varied timing and magnitude of our strategic acquisitions and dispositions and other transactions.. We have experienced a fluctuation in our financial performance from quarter to quarter due in part to the significance of revenues from the sales of real estate and acquisition related gain on overall performance. The timing of purchases and sales of our real estate investments, transactions with our equity partners to take control of real estate or taking control of underlying real estate previously securing loans has varied, and will continue to vary, widely from quarter to quarter due to variability in market opportunities, changes in interest rates, and the overall demand for residential and commercial real estate, among other things. While these factors have contributed to our increased operating income and earnings in past years, we may be unable to continue to perform well due to significant variability in these factors.  Moreover, acquisition related gains are non-operating items that result in non-cash gains and do not result in net proceeds to us.  Transactions resulting in acquisition related gains have had a material positive impact on our net income and Adjusted EBITDA in recent periods, and to the extent we do not recognize similar gains in future periods our net income and Adjusted EBITDA could be adversely affected.  In addition, the timing and magnitude of brokerage commissions paid to us may vary widely from quarter to quarter depending on overall activity in the general real estate market and the nature of our brokerage assignments, among other things.. We have in the past incurred and may continue in the future to incur significant amounts of debt to finance acquisitions, which could negatively affect our cash flows and subject our properties or other assets to the risk of foreclosure.. We have historically financed new acquisitions with cash derived from secured and unsecured loans and lines of credit. For instance, we typically purchase real property with loans secured by a mortgage on the property acquired. We anticipate continuing this trend. We do not have a policy limiting the amount of debt that we may incur. Accordingly, our management and board of directors have discretion to increase the amount of our outstanding debt at any time. We could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service costs that could adversely affect our results of operations and increase the risk of default on debt. We may incur additional debt from time to time to finance strategic acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or for other purposes, subject to the restrictions contained in the documents governing our indebtedness. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage, including our ability to service our debt, would increase. If we are required to seek an amendment to our credit agreement, our debt service obligations may be substantially increased.. Some of our debt bears interest at variable rates. As a result, we are subject to fluctuating interest rates that may impact, adversely or otherwise, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risks that:. • cash flow may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest;. • existing indebtedness on our properties may not be refinanced and our leverage could increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions, placing us at a disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged;. • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the commercial real estate services industry;. 19. Table of Contents. • our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, results in foreclosure on substantially all of our assets; and. • the terms of available new financing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness.. If we are unable to satisfy the obligations owed to any lender with a lien on one of our properties, the lender could foreclose on the real property or other assets securing the loan and we would lose that property or asset. The loss of any property or asset to foreclosure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., rate our significant outstanding debt. These ratings and any downgrades thereof may impact our ability to borrow under any new agreements in the future, and could increase the interest rates of, and require more onerous terms for, any future borrowings, and could also cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our earnings may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to seek to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, which we may be unable to do, and our stock price may be adversely affected.. Our debt obligations impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and taking certain actions.. Our existing debt obligations impose, and future debt obligations may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • repay indebtedness (including our 5.875% senior notes due 2024) prior to stated maturities;. • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our stock or make other distributions;. • make acquisitions or investments;. • create or incur liens;. • transfer or sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies;. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates;. • sell stock in our subsidiaries;. • restrict dividends, distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries; and. • otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities.. In addition, our unsecured revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our 5.875% senior notes and the KWE notes require us to maintain compliance with specified financial covenants, including maximum balance sheet leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with these covenants. These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness.  In addition, a default under one series of our indebtedness may also constitute a default under another series of our indebtedness.. We have guaranteed a number of loans in connection with various real estate investments, which may result in us being obligated to make certain payments.. We have provided recourse guarantees associated with loans secured by real estate. The maximum potential undiscounted amount of future payments that we could be required to make under these guarantees was approximately $69.4 million at December 31, 2017. The guarantees expire through 2027, and our performance under the guarantees would be required to the extent there is a shortfall upon liquidation between the principal amount of the loan and the net sales proceeds of the property. If we were to become obligated to perform on these guarantees, our financial condition could suffer.. We are subject to certain \"non-recourse carve out\" guarantees that may be triggered in the future.. Most of our real estate properties are encumbered by traditional non-recourse debt obligations. In connection with most of these loans, however, we entered into certain \"non-recourse carve out\" guarantees, which provide for the loans to become partially or fully recourse against us if certain triggering events occur. Although these events are different for each guarantee, some of the common events include:. • the special purpose property-owning subsidiary's filing a voluntary petition for bankruptcy;. 20. Table of Contents. • the special purpose property-owning subsidiary's failure to maintain its status as a special purpose entity; and. • subject to certain conditions, the special purpose property-owning subsidiary's failure to obtain lender's written consent prior to obtaining any subordinate financing or encumbering the associated property.. In the event that any of these triggering events occur and the loans become partially or fully recourse against us, our business, financial condition, results of operations and common stock price could be materially adversely affected.. The deteriorating financial condition and/or results of operations of certain of our clients could adversely affect our business.. We could be adversely affected by the actions and deteriorating financial condition and results of operations of certain of our clients. Losses or defaults by one or more of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any of our clients may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its results of operations and financial condition. As a result, a client may fail to make payments when due, become insolvent or declare bankruptcy. Any client bankruptcy or insolvency, or the failure of any client to make payments when due, could result in losses to our company. A client bankruptcy would delay or preclude full collection of amounts owed to us. Additionally, certain corporate services and property management client agreements require that we advance payroll and other vendor costs on behalf of clients. If such a client were to file bankruptcy or otherwise fail, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for those costs or for the severance obligations we would incur as a result of the loss of the client.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $146.3 million and $146.7 million of federal and California net operating loss carryforwards, respectively, as well as approximately $17.3 million of foreign tax credits, which generally can be used to offset future taxable income.  However, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (\"the Code\"), if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\", the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and foreign tax credits to offset its post-change income may be limited. Generally, a corporation experiences such an ownership change if the percentage of its stock owned by its \"5-percent shareholders,\" as defined in Section 382 of the Code, increases by more than 50 percentage points (by value) over a three-year period.  We are currently conducting a detailed analysis to determine whether an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code has previously occurred.  In addition, recently enacted U.S. tax legislation, commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\"), will limit the application of net operating loss carryforwards generated after December 31, 2017 to 80% of taxable income.. Recent U.S. tax legislation may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The TCJA has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations, including by reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax, limiting interest deductions, permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, imposing a one-time transition tax (or \"repatriation tax\") on all undistributed earnings and profits of certain U.S.-owned foreign corporations, revising the rules governing net operating losses, eliminating the deductibility of certain performance-based executive compensation and the rules governing foreign tax credits, and introducing new anti-base erosion provisions. Many of these changes are effective beginning with our 2018 taxable year, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the U.S. Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities.. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect us in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. We continue to work with our tax advisors and auditors to determine the full impact that the recent tax legislation as a whole will have on us. We urge our investors to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation.. We may fail to comply with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.. We are subject to section 404 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules of the SEC, which generally require our management and independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Although our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2017 and our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an unqualified report as to the same, our management or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to come to the same conclusion in future. 21. Table of Contents. periods.  During the course of the review and testing of our internal controls, we may identify deficiencies and weaknesses and be unable to remediate them before we must provide the required reports. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, our operating results may suffer, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our stock may fall.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our directors and officers and their affiliates are significant stockholders, which makes it possible for them to have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to stockholders for approval and which influence may be in conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, our directors and executive officers and their respective affiliates owned an aggregate of approximately 13% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. These stockholders will have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted for stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions. In addition, such influence by one or more of these stockholders could discourage others from attempting to purchase or take us over in a transaction that would be favorable to our other stockholders or reduce the market price offered for our common stock in such an event.. We may issue additional equity securities, which may dilute your interest in us.. In order to expand our business, we may consider offering and issuing additional equity or equity-based securities. If we issue and sell additional shares of our common stock, the ownership interests of our existing stockholders will be diluted to the extent they do not participate in the offering.  The number of shares that we may issue for cash in non-public offerings without stockholder approval will be limited by the rules of the NYSE or other exchange on which our securities are listed. However, we may issue and sell shares of our common stock in public offerings, and there generally are exceptions that allow companies to issue a limited number of equity securities in private offerings without stockholder approval, which could dilute your ownership.. The price of our common stock may be volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has historically been and may in the future continue to be volatile due to factors such as:. • changes in real estate prices;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of our publicly held competitors;. • mergers and strategic alliances among any real estate companies;. • market conditions in the industry;. • changes in government regulation and taxes;. • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts;. • investor sentiment toward the stock of real estate companies in general;. • announcements concerning us or our competitors; and. • the general state of the securities markets.. Our common stock may be delisted, which could limit your ability to trade our common stock and subject us to additional trading restrictions.. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE, a national securities exchange. However, our common stock may not continue to be listed on the NYSE in the future. If the NYSE delists our common stock from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including:. • a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock;. • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company;. • a decreased ability for us to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and. • limited liquidity for our stockholders due to thin trading.. Our staggered board may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders, and certain anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage a change in control.. 22. Table of Contents. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for our board of directors to be divided into three classes, each of which generally serves for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. As a result, at any annual meeting only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election. Since this \"staggered board\" would prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our board of directors at any annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. Additionally, certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in the payment of a premium over the market price for the shares held by stockholders.. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may, under certain circumstances, make it more difficult for a person who would be an \"interested stockholder\" to effect a \"business combination\" with us for a three-year period. An \"interested stockholder\" generally is defined as any entity or person that beneficially owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or any entity or person that is an affiliate or associate of such entity or person.  A \"business combination\" generally is defined to include, among other transactions, mergers, consolidations and certain other transactions, including sales, leases or other dispositions of assets with an aggregate market value equal to 10% or more of the aggregate market value of the corporation.. These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party's offer may be considered beneficial by many stockholders. As a result, stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares.. We may change our dividend policy.. Future distributions will be declared and paid at the discretion of our board of directors and the amount and timing of distributions will depend upon cash generated by operating activities, our financial condition, capital requirements, restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. Our board of directors may change our dividend policy at any time, and there can be no assurance as to the manner in which future dividends will be paid or that the current dividend level will be maintained in future periods."
