[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Most issuers, including Kingsway, are exposed to numerous risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from recent results or anticipated future results.  The risks and uncertainties described below are those specific to the Company that we currently believe have the potential to be material, but they may not be the only ones we face.  If any of the following risks, or any other risks and uncertainties that we have not yet identified or that we currently consider not to be material, actually occur or become material risks, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.  Investors are advised to consider these factors along with the other information included in this 2017 Annual Report and to consult any further disclosures Kingsway makes on related subjects in its filings with the SEC.. FINANCIAL RISK. Kingsway is a holding company, and its operating insurance subsidiaries are subject to dividend restrictions and are required to maintain minimum capital and surplus levels, which could limit our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Kingsway is a holding company with assets consisting primarily of the capital stock of its subsidiaries.  Our operations are and will continue to be limited by the earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends to us.  The payment of dividends by our operating insurance subsidiaries is subject to various statutory and regulatory restrictions imposed by the insurance laws of the domiciliary jurisdiction, including Barbados, of each such subsidiary.  As a result of operating losses recorded in recent years, at this time none of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries is able to declare and pay a dividend to the holding company without prior regulatory approval.  The Company expects these restrictions to continue.  In the case of other subsidiaries not currently subject to these restrictions, these subsidiaries may be limited in their ability to make dividend payments or advance funds to Kingsway in the future because of the need to support their own capital levels.  The inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. See the \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" section of MD&A for a detailed description of the liquidity requirements of the holding company and the regulatory capital requirements of the operating insurance subsidiaries.  No assurances can be given that the operating insurance subsidiaries will be able to maintain compliance with these regulatory capital requirements.. We have substantial outstanding recourse debt, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing in the future, react to changes in our business and satisfy our obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $90.5 million principal value of outstanding recourse subordinated debt, in the form of trust preferred debt instruments, with redemption dates beginning in December, 2032.  Because of our substantial outstanding recourse debt:. • our ability to engage in acquisitions without raising additional equity or obtaining additional debt financing could be limited;. • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes and our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt may be impaired in the future;. • a large portion of our cash flow must be dedicated to the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes;. 16. KINGSWAY FINANCIAL SERVICES INC.. • we are exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because our outstanding subordinated debt, representing $90.5 million of principal value, bears interest directly related to the London interbank offered interest rate for three-month U.S. dollar deposits (\"LIBOR\");. • it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our creditors, resulting in possible defaults on, and acceleration of, such debt;. • we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with proportionately less debt or with comparable debt on more favorable terms and, as a result, they may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns;. • our ability to refinance debt may be limited or the associated costs may increase;. • our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited; and. • we may be prevented from carrying out capital spending that is, among other things, necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve the operating results of our businesses.. Increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our subordinated debt and could adversely affect our results of operation.. Our outstanding recourse debt of $90.5 million principal value bears interest directly related to LIBOR.  As a result, increases in LIBOR would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could adversely affect our results of operations.  As of December 31, 2017, each one hundred basis point increase in LIBOR would result in an approximately $0.9 million increase in our annual interest expense.. Our operations are restricted by the terms of our debt indentures, which could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet our capital needs.. Our debt indentures contain numerous covenants that may limit our ability, among other things, to make particular types of restricted payments and pay dividends or redeem capital stock.  The covenants under our debt agreements could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs.  No assurances can be given that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants.. If we are not able to comply with the covenants and other requirements contained in the debt indentures, an event of default under the relevant debt instrument could occur.  If an event of default does occur, it could trigger a default under our other debt instruments, and the holders of the defaulted debt instrument could declare amounts outstanding with respect to such debt to become immediately due and payable.  Upon such an event, our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments.  In addition, such a repayment under an event of default could adversely affect our liquidity and force us to sell assets to repay borrowings.. The Investment Committee of the Board of Directors closely monitors the debt and capital position and, from time to time, recommends capital initiatives based upon the circumstances of the Company.. The Real Property is leased pursuant to a long-term triple net lease and the failure of the tenant to satisfy its obligations under the lease may adversely affect the condition of the Real Property or the results of the Leased Real Estate segment.. Because the Real Property is leased pursuant to a long-term triple net lease, we depend on the tenant to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities, common area maintenance charges, maintenance and repair expenses and to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with its business, including any environmental liabilities.  There can be no assurance that the tenant will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to satisfy its payment obligations to us under the lease.  The inability or unwillingness of the tenant to meet its rent obligations to CMC or to satisfy its other obligations, including indemnification obligations, could materially adversely affect the business, financial position or results of operations of our Leased Real Estate segment.  Furthermore, the inability or unwillingness of the tenant to satisfy its other obligations under the lease, such as the payment of insurance, taxes and utilities, could materially and adversely affect the condition of the Real Property.. Our triple net lease agreement requires that the tenant maintain comprehensive liability and hazard insurance.  However, there are certain types of losses (including losses arising from environmental conditions or of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods) that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable.  Insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of a loss.  Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace the property after such property has been damaged or destroyed.  In addition, if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy coverage limits, we could lose the capital invested in the property as well as the anticipated future cash flows from the property.. 17. KINGSWAY FINANCIAL SERVICES INC.. We may not be able to realize our investment objectives, which could significantly reduce our earnings and liquidity.. We depend on our investments, particularly our fixed maturities, for a substantial portion of our liquidity.  As of December 31, 2017, our investments included $53.2 million of fixed maturities, at fair value.  General economic conditions can adversely affect the markets for interest rate-sensitive instruments, including the extent and timing of investor participation in such markets, the level and volatility of interest rates and, consequently, the fair value of fixed maturities.  In addition, changing economic conditions can result in increased defaults by the issuers of investments that we own.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control.  Given the low interest rate environment that exists for fixed maturities, a significant increase in investment yields or an impairment of investments that we own could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition by reducing the fair value of the investments we own, particularly if we were forced to liquidate investments at a loss.  The low interest rate environment for fixed maturities that has existed for years also exposes us to reinvestment risk as these investments mature because the funds may be reinvested at rates lower than those of the maturing investments.. As of December 31, 2017, our investments also included $25.2 million of limited liability investments and a $10.3 million limited liability investment, at fair value.  These investments are less liquid than fixed maturities.  We generally make these investments with long-term time horizons in mind.  General economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors can adversely affect the fair value of the investments we own.  If circumstances necessitated us disposing of our limited liability investments prematurely in order to generate liquidity for operating purposes, we would be exposed to realizing less than their carrying value.. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives is affected by general economic conditions that are beyond our control and our own liquidity needs for operating purposes.  We may not be able to realize our investment objectives, which could adversely  affect our results of operations, financial condition and available cash resources.. A difficult economy generally may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. An adverse change in market conditions leading to instability in the global credit markets presents additional risks and uncertainties for our business.  In particular, deterioration in the public debt markets could lead to investment losses and an erosion of capital in our insurance company subsidiaries as a result of a reduction in the fair value of investments.. Depending on market conditions going forward, we could incur substantial realized and unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.  We could also experience a reduction in capital in our insurance subsidiaries below levels required by the regulators in the jurisdictions in which they operate.  Certain trust accounts and letters of credit for the benefit of related companies and third-parties have been established with collateral on deposit under the terms and conditions of the relevant trust and/or letter of credit agreements.  The value of collateral could fall below the levels required under these agreements putting the subsidiary or subsidiaries in breach of the agreements.. Market volatility may also make it more difficult to value certain of our investments if trading becomes less frequent.  Disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the global credit markets may also impact our ability to obtain financing for future acquisitions.  If financing is available, it may only be available at an unattractive cost of capital, which would decrease our profitability.  There can be no assurance that market conditions will not deteriorate in the near future.. Financial disruption or a prolonged economic downturn may materially and adversely affect our business.. Worldwide financial markets have recently experienced periods of extraordinary disruption and volatility, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of investments and decreased economic activity.  Moreover, many companies have experienced reduced liquidity and uncertainty as to their ability to raise capital during such periods of market disruption and volatility.  In the event that these conditions recur or result in a prolonged economic downturn, our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected.  These market conditions may affect the Company's ability to access debt and equity capital markets.  In addition, as a result of recent financial events, we may face increased regulation.  Many of the other risk factors discussed in this Risk Factors section identify risks that result from, or are exacerbated by, financial economic downturn.  These include risks related to our investments portfolio, the competitive environment, adequacy of unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses and regulatory developments.. We provided indemnity and hold harmless agreements to a third party, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We provided indemnity and hold harmless agreements to a third-party for certain customs bonds reinsured by Lincoln General Insurance Company (\"Lincoln General\") during a period of the time Lincoln General was a subsidiary of ours.  These agreements may require us to compensate the third-party if Lincoln General is unable to fulfill its obligations relating to the customs bonds.  Our potential exposure under these agreements is not determinable, and no assurances can be given that we will not be required. 18. KINGSWAY FINANCIAL SERVICES INC.. to perform under these agreements in a manner that has a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have generated net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. income tax purposes, but our ability to use these net operating losses may be limited by our inability to generate future taxable income.. Our U.S. businesses have generated consolidated net operating loss carryforwards (\"U.S. NOLs\") for U.S. federal income tax purposes of approximately $882.4 million as of December 31, 2017.  These U.S. NOLs can be available to reduce income taxes that might otherwise be incurred on future U.S. taxable income.  The utilization of these U.S. NOLs would have a positive effect on our cash flow.  Our operations, however, remain challenged, and there can be no assurance that we will generate the taxable income in the future necessary to utilize these U.S. NOLs and realize the positive cash flow benefit.  Also, our U.S. NOLs have expiration dates.  There can be no assurance that, if and when we generate taxable income in the future from operations or the sale of assets or businesses, we will generate such taxable income before our U.S. NOLs expire.. We have generated U.S. NOLs, but our ability to preserve and use these U.S. NOLs may be limited or impaired by future ownership changes.. Our ability to utilize the U.S. NOLs after an \"ownership change\" is subject to the rules of Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (\"Section 382\").  An ownership change occurs if, among other things, the shareholders (or specified groups of shareholders) who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, five (5%) percent or more of the value of our shares or are otherwise treated as five (5%) percent shareholders under Section 382 and the regulations promulgated thereunder increase their aggregate percentage ownership of the value of our shares by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the value of the shares owned by these shareholders over a three-year rolling period.  An ownership change could also be triggered by other activities, including the sale of our shares that are owned by our five (5%) shareholders.  In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 would impose an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income we may offset with U.S. NOLs.  This annual limitation is generally equal to the product of the value of our shares on the date of the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate in effect on the date of the ownership change.  The long-term tax-exempt rate is published monthly by the Internal Revenue Service.  Any unused Section 382 annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective U.S. NOLs.  In the event an ownership change as defined under Section 382 were to occur, our ability to utilize our U.S. NOLs would become substantially limited.  The consequence of this limitation would be the potential loss of a significant future cash flow benefit because we would no longer be able to substantially offset future taxable income with U.S. NOLs.  There can be no assurance that such ownership change will not occur in the future.. Expiration of our tax benefit preservation plan may increase the probability that we will experience an ownership change as defined under Section 382.. In order to reduce the likelihood that we would experience an ownership change without the approval of our Board of Directors, our shareholders ratified and approved the tax benefit preservation plan agreement (the \"Plan\"), dated as of September 28, 2010, between the Company and Computershare Investor Services Inc., as rights agent, for the sole purpose of protecting the U.S. NOLs.  The Plan expired on September 28, 2013.  There can be no assurance that our Board of Directors will recommend to our shareholders that a similar tax benefit preservation plan be approved to replace the expired Plan; furthermore, there can be no assurance that our shareholders would approve any new tax benefit preservation plan were our Board of Directors to present one for shareholder approval.  The expiration of the Plan, without a new tax benefit preservation plan, exposes us to certain changes in share ownership that we would not be able to prevent as we would have been able to prevent under the Plan.  Such changes in share ownership could trigger an ownership change as defined under Section 382 resulting in restrictions on the use of NOLs in future periods, as discussed above.. We will only be able to utilize our U.S. NOLs against the future taxable income generated by companies we acquire if we are able to include the acquired companies in our U.S. consolidated tax return group.. We have in the past acquired companies and expect to do so in the future.  Our ability to include acquired companies in our U.S.  consolidated tax return group is subject to the rules of Section 1504 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  If it were ever determined that an acquired company did not qualify to be included in our U.S. consolidated tax return group, such acquired company would be required to file a U.S. tax return separate and apart from our U.S. consolidated tax return group.  In that instance, the acquired company would be required to pay U.S. income tax on its taxable income despite the existence of our U.S. NOLs, which would be a use of cash at the acquired company; furthermore, were the income tax obligation of the acquired company in such instance to be greater than its available cash, we could be obligated to contribute cash to our subsidiary to meet its income tax obligation.  There can be no assurance that an acquired company will generate taxable income and, if an acquired company does generate taxable income, there can be no assurance that the acquired company will be allowed to be included in our U.S. consolidated tax return group.. 19. KINGSWAY FINANCIAL SERVICES INC.. Our being registered as a Canadian domestic company subjects us to being taxed in Canada on foreign accrual property income that cannot be offset by our U.S. NOLs.. Canadian domestic companies are subject to taxation on certain non-Canadian sourced income called foreign accrual property income (\"FAPI\").  FAPI is traditionally comprised of passive income (i.e. interest, dividends, rents, capital gains and income generated from triple net leases).  As a result, our investment portfolio, triple net lease and merchant banking activities are generally deemed to be sources of FAPI.  Active trades or businesses are generally not considered sources of FAPI; however, pursuant to current Canadian tax law, our U.S. property-casualty insurance companies may be considered sources of FAPI.  Our FAPI is subject to taxation in Canada regardless of whether we separately utilize our U.S. NOLs to offset that same income for U.S. income tax purposes.  As a result, we could be required to pay Canadian income tax on FAPI despite the existence of our U.S. NOLs.  We are currently in a position to offset some amount of FAPI using available Canadian NOLs and foreign accrual property losses (\"FAPLs\") that have been generated based upon our prior year loss activity.  In the event that we do not have sufficient Canadian NOLs and FAPLs to offset future FAPI, however, we would be required to pay Canadian income tax, which would have a negative effect on our cash flow.  There can be no assurance that our available Canadian NOLs and FAPLs will offset our future FAPI.  In order for us to avoid paying Canadian income tax on future FAPI, we would have to redomesticate to a non-Canadian jurisdiction.. COMPLIANCE RISK. If we fail to comply with applicable insurance and securities laws or regulatory requirements, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. As a publicly traded holding company listed on the Toronto and New York Stock Exchanges and that owns several property and casualty insurance subsidiaries, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations.  These laws and regulations delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to federal, provincial or state regulators.. Insurance regulations are generally designed to protect policyholders rather than shareholders and are related to matters including:. • rate-setting;. • risk-based capital and solvency standards;. • restrictions on the amount, type, nature, quality and quantity of investments;. • the maintenance of adequate provisions for unearned premiums and unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses;. • restrictions on the types of terms that can be included in insurance policies;. • standards for accounting;. • marketing practices;. • claims-settlement practices;. • the examination of insurance companies by regulatory authorities, including periodic financial and market conduct examinations;. • the licensing of insurers and their agents;. • limitations on dividends and transactions with affiliates;. • approval of certain reinsurance transactions; and. • insolvency proceedings.. In light of losses incurred in recent years, Kingsway and its regulated subsidiaries have been subject to intense review and supervision by insurance regulators.  Our regulated insurance businesses are also subject to periodic financial, market conduct and other types of examinations initiated by the insurance regulators in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or in which we conduct our insurance business.  These insurance regulators have broad discretion during the course of these examinations to assert their authority and take significant steps intended, in their sole discretion, to protect the policyholders of the insurance companies we own.  These steps have included:. • requesting additional capital contributions from Kingsway to its insurance subsidiaries;. • requiring certain actions be taken with respect to the investment portfolios of the insurance companies;. • requiring certain analyses be undertaken and plans be developed for submission to the insurance regulators;. • prohibiting certain actions of the insurance companies without the approval of the insurance regulators; and. • requiring more frequent reporting, including with respect to capital and liquidity positions.. These and other actions have made it challenging for the Company to continue to maintain focus on the operation and development of its businesses.  The Company does not expect these conditions to change in the foreseeable future.. In light of financial performance and a number of material transactions executed over the years, the Company has been asked to respond to questions from and provide information to regulatory bodies overseeing insurance and/or securities laws in Canada. 20. KINGSWAY FINANCIAL SERVICES INC.. and the United States.  The Company has cooperated in all respects with these reviews and has responded to information requests on a timely basis.. Any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or the mandates of our insurance regulators could result in the imposition of fines or significant restrictions on our ability to do business, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  In addition, any changes in laws or regulations, including the adoption of consumer initiatives regarding rates charged for automobile or other insurance coverage or claims-handling procedures, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  It is not possible to predict the future impact of changing federal, state and provincial regulation on our operations, and there can be no assurance that laws and regulations enacted in the future will not be more restrictive than existing laws and regulations.. Our business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions.. We are a defendant in a number of legal actions relating to our insurance and other business operations.  We may from time to time be subject to a variety of legal and regulatory actions relating to our current and past business operations, including, but not limited to:. • disputes over coverage or claims adjudication;. • disputes regarding sales practices, disclosure, premium refunds, licensing, regulatory compliance and compensation arrangements;. • disputes with agents, producers or network providers over compensation and termination of contracts and related claims;. • disputes with taxing authorities regarding our tax liabilities; and. • disputes relating to certain businesses acquired or disposed of by us.. In addition, plaintiffs continue to bring new types of legal actions against insurance and related companies.  Current and future court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure to these types of claims.  Multiparty or class action claims may present additional exposure to substantial economic, non-economic or punitive damage awards.  The loss of even one of these claims, if it resulted in a significant award or a judicial ruling that was otherwise detrimental, could create a precedent in our industry that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  This risk of potential liability may make reasonable settlements of claims more difficult to obtain.  We cannot determine with any certainty what new theories of recovery may evolve or what their impact may be on our business.. We may be subject to governmental or administrative investigations and proceedings in the context of our highly regulated businesses.  We cannot predict the outcome of these investigations, proceedings and reviews, and cannot assure that such investigations, proceedings or reviews or related litigation or changes in operating policies and practices would not materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, if we were to experience difficulties with our relationship with a regulatory body in a given jurisdiction, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business in that jurisdiction.. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements.. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.  In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on its evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting.  As disclosed in Item 9A of our 2016 Annual Report, we previously identified a material weakness as of December 31, 2016 in our internal control over financial reporting related to income tax accounting for non-routine transactions.. Although we successfully remediated this material weakness during 2017, we can provide no assurance that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future and that such material weaknesses, if identified, will not result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements.. STRATEGIC RISK. The achievement of our strategic objectives is highly dependent on effective change management.. We have restructured our operating insurance subsidiaries, including exiting states and lines of business, placing subsidiaries into voluntary run-off, terminating managing general agent relationships and hiring a new management team, with the objective of focusing on core lines of business, creating a more effective and efficient operating structure and focusing on profitability.  These actions resulted in changes to our structure and business processes. While these changes are expected to bring us benefits in the form of a more agile and focused business, success is dependent on management effectively realizing the intended benefits.  Change management may result in disruptions to the operations of the business or may cause employees to act in a manner that is inconsistent. 21. KINGSWAY FINANCIAL SERVICES INC.. with our objectives.  Any of these events could negatively impact our performance.  We may not always achieve the expected cost savings and other benefits of our initiatives.. We may experience difficulty continuing to reduce our holding company expenses while at the same time retaining staff given the significant reduction in size and scale of our businesses.. We have divested a number of subsidiaries and significantly reduced our written premium in the insurance subsidiaries we continue to own.  At the same time, we have been downsizing our holding company expense base in an attempt to compensate for the reduction in scale.  There can be no assurance that our remaining businesses will produce enough cash flow to adequately compensate and retain staff and to service our other holding company obligations, particularly the interest expense burden of our remaining outstanding debt.. The insurance industry and related businesses in which we operate may be subject to periodic negative publicity, which may negatively impact our financial results.. Our products and services are ultimately distributed to individual consumers.  From time to time, consumer advocacy groups or the media may focus attention on insurance products and services, thereby subjecting our industry to periodic negative publicity.  We also may be negatively impacted if participants in one or more of our markets engage in practices resulting in increased public attention to our businesses.  Negative publicity may also result in increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of practices in the property and casualty insurance industry as well as increased litigation.  These factors may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, requiring us to change our products or services, or by increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate.. The highly competitive environment in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The property and casualty markets in which we operate are highly competitive.  We compete with major North American and other insurers, many of which have more financial, marketing and management resources than we do.  There may also be other companies of which we are not aware that may be planning to enter the property and casualty insurance industry.  Insurers in our markets generally compete on the basis of price, consumer recognition, coverages offered, claims handling, financial stability, customer service and geographic coverage.  Although our pricing is influenced to some degree by that of our competitors, we generally believe that it is not in our best interest to compete solely on price.  As a result, we are willing to experience from time to time a loss of market share during periods of intense price competition.  Our business could be adversely impacted by the loss of business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices.  This competition could affect our ability to attract and retain profitable business.. In our non-standard automobile business, we compete with both large national underwriters and smaller regional companies.  Our competitors include other companies that, like us, serve the independent agency market, as well as companies that sell insurance directly to customers.  Direct underwriters may have certain competitive advantages over agency underwriters, including increased name recognition, loyalty of the customer base to the insurer rather than to an independent agency and reduced costs to acquire policies.. Additionally, in certain states, government-operated risk plans may provide non-standard automobile insurance products at lower prices than we provide.. From time to time, our markets may also attract competition from new entrants.  In some cases, such entrants may, because of inexperience, the desire for new business or for other reasons, price their insurance below the rates that we believe offer acceptable premiums for the related risk.  Further, a number of our competitors, including new entrants to our markets, are developing e-business capabilities that may impact the level of business transacted through our more traditional distribution channels or that may affect pricing in the market as a whole.. The vehicle service agreement market in which we compete is comprised of a few large companies, which market service agreements to credit unions on a national basis and have significantly more financial, marketing and management resources than we do, as well as several other companies that are somewhat similar in size to IWS that market service agreements to credit unions either on a regional basis or a less robust national basis.  There may also be other companies of which we are not aware that may be planning to enter the vehicle service agreement industry.  Competitors in our market generally compete on coverages offered, claims handling, customer service, financial stability and, to a lesser extent, price.  Larger competitors of ours benefit from added advantages such as industry endorsements and preferred vendor status.  We do not believe that it is in our best interest to compete solely on price.  Instead, we focus our marketing on the total value experience to the credit union and its member, with an emphasis on customer service. While we historically have been able to adjust our product offering to remain competitive when competitors. 22. KINGSWAY FINANCIAL SERVICES INC.. have focused on price, our business could be adversely impacted by the loss of business to competitors offering vehicle service agreements at lower prices.. Engaging in acquisitions involves risks, and, if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our business may be materially harmed.. From time to time we engage in discussions concerning acquisition opportunities and, as a result of such discussions, may enter into acquisition transactions.. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including the following:. • difficulties in the integration of the acquired business;. • assumption of unknown material liabilities, including deficient provisions for unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses;. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • failure to achieve financial or operating objectives; and. • potential loss of policyholders or key employees of acquired companies.. We may not be able to integrate or operate successfully any business, operations, personnel, services or products that we may acquire in the future.. Engaging in new business start-ups involves risks, and, if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our business may be materially harmed.. From time to time we engage in discussions concerning the formation of a new business venture and, as a result of such discussions, may form and capitalize a new business.. New business start-ups entail numerous risks, including the following:. • identification of appropriate management to run the new business;. • understanding the strategic, competitive and marketplace dynamics of the new business and, perhaps, industry;. • establishment of proper financial and operational controls;. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and. • failure to achieve financial or operating objectives.. We may not be able to operate successfully any business, operations, personnel, services or products that we may organize as a new business start-up in the future.. Our company has executive officers who also serve as directors and executive officers for 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc., Atlas Financial Holdings, Inc., Limbach Holdings, Inc., Itasca Capital Ltd. and 1347 Energy Holdings LLC, entities in which we hold investments, which may lead to conflicting interests.. As a result of our having previously spun off 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc. (\"PIH\") and Atlas Financial Holdings, Inc. (\"Atlas\"); formed 1347 Capital Corp., which later entered into a business combination with Limbach Holdings, Inc. (\"Limbach\"); and invested in Itasca Capital Ltd. (\"ICL\") and 1347 Energy Holdings LLC (\"1347 Energy\"), entities in which we hold investments, we have executive officers who also serve as directors for PIH, Atlas, Limbach, ICL and 1347 Energy and who serve as executive officers, pursuant to a management services agreement, for ICL.  Our executive officers and members of our Company's board of directors have fiduciary duties to our stockholders; likewise, persons who serve in similar capacities at PIH, Atlas, Limbach, ICL and 1347 Energy have fiduciary duties to those companies' stockholders.  We may find, though, the potential for a conflict of interest if our Company and one or more of these other companies pursue acquisitions, investments and other business opportunities that may be suitable for each of us.  Our executive officers who find themselves in these multiple roles may, as a result, have conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting more than one of the companies to which they owe fiduciary duties.  Furthermore, our executive officers who find themselves in these multiple roles own stock options, shares of common stock and other securities in some of these entities.  These ownership interests could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the applicable individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our Company and these other entities.  Our Audit Committee reviews potential conflicts that may arise on a case-by-case basis, keeping in mind the applicable fiduciary duties owed by the executive officers and directors of each entity.  From time to time, we may enter into transactions with or participate jointly in investments with PIH, Atlas, Limbach, ICL or 1347 Energy.  There can be no assurance that we will not create new situations where our directors or executive officers serve as directors or executive officers in future investment holdings of our Company.. 23. KINGSWAY FINANCIAL SERVICES INC.. OPERATIONAL RISK. Our provisions for unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses may be inadequate, which would result in a reduction in our net income and might adversely affect our financial condition.. Our provisions for unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses do not represent an exact calculation of our actual liability but are estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time of what we expect to be the cost of the ultimate settlement and administration of reported and IBNR claims.  The process for establishing the provision for unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses reflects the uncertainties and significant judgmental factors inherent in estimating future results of both reported and IBNR claims and, as such, the process is inherently complex and imprecise.  These estimates are based upon various factors, including:. • actuarial projections of the cost of settlement and administration of claims reflecting facts and circumstances then known;. • estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency;. • legal theories of liability;. • variability in claims-handling procedures;. • economic factors such as inflation;. • judicial and legislative trends, actions such as class action lawsuits, and judicial interpretation of coverages or policy exclusions; and. • the level of insurance fraud.. Most or all of these factors are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis, and the effects of these and unforeseen factors could negatively impact our ability to accurately assess the risks of the policies that we write.  In addition, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of insured events and the time they are actually reported to us and additional lags between the time of reporting and final settlement of claims.. As time passes and more information about the claims becomes known, the estimates are appropriately adjusted upward or downward to reflect this additional information.  Because of the elements of uncertainty encompassed in this estimation process, and the extended time it can take to settle many of the more substantial claims, several years of experience may be required before a meaningful comparison can be made between actual losses and the original provision for unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses.. We cannot assure that we will not have unfavorable development in the future.  In addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, acquire other insurance companies.  We cannot assure that the provisions for unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses of the companies that we acquire are or will be adequate.. In addition, government regulators for our insurance subsidiaries could require that we increase our provisions for unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses if they determine that our provisions are understated.  Such an increase to the provision for unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses for one of our insurance subsidiaries could cause a reduction in its surplus as regards policyholders, which could adversely affect our ability to sell insurance policies.. Our Extended Warranty subsidiaries' deferred service fees may be inadequate, which would result in a reduction in our net income and might adversely affect our financial condition.. Our Extended Warranty subsidiaries' deferred service fees do not represent an exact calculation but are estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time of what we expect to be the remaining future revenue to be recognized in relation to our remaining future obligations to provide policy administration and claim-handling services.  The process for establishing deferred service fees reflects the uncertainties and significant judgmental factors inherent in estimating the length of time and the amount of work related to our future service obligations.  If we amortize the deferred service fees too quickly, we could overstate current revenues, which may adversely affect future reported operating results.. As time passes and more information about the remaining service obligations becomes known, the estimates are appropriately adjusted upward or downward to reflect this additional information.  We cannot assure that we will not have unfavorable re-estimations in the future of our deferred service fees.  In addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, acquire companies that record deferred service fees.  We cannot assure that the deferred service fees of the companies that we acquire are or will be adequate.. Our reliance on independent agents can impact our ability to maintain business, and it exposes us to credit risk.. We market and distribute our automobile insurance products through a network of independent agents in the United States.  As a result, we rely heavily on these agents to attract new business.  They typically represent more than one insurance company, which may expose us to competition within the agencies and, therefore, we cannot rely on their commitment to our insurance products.. 24. KINGSWAY FINANCIAL SERVICES INC.. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by these intermediaries could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In accordance with industry practice, our customers sometimes pay the premiums for their policies to agents for remittance to us.  These premiums are considered paid when received by the agents and thereafter the customer is no longer liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the agents.  Consequently, we assume a degree of risk associated with our reliance on independent agents in connection with the settlement of insurance balances.. Our reliance on credit unions and automobile sales can impact our ability to maintain business.. We market and distribute our vehicle service agreements through a network of credit unions in the United States.  As a result, we rely heavily on these credit unions to attract new business.  While these distribution arrangements tend to be exclusive between us and each credit union, we have competitors that offer similar products exclusively through credit unions.  Loss of all or a substantial portion of our existing credit union relationships; a significant decline in membership in our existing credit union relationships; or a significant decline in new and used automobile sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our reliance on homebuilders and new home sales can impact our ability to maintain business.. We market and distribute our core home warranty products through home builders throughout the United States.  As a result, we rely heavily on these home builders to generate new business.  Loss of all or a substantial portion of our existing home builder relationships or a significant decline in new home sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our reliance on a limited number of warranty and maintenance support clients and customers can impact our ability to maintain business.. We market and distribute our warranty products and equipment breakdown and maintenance support services through a limited number of customers and clients across the United States.  Loss of all or a substantial portion of our existing customers and clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our gross premiums written are derived from the non-standard automobile markets.  If the demand for insurance in this market declines, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, 100.0% of the gross premiums written from our Insurance Underwriting segment were attributable to non-standard automobile insurance.  The size of the non-standard automobile insurance market can be affected significantly by many factors outside of our control, such as the underwriting capacity and underwriting criteria of standard automobile insurance carriers, and we may be specifically affected by these factors.  Additionally, the non-standard automobile insurance market tends to contract during periods of high unemployment.  To the extent that the non-standard automobile insurance markets are affected adversely for any reason, our gross premiums written will be disproportionately affected due to our substantial reliance on these insurance markets.. We derive the majority of our non-standard automobile insurance gross premiums written from a few geographic areas, which may cause our business to be affected by catastrophic losses or business conditions in these areas.. Certain jurisdictions, specifically Florida, Texas, Illinois, California, Colorado and Nevada, generated 90.1% of our non-standard automobile insurance gross premiums written during 2017.. Our results of operations may, therefore, be adversely affected by any catastrophic losses in these areas.  Catastrophic losses can be caused by a wide variety of events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, wind, ice storms, hail, fires, terrorism, riots and explosions, and their incidence and severity are inherently unpredictable.  Catastrophic losses are characterized by low frequency but high severity due to aggregation of losses and could result in adverse effects on our results of operations or financial condition.  Our results of operations may also be adversely affected by general economic conditions, competition, regulatory actions or other business conditions that affect losses or business conditions in the specific areas in which we conduct most of our business.. If reinsurance rates rise significantly or reinsurance becomes unavailable or reinsurers are unable to pay amounts due to us, we may be adversely affected.. In the past, we have purchased reinsurance from third-parties in order to reduce our liability on individual risks.  Reinsurance does not relieve us of our primary liability to our insureds.  A third-party reinsurer's insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance treaty could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of. 25. KINGSWAY FINANCIAL SERVICES INC.. operations.  As of December 31, 2017, we had $0.4 million recoverable from third-party reinsurers, including reinsurance recoverable related to property and casualty unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses.. The amount and cost of reinsurance available to our insurance companies are subject, in large part, to prevailing market conditions beyond our control.  Our ability to provide insurance at competitive premium rates and coverage limits on a continuing basis may depend in part upon the extent to which we can obtain adequate reinsurance in amounts and at rates that will not adversely affect our competitive position.  If we determine in the future that access to reinsurance facilities is desirable or necessary in order for us to conduct business, we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain reinsurance in adequate amounts and at favorable rates.  If this were to occur, we may need to modify our underwriting practices or reduce our underwriting commitments.. Disruptions or security failures in our information technology systems could create liability for us and/or limit our ability to effectively monitor, operate and control our operations and adversely impact our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor, operate and control our operations.  Changes or modifications to our information technology systems could cause disruption to our operations or cause challenges with respect to our compliance with laws, regulations or other applicable standards.  For example, delays, higher than expected costs or unsuccessful implementation of new information technology systems could adversely impact our operations.  In addition, any disruption in or failure of our information technology systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows, including by limiting our capacity to monitor, operate and control our operations effectively.  Failures of our information technology systems could also lead to violations of privacy laws, regulations, trade guidelines or practices related to our customers and employees.  If our disaster recovery plans do not work as anticipated, or if the third-party vendors to which we have outsourced certain information technology or other services fail to fulfill their obligations to us, our operations may be adversely impacted.  Any of these circumstances could adversely impact our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.. Our success depends on our ability to price accurately the risks we underwrite.. Our results of operation and financial condition depend on our ability to underwrite and set premium rates accurately for a wide variety of risks.  Adequate rates are necessary to generate premiums sufficient to pay loss and loss adjustment expenses and other expenses and to earn a profit.  To price our products accurately, we must collect and properly analyze a substantial amount of data; develop, test and apply appropriate pricing techniques; closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy.  Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully, and as a result price our products accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside our control, including:. • the availability of reliable data and our ability to properly analyze available data;. • the uncertainties that inherently characterize estimates and assumptions;. • our selection and application of appropriate pricing techniques; and. • changes in applicable legal liability standards and in the civil litigation system generally.. Consequently, we could underprice risks, which would adversely affect our underwriting results, or we could overprice risks, which would reduce our sales volume and competitiveness.  In either case, our results of operation could be materially and adversely affected.. Our results of operation may fluctuate as a result of cyclical changes in the property and casualty insurance industry.. Our results of operation are primarily attributable to the property and casualty insurance industry, which as an industry is cyclical in nature and has historically been characterized by soft markets followed by hard markets.  A soft market is a period of relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards and generally low premium rates.  A hard market is a period of capital shortages resulting in lack of insurance availability, relatively low levels of competition, more selective underwriting of risks and relatively high premium rates.  If we find it necessary to reduce premiums or limit premium increases due to competitive pressures on pricing in a softening market, we may experience a reduction in our premiums written and, therefore, in our earned premium revenues, which could adversely affect our results of operation.. Our results of operation and financial condition could be adversely affected by the results of our voluntary run-off of two of our insurance subsidiaries.. The Company currently has two of its insurance subsidiaries, MCC and Amigo, operating in voluntary run-off.  Our success at managing these run-offs is highly dependent upon proper claim-handling and the availability of the necessary liquidity to pay claims when due.  As a result, we are dependent in part on our ability to retain the services of appropriately trained and supervised claim-handling personnel.  The loss of the services of any of our key claim-handling personnel working in our run-offs, or the. 26. KINGSWAY FINANCIAL SERVICES INC.. inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified claim-handling personnel in the future, could adversely affect our results of operations.  We are also dependent on the continuing availability of the necessary liquidity, from the sale of investments, collection of reinsurance recoverables and, potentially, capital contributions, to properly settle claims.  Our inability to sell investments when needed or to collect outstanding reinsurance recoverables when due could have an adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition.  See the \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" section of MD&A for additional detail regarding the voluntary run-offs of MCC and Amigo.. HUMAN RESOURCES RISK. Our business depends upon key employees, and if we are unable to retain the services of these key employees or to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our business may be adversely affected.. Our success at improving our performance will be dependent in part on our ability to retain the services of our existing key employees and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future.  The loss of the services of any of our key employees, or the inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect our results of operations."
