[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to our Business. Our product sales are tied to corporate spending and service-sector employment, which are outside of our control. Our sales and/or growth in sales would be adversely affected by a recessionary economy characterized by decreased corporate spending and service-sector employment.. Our sales are significantly impacted by the level of corporate spending primarily in North America, which, in turn, is a function of the general economic environment. In a recessionary economy, business confidence, service-sector employment, corporate cash flows and non-residential commercial construction decrease, which typically leads to a decrease in demand for furniture and our other products. In addition, a recessionary economy may also result in saturation of the market by \"just new\" used office systems, leading to a decrease in demand for new office systems furniture. Sales of office systems, which have historically accounted for almost half of our revenues, represent longer term and higher cost investments for our clients. As a result, sales of office systems are more severely impacted by decreases in corporate spending than sales of seating, ancillary products, coverings, studio products, and demand for office systems typically takes longer to respond to an economic recovery.. Geopolitical uncertainties, terrorist attacks, acts of war, natural disasters, increases in energy and other costs or combinations of such and other factors that are outside of our control could at any time have a significant effect on the economy, and, therefore, our business. The occurrence of any of these or similar events in the future could result in downward pressure on the economy, which we would expect to cause demand for our products to decline and competitive pricing pressures to increase.. Weakness in the economy or uncertainty in the financial markets may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as well as the financial soundness of our customers and suppliers.. Weakness in the economy or uncertainty in the financial markets may inhibit our ability to access capital and could be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access financial markets. In addition, interest rate fluctuations, financial market volatility or credit market disruptions may negatively affect our customers' and our suppliers' abilities to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms. As a result, our customers' needs and abilities to purchase our products or services may decrease, and our suppliers may increase their prices, reduce their output or change their terms of sale. If our customers' or suppliers' operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, our customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us, and our suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms on us. Any inability of customers to pay us for our products and services, or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms, may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow.. We may have difficulty increasing or maintaining our prices as a result of price competition, which could lower our profit margins. Our competitors may develop new product designs that give them an advantage over us in making future sales.. We compete with our competitors on the basis of, among other things, price and product design. Since our competitors offer products that are similar to ours, we face significant price competition from our competitors, particularly in the Office segment. This price competition impacts our ability to implement price increases or, in some cases, maintain prices, which could lower our profit margins.. Additionally, our competitors may develop new product designs that achieve a high level of customer acceptance, which could give them a competitive advantage over us in making future sales.. Our efforts to introduce new products that meet customer and workplace requirements may not be successful, which could limit our sales growth or cause our sales to decline.. To keep pace with workplace trends, such as changes in workplace design and increases in the use of technology, and with evolving regulatory and industry requirements, including environmental, health, safety and similar standards for the workplace and for product performance, we must periodically introduce new products. The introduction of new products requires the coordination of the design, manufacturing and marketing of such products, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. The design and engineering of certain of our new products can take up to a year or more and further time may be required to achieve client acceptance. In addition, we may face difficulties in introducing new products if we cannot successfully align ourselves with independent architects and designers who are able to design, in a timely manner, high-quality products consistent with our image. Accordingly, the launch of any particular product may be later or less successful than originally anticipated by us. Difficulties or delays in introducing new products or lack of customer acceptance of new products could limit our sales growth or cause our sales to decline.. 12. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to retain our experienced management team or recruit other key personnel.. The success of our business is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of qualified executives in the industry in which we compete. The loss of the services of key members of our management team, including Andrew B. Cogan, our Chief Executive Officer, could harm our efforts to successfully implement our business strategy.. We are dependent on the pricing and availability of raw materials and components, and price increases and unavailability of raw materials and components could lower sales, increase our cost of goods sold and reduce our profits and margins.. We require substantial amounts of raw materials, which we purchase from outside sources. Steel, plastics, wood-related materials, and leather are the main raw materials used in our products. The prices and availability of raw materials are subject to change or curtailment due to, among other things, the supply of, and demand for, such raw materials, changes in laws or regulations, including duties and tariffs, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by raw materials or component parts suppliers, changes in currency exchange rates and worldwide price levels. We can be significantly impacted by price increases in these raw materials.. Although no supplier is the only available source for a particular component or raw material, some of our products and components are extremely specialized and, therefore, it can take a significant amount of time and money to move from one supply source to another. Any failure to obtain raw materials and components on a timely basis, or any significant delays or interruptions in the supply of raw materials or components, could prevent us from being able to produce products ordered by our clients in a timely fashion, which could have a negative impact on our reputation and our dealership network, and could cause our sales to decline.. We are affected by the cost of energy and increases in energy prices could reduce our margins and profits.. The profitability of our operations is sensitive to the cost of energy through our transportation costs, the cost of petroleum-based materials, like plastics, and the cost of operating our manufacturing facilities. Energy costs have been volatile in recent years due to changes in global supply and demand. Although we have been successful in countering energy price increases, primarily through our global sourcing initiatives and continuous improvement programs, we have not been able to offset these costs entirely.. We rely upon independent furniture dealers, and a loss of a significant number of dealers could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on a network of independent dealers for the joint marketing of our products to small and mid-sized accounts, and to assist us in the marketing of our products to large accounts, particularly in the Office segment. We also rely upon these dealers to provide a variety of important specification, installation and after-market services to our clients. Our dealers operate, generally, under short-term, non-exclusive agreements. There is nothing to prevent our dealers from terminating their relationships with us. In addition, individual dealers may not continue to be viable and profitable and may suffer from the lack of available credit. While we are not significantly dependent on any single dealer, our largest dealer accounted for 4.6% of our North American sales in 2017; if dealers go out of business or are restructured, we may suffer losses as they may not be able to pay us for products previously delivered to them. The loss of a dealer relationship could also negatively affect our ability to maintain market share in the affected geographic market and to compete for and service clients in that market until a new dealer relationship is established. Establishing a viable dealer in a market can take a significant amount of time and resources. The loss or termination of a significant dealer or a significant number of dealer relationships could cause significant difficulties for us in marketing and distributing our products, resulting in a decline in our sales.. Currently, one of our largest clients is the U.S. government, a relationship that is subject to uncertain future funding levels and federal procurement laws and requires restrictive contract terms; any of these factors could curtail current or future business.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived approximately 4.1% and 6.0% of our revenue from sales to U.S. and state and local government agencies, respectively. Our ability to compete successfully for and retain business with the U.S. government is highly dependent on cost-effective performance and compliance with complex procurement laws. Historically, federal procurement laws required government agencies to purchase furniture products from Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated. If these or similar laws would be re-instituted, it would make it more difficult for us to sell our furniture to agencies and departments of the U.S. government.. 13. In addition, the U.S. government typically can terminate or modify its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and impede our ability to compete in the future for contracts and orders. Furthermore, if we were found to have committed fraud or certain criminal offenses, we could be suspended or debarred from all further government contracting.. Given the significance of our governmental business, we are sensitive to decreases in governmental spending. Federal, state and local government budgets have experienced deficits recently and are under significant pressure to reduce spending. These spending pressures have resulted in, and may continue to result in, decreased furniture spending, which has negatively impacted (and may continue to negatively impact) our governmental sales.. Our efforts to diversify our sources of revenue may not be effective and may expose us to new risks.. Historically, the majority of our revenues were derived from the sales of office systems in North America. We have pursued a strategy to diversify our sources of revenue and reduce our dependence on North American office system sales by, for example, growing our seating, international, ancillary and specialty businesses. While we believe that this strategy enables us to better maintain and grow our sales and profitability during cyclical ups and downs in the industry, there can be no assurance that this diversification strategy will be effective in achieving these goals. Our diversification strategy involves the continued expansion of our specialty businesses, and business growth internationally, which may expose us to business risks that we have not experienced. We also may incur significant costs in pursuing our diversification strategy, and those costs may not be fully offset by increased revenues associated with new business lines.. We operate with leverage, and a significant amount of cash will be required to service our indebtedness. Restrictions imposed by the terms of our indebtedness may limit our operating and financial flexibility.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total consolidated outstanding debt of approximately $192.0 million under our credit facility.. On January 22, 2018, we amended and extended our existing credit facility (\"Existing Credit Facility\"), dated May 20, 2014, with a new $750.0 million credit facility maturing on January 23, 2023, consisting of a revolving commitment in the amount of $400.0 million, a US Dollar term loan commitment in the amount of $250.0 million, and a multicurrency term loan commitment of \20081.7 million. The Amended Credit Agreement (\"Amended Credit Agreement\") also includes an option to increase the size of the credit facility or incur incremental term loans by up to an additional $250.0 million, subject to the satisfaction of certain terms and conditions. The Amended Credit Agreement is described in more detail in \"Capital Resources and Liquidity\" under Item 7 as well as in Note 12, Indebtedness, and Note 21, Subsequent Events, to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. At December 31, 2017, if we were to borrow the maximum available to us under Existing Credit Facility and those of our foreign subsidiaries, we would have total consolidated outstanding debt of approximately $459.6 million. The high level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to holders of our common stock, given that:. •a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to fund scheduled payments of principal and debt service and will not be available for other purposes;. •our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development or acquisitions may be limited by the terms of our credit facility; and. •the terms of our credit facility also impose other operating and financial restrictions on us, which could limit our flexibility in reacting to changes in our industry or in economic conditions generally.. Our Amended Credit Agreement prevents us and our subsidiaries from incurring any additional indebtedness other than (i) borrowings under our existing credit facility; (ii) certain types of indebtedness that may be incurred subject to aggregate dollar limitations identified in the credit facility, including, without limitation, purchase money indebtedness and capital lease obligations, indebtedness incurred in connection with a permitted acquisition, and loans obtained through an expansion of the facility, all of which cannot exceed $250.0 million at any time, and (iii) other types of indebtedness that are not limited to specific dollar limitations, such as indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business and unsecured, subordinated indebtedness. The aggregate amount of indebtedness that we may incur pursuant to these exceptions is further limited by the financial covenants in our credit facility and, therefore, will depend on our future results of operations and cannot be determined at this time. As a result of the financial covenants, our capacity under our credit facility could be reduced if our trailing consolidated EBITDA (as defined by our credit agreement) declines due to deteriorating market conditions or poor performance. Furthermore, although we may incur unlimited amounts of certain types of indebtedness, subject to compliance with these financial covenants, the amount of indebtedness that we may be able to incur will depend on the terms on which such types of debt financing are available to us, if available at all.. 14. As a result of the foregoing, we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might further our growth strategy or otherwise be considered beneficial to us. A breach of any of the covenants in our credit facility could result in a default thereunder. If payments to the lenders under our credit facility were to be accelerated, our assets could be insufficient to repay in full the indebtedness under our credit facility and our other liabilities. Any such acceleration could also result in a foreclosure on all or substantially all of our subsidiaries' assets, which would have a negative impact on the value of our common stock and jeopardize our ability to continue as a going concern.. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms.. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including capital improvements, tooling, information technology upgrades and new product development. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to meet these requirements and cover any losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could result in dilution to our stockholders, and the securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital.. An inability to protect our intellectual property could have a significant impact on our business.. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights, both in the United States and in foreign countries, through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Because of the differences in foreign trademark, copyright, patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual property rights do not generally receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they do in the United States. In some parts of the world, we have limited protections, if any, for our intellectual property. Our ability to compete effectively with our competitors depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property. The degree of protection offered by the claims of the various patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks may not be broad enough to provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantages to us, and patents, copyrights, trademarks or service marks may not be issued on our pending or contemplated applications. In addition, not all of our products are covered by patents or similar intellectual property protections. It is also possible that our patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks may be challenged, invalidated, canceled, narrowed or circumvented.. In the past, certain of our products have been copied and sold by others. We try to enforce our intellectual property rights, but we have to make choices about where and how we pursue enforcement and where we seek and maintain intellectual property protection. In many cases, the cost of enforcing our rights is substantial, and we may determine that the costs of enforcement outweigh the potential benefits. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property with respect to our significant current or proposed products, our competitors may be able to sell copies of our products, which could adversely affect our ability to sell our original products and could also result in competitive pricing pressures, which may negatively affect our profitability.. If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs and may have to redesign or discontinue an infringing product.. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed upon third parties' intellectual property rights. Companies operating in our industry routinely seek patent protection for their product designs, and many of our principal competitors have large patent portfolios. Prior to launching major new products in our key markets, we normally evaluate existing intellectual property rights. However, our competitors may have filed for patent protection which is not, at the time of our evaluation, a matter of public knowledge. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing upon third parties' intellectual property rights may not be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could (i) be expensive and time consuming to defend; (ii) cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign, reengineer, or rebrand our products or packaging, if feasible; or (iv) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property.. 15. We could be required to incur substantial costs to comply with environmental requirements. Violations of, and liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations may increase our costs or require us to change our business practices.. Our past and present ownership and operation of manufacturing plants are subject to extensive and changing federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to discharges to air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. As a result, we are involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and inquiries relating to environmental matters and could become subject to fines or penalties related thereto. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws, may require additional expenditures by us, some of which may be material. We have been identified as a potentially responsible party pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, for remediation costs associated with waste disposal sites previously used by us. In general, CERCLA can impose liability for costs to investigate and remediate contamination without regard to fault or the legality of disposal and, under certain circumstances, liability may be joint and several, resulting in one party being held responsible for the entire obligation. Liability may also include damages for harm to natural resources. The remediation costs and our allocated share at some of these CERCLA sites are unknown. We may also be subject to claims for personal injury or contribution relating to CERCLA sites. We reserve amounts for such matters when expenditures are probable and reasonably estimable.. We are subject to potential labor disruptions, which could have a significant impact on our business.. Certain of our employees located in Grand Rapids, Michigan and Italy are represented by unions. The collective bargaining agreement for our Grand Rapids location expires April 28, 2018. We have also had attempts to unionize our other North American manufacturing locations, which to date have been unsuccessful. We have experienced a number of brief work stoppages at our facilities in Italy as a result of national and local issues. While we believe that we have good relations with our workforce, we may experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future, and further unionization efforts may be successful. Any prolonged work stoppage could have an adverse effect on our reputation, our vendor relations and our dealership network. Moreover, because substantially all of our products are manufactured to order, we do not carry finished goods inventory that could mitigate the effects of a prolonged work stoppage.. Product defects could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our customers may encounter product defects that could potentially arise in the course of our development of new products or due to manufacturing problems. If product defects do arise, we could incur product warranty costs, product liability costs and costs associated with recalling and repairing defective products. While we maintain a reserve for our product warranty costs based on estimates of the costs that may be incurred under the warranties on all of our products, our actual warranty costs may exceed this reserve, resulting in a need to increase the amounts accrued for warranty costs. We also maintain product liability and other insurance coverage that we believe to be generally in accordance with industry practices, but our insurance coverage does not extend to field visits to repair, retrofit or replace defective products, or to product recalls. As a result, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us fully against substantial claims and costs that may arise from product defects, particularly if we have a large number of defective products that we must repair, retrofit, replace or recall. Sales of our products could be adversely affected by excessive warranty claims, product recalls and adverse perceptions of product quality. As a result of these factors, product defects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may be vulnerable to the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase our expenses.. We primarily sell our products and report our financial results in U.S. dollars, but we generate some of our revenues and pay some of our expenses in other currencies. Paying our expenses in other currencies can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those expenses in U.S. dollar terms, which affects our profits.. In the future, any foreign currency appreciation relative to the U.S. dollar would increase our expenses that are denominated in that currency. Additionally, as we report currency in the U.S. dollar, our financial position is affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we have operations relative to the strength of the U.S. dollar. The principal foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the Canadian dollar and the Euro. In addition, our January 2018 acquisition of Muuto will increase our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Approximately 12.6% of our revenues in 2017 and 25.9% of our cost of goods sold in 2017 were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we review our foreign currency exposure and evaluate whether we should hedge our exposure.. 16. Pension costs or funding requirements could increase at a higher-than-anticipated rate.. We administer two defined benefit pension plans, which hold significant amounts of equity securities. Changes in interest rates or other plan assumptions or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. This could cause volatility in our benefits costs which could increase future funding requirements of our pension plans and have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our future funding obligations also are affected by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (\"PPA\"), which established certain required funding targets. Volatility in the economic environment and/or a decline in the equity markets could cause the value of investment assets held by our pension plans to decline. As a result, we may be required to increase the amount of our cash contributions to our pension plans in order to meet the funding level requirements of the PPA.. If we fail to protect the integrity and security of our information technology systems and confidential information, it could adversely affect our business.. We rely upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage numerous aspects of our business and provide information to management. We also receive certain customer-specific data, including credit card information, in connection with orders placed through our various businesses, including our e-commerce websites and our retail store. The secure operation of these information technology systems, and the processing and maintenance of this information, is critical to our business operations and strategy. These systems are vulnerable to, among other things, damage and interruption from power loss or natural disasters, computer system and network failures, loss of telecommunications services, physical and electronic loss of data, security breaches, hackers and employee misuse. We may face unauthorized attempts by hackers seeking to harm us or, as a result of industrial espionage, to penetrate our network security and gain access to our systems, steal intellectual or other proprietary data, including design, sales or personally identifiable information, introduce malicious software or interrupt our internal systems, manufacturing or distribution. Though we attempt to prevent and detect these incidents, we may not be successful. Any disruption of our information technology systems, or access to or disclosure of information stored in or transmitted by our systems, could result in legal claims and damages, loss of intellectual property or other proprietary information (including customer data), disrupt operations, result in competitive disadvantage and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In addition, states and the federal government are increasingly enacting laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. Also, as our business expands globally, we are subject to data privacy and other similar laws in various foreign jurisdictions. If we are the target of a cybersecurity attack resulting in unauthorized disclosure of our customer data, we may be required to undertake costly notification procedures. Compliance with these laws will likely increase the costs of doing business. Further, if we fail to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies, which could harm our business.. We are in the process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning system, and problems with the design or implementation of this system could interfere with our business and operations.. We are engaged in a multi-year implementation of a new global enterprise resource planning system (ERP). The ERP is designed to accurately maintain the company's books and records and provide information to the company's management team important to the operation of the business. The company's ERP has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant human and financial resources. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP without experiencing delays, increased costs and other difficulties. If we are unable to successfully design and implement the new ERP system as planned, our financial positions, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted.. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions.. One of our key operating strategies is to selectively pursue acquisitions. We have made a number of acquisitions in the past and we expect that a portion of our future growth may come from such transactions. We evaluate potential acquisitions on an ongoing basis. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices we consider attractive. Further, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses could be negatively impaired because of difficulties, costs and delays that may include:. •Negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments;. • Unforeseen difficulties, costs or complications in integrating the companies' operations, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate;. •Unanticipated incompatibility of systems and operating methods;. • Resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures;. 17. •The diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities;. •Unforeseen difficulties in operating acquired business in parallel with similar businesses that we operated previously;. •Unforeseen difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before;. •Unanticipated difficulty of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously;. •The retention of key employees and management of acquired businesses;. •The coordination of geographically separate organizations;. •The coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; and. •Possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of a combined company.. In connection with any acquisition that we make, there may be liabilities that we fail to discover or that we inadequately assess. Acquired entities may not operate profitably or result in improved operating performance. Additionally, we may not realize anticipated synergies. If our acquisitions perform poorly, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. Tax matters, including the changes in corporate tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposing of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Our effective tax rates, and tax payments, could be affected by numerous factors, including but not limited to entry into new geographies, changes to our existing business and operations, acquisitions, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and the related valuation, and changes in relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") which represents a significant overhaul of the U.S. federal tax code. The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including but not limited to reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. The Tax Act requires judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the Tax Act and significant estimates in the related calculations. The Department of Treasury, the Internal Revenue Service, and other standard-setting bodies have not implemented all relevant regulations or issued substantive guidance to-date; therefore, these standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Act will be applied that may differ from our current interpretation. We are continuing to evaluate the overall impact of this tax legislation on our operations and overall income tax position. See Note 17, Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for further discussion of the Tax Act.. We need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax laws and regulations. The enactment of or increases in tariffs, or other changes in application or interpretation of the Tax Act, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on results of operations.. Any attempt by the Administration to withdraw from or materially modify NAFTA and certain other international trade agreements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant portion of our business activities are conducted in foreign countries, including Canada and Mexico. The current Administration has made comments suggesting that certain existing international trade agreements may change, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"). At this time, it remains unclear what the new Administration will or will not do with respect to these international trade agreements. If the Administration takes action to withdraw from or materially modify NAFTA or certain other international trade agreements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of \"blank check\" preferred stock. Without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. With these rights, preferred stockholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for reelection each year. Having a staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors.. 18. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an \"interested stockholder,\" we may not enter into a \"business combination\" with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, \"interested stockholder\" means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. Upon any change in control, the lenders under our credit facility would have the right to require us to repay all of our outstanding obligations under the facility.. Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value.. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which may be unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased them due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects and other factors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects, including actual or perceived fluctuations in the demand for our products;. •our announcements or our competitors' announcements of new products;. •the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. •strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic investments, or restructurings;. •new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. •changes in our growth rates or our competitors' growth rates;. •our inability to raise additional capital;. • conditions of our industry as a result of changes in financial markets or general economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events;. •sales of common stock by us or members of our management team; and. • changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally.. 19"
