[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.. There are risks and uncertainties that can affect our business.  The significant risk factors are discussed below.  The following information should be read together with \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the \"Outlook\" section in Item 7 of this Form 10-K, which include forward-looking statements and factors that could cause us not to realize our goals or meet our expectations.. COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT. The operating environment for the food retailing industry continues to be characterized by intense price competition, aggressive expansion, increasing fragmentation of retail and online formats, entry of non-traditional competitors and market consolidation.  In addition, evolving customer preferences and the advancement of online, delivery, ship to home, and mobile channels in our industry enhance the competitive environment.. We believe our Restock Kroger plan provides a balanced approach that will enable us to meet the wide-ranging needs and expectations of our customers.  However, we may be unsuccessful in implementing Restock Kroger, which could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, our market share and business growth, and our operations and results.  The nature and extent to which our competitors respond to the evolving and competitive industry by developing and implementing their competitive strategies could adversely affect our profitability.. PRODUCT SAFETY. Customers count on Kroger to provide them with safe food and drugs and other merchandise.  Concerns regarding the safety of the products that we sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  Any issue regarding the safety of items we sell, regardless of the cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. LABOR RELATIONS. A majority of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions, and our relationship with those unions, including a prolonged work stoppage affecting a substantial number of locations, could have a material adverse effect on our results.. We are a party to approximately 360 collective bargaining agreements.  Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur if we are unable to negotiate new contracts with labor unions.  A prolonged work stoppage affecting a substantial number of locations could have a material adverse effect on our results.  Further, if we are unable to control health care, pension and wage costs, or if we have insufficient operational flexibility under our collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. 4. DATA AND TECHNOLOGY. Our business is increasingly dependent on information technology systems that are complex and vital to continuing operations, resulting in an expansion of our technological presence and corresponding risk exposure.  If we were to experience difficulties maintaining or operating existing systems or implementing new systems, we could incur significant losses due to disruptions in our operations.. Through our sales and marketing activities, we collect and store some personal information that our customers provide to us. We also gather and retain information about our associates in the normal course of business. Under certain circumstances, we may share information with vendors that assist us in conducting our business, as required by law, or otherwise in accordance with our privacy policy.. Our technology systems are vulnerable to disruption from circumstances beyond our control.  Cyber-attackers may attempt to access information stored in our or our vendors' systems in order to misappropriate confidential customer or business information.  Although we have implemented procedures to protect our information, and require our vendors to do the same, we cannot be certain that our security systems will successfully defend against rapidly evolving, increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks as they become more difficult to detect and defend against.  Further, a Kroger associate, a contractor or other third party with whom we do business may in the future circumvent our security measures in order to obtain information or may inadvertently cause a breach involving information.  In addition, hardware, software or applications we may use may have inherent defects or could be inadvertently or intentionally applied or used in a way that could compromise our information security.. Our continued investment in our information technology systems may not effectively insulate us from potential attacks, breaches or disruptions to our business operations, which could result in a loss of customers or business information, negative publicity, damage to our reputation, and exposure to claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card associations, associates and other persons.  Any such events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and may not be covered by our insurance. In addition, compliance with privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes and may require us to devote significant management resources to address these issues.. Additionally, on October 1, 2015, the payment card industry shifted liability for certain transactions to retailers who are not able to accept Europay, MasterCard, Visa (EMV) transactions. We completed the implementation of the EMV technology for our supermarket transactions, and have a plan in place to complete implementation for our fuel centers prior to the liability shift for fuel centers, which will occur in 2020.. INDEBTEDNESS. Our indebtedness could reduce our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, mergers and acquisitions or other purposes and could make us vulnerable to future economic downturns as well as competitive pressures.  If debt markets do not permit us to refinance certain maturing debt, we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness.  Changes in our credit ratings, or in the interest rate environment, could have an adverse effect on our financing costs and structure.. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND INSURANCE. From time to time, we are a party to legal proceedings, including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury, antitrust claims and other proceedings.  Other legal proceedings purport to be brought as class actions on behalf of similarly situated parties.  Some of these proceedings could result in a substantial loss to Kroger.  We estimate our exposure to these legal proceedings and establish accruals for the estimated liabilities, where it is reasonably possible to estimate and where an adverse outcome is probable.  Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial uncertainties.  Adverse outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in our evaluations or predictions about the proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.  Please also refer to the \"Legal Proceedings\" section in Item 3 and the \"Litigation\" section in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. 5. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liability for workers' compensation, automobile and general liability, property, director and officers' liability, and employee health care benefits.  Any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability.   Changes in legal claims, trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, insolvency of insurance carriers, and changes in discount rates could all affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. MULTI-EMPLOYER PENSION OBLIGATIONS. As discussed in more detail below in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies-Multi-Employer Pension Plans,\" Kroger contributes to several multi-employer pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements with unions representing employees covered by those agreements.  We believe that the present value of actuarially accrued liabilities in most of these multi-employer plans substantially exceeds the value of the assets held in trust to pay benefits, and we expect that Kroger's contributions to those funds will increase over the next few years.  A significant increase to those funding requirements could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  Despite the fact that the pension obligations of these funds are not the liability or responsibility of the Company, except as noted below, there is a risk that the agencies that rate our outstanding debt instruments could view the underfunded nature of these plans unfavorably when determining their ratings on our debt securities.  Any downgrading of our debt ratings likely would adversely affect our cost of borrowing and access to capital.. We also currently bear the investment risk of two of the larger multi-employer pension plans in which we participate.  In addition, we have been designated as the named fiduciary of these funds with sole investment authority of the assets of these funds.  If investment results fail to meet our expectations, we could be  required to make additional contributions to fund a portion of or the entire shortfall, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. INTEGRATION OF NEW BUSINESS. We enter into mergers and acquisitions with expected benefits including, among other things, operating efficiencies, procurement savings, innovation, sharing of best practices and increased market share that may allow for future growth.  Achieving the anticipated benefits may be subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including, without limitation, whether unique corporate cultures will work collaboratively in an efficient and effective manner, the coordination of geographically separate organizations, the possibility of imprecise assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies and the integration process, unforeseen expenses and delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace.  We could also encounter unforeseen transaction and integration-related costs or other circumstances such as unforeseen liabilities or other issues.  Many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention.  If we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or cash flows.. FUEL. We sell a significant amount of fuel, which could face increased regulation and demand could be affected by concerns about the effect of emissions on the environment as well as retail price increases.  We are unable to predict future regulations, environmental effects, political unrest, acts of terrorism and other matters that may affect the cost and availability of fuel, and how our customers will react, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. 6. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. Our operating results could be materially impacted by changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer confidence and spending, including discretionary spending.  Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, changes in housing market conditions, the availability of credit, interest rates, tax rates, the impact of natural disasters or acts of terrorism, and other matters could reduce consumer spending.  Increased fuel prices could also have an effect on consumer spending and on our costs of producing and procuring products that we sell.  We are unable to predict how the global economy and financial markets will perform.  If the global economy and financial markets do not perform as we expect, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. WEATHER AND NATURAL DISASTERS. A large number of our stores and distribution facilities are geographically located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts and earthquakes.  Weather conditions and natural disasters could disrupt our operations at one or more of our facilities, interrupt the delivery of products to our stores, substantially increase the cost of products, including supplies and materials and substantially increase the cost of energy needed to operate our facilities or deliver products to our facilities.  Adverse weather and natural disasters could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. GOVERNMENT REGULATION. Our stores are subject to various laws, regulations, and administrative practices that affect our business. We must comply with numerous provisions regulating, among other things, health and sanitation standards, food labeling and safety, equal employment opportunity, minimum wages, and licensing for the sale of food, drugs, and alcoholic beverages. We cannot predict future laws, regulations, interpretations, administrative orders, or applications, or the effect they will have on our operations. They could, however, significantly increase the cost of doing business.  They also could require the reformulation of some of the products that we sell (or manufacture for sale to third parties) to meet new standards.  We also could be required to recall or discontinue the sale of products that cannot be reformulated.  These changes could result in additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling, or scientific substantiation.  Any or all of these requirements could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows."
