[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Below are certain risk factors associated with our business.  See also certain risk factors discussed in Item 7- \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.\"  In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or pay dividends on our common stock or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities.. Demand for, and prices of, certain of our products are influenced by changing market conditions for our products, which may result in reduced earnings or in operating losses.. Our sales and profitability is largely dependent on the TiO2 industry.  In 2017, 94% of our sales were attributable to sales of TiO2.  TiO2 is used in many \"quality of life\" products for which demand historically has been linked to global, regional and local gross domestic product and discretionary spending, which can be negatively impacted by regional and world events or economic conditions.  Such events are likely to cause a decrease in demand for our products and, as a result, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Pricing within the global TiO2 industry over the long term is cyclical and changes in economic conditions, especially in Western industrialized nations, can significantly impact our earnings and operating cash flows.  Historically, the markets for many of our products have experienced alternating periods of increasing and decreasing demand.  Relative changes in the selling prices for our products are one of the main factors that affect the level of our profitability.  In periods of increasing demand, our selling prices and profit margins generally will tend to increase, while in periods of decreasing demand our selling prices and profit margins generally tend to decrease.  In addition, pricing may affect customer inventory levels as customers may from time to time accelerate purchases of TiO2 in advance of anticipated price increases or defer purchases of TiO2 in advance of anticipated price decreases.  Our ability to further increase capacity without additional investment in greenfield or brownfield capacity increases may be limited and as a result, our profitability may become even more dependent upon the selling prices of our products.. The TiO2 industry is concentrated and highly competitive and we face price pressures in the markets in which we operate, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses.. The global market in which we operate our business is concentrated with the top six TiO2 producers accounting for approximately two-thirds of the world's production capacity and is highly competitive.  Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service.  Some of our competitors may be able to. 13. drive down prices for our products if their costs are lower than our costs.  In addition, some of our competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions.  Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements.  Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers may result in reduced demand for our products or make it more difficult for us to compete with our competitors.  The occurrence of any of these events could result in reduced earnings or operating losses.. Higher costs or limited availability of our raw materials may reduce our earnings and decrease our liquidity.  In addition, many of our raw material contracts contain fixed quantities we are required to purchase.. The number of sources for and availability of certain raw materials is specific to the particular geographical region in which a facility is located.  For example, titanium-containing feedstocks suitable for use in our TiO2 facilities are available from a limited number of suppliers around the world.  Political and economic instability in the countries from which we purchase our raw material supplies could adversely affect their availability.  If our worldwide vendors were unable to meet their contractual obligations and we were unable to obtain necessary raw materials, we could incur higher costs for raw materials or may be required to reduce production levels.  We experienced significantly higher ore costs in 2012 which carried over into 2013.  We have seen moderation in the purchase cost of third-party feedstock ore since 2013 through the first half of 2017; however, the cost of third-party feedstock ore we procured in the last half of 2017 is slightly higher as compared to the first half of 2017. We may also experience higher operating costs such as energy costs, which could affect our profitability.  We may not always be able to increase our selling prices to offset the impact of any higher costs or reduced production levels, which could reduce our earnings and decrease our liquidity.. We have long-term supply contracts that provide for our TiO2 feedstock requirements that currently expire through 2019.  While we believe we will be able to renew these contracts, there can be no assurance we will be successful in renewing them or in obtaining long-term extensions to them prior to expiration. Our current agreements (including those entered into through January 2018) require us to purchase certain minimum quantities of feedstock with minimum purchase commitments aggregating approximately $383 million in years subsequent to December 31, 2017.  In addition, we have other long-term supply and service contracts that provide for various raw materials and services. These agreements require us to purchase certain minimum quantities or services with minimum purchase commitments aggregating approximately $128 million at December 31, 2017.  Our commitments under these contracts could adversely affect our financial results if we significantly reduce our production and were unable to modify the contractual commitments.. Our leverage may impair our financial condition or limit our ability to operate our businesses.. As of December 31, 2017, our total consolidated debt was approximately $474.5 million, which relates primarily to Senior Notes issued in September 2017.  Our level of debt could have important consequences to our stockholders and creditors, including:. •  making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our liabilities;. •  increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions;. •  requiring that a portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, which reduces our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends on our common stock, acquisitions or general corporate requirements;. •  limiting the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us;. •  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate requirements;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and. •  placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged competitors.. 14. Indebtedness outstanding under our revolving North American credit facility and revolving European credit facility accrues interest at variable rates.  To the extent market interest rates rise, the cost of our debt would increase, adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition to our indebtedness, at December 31, 2017 we are party to various lease and other agreements (including feedstock ore purchase contracts and other long-term supply and service contracts, as discussed above) pursuant to which, along with our indebtedness, we are committed to pay approximately $433 million in 2018.  Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our future ability to generate cash flow.  To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.  In addition, our ability to borrow funds under our revolving credit facilities in the future will, in some instances, depend in part on our ability to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial covenants contained in the applicable credit agreement.. Our business may not generate cash flows from operating activities sufficient to enable us to pay our debts when they become due and to fund our other liquidity needs.  As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt before maturity.  We may not be able to refinance any of our debt in a timely manner on favorable terms, if at all, in the current credit markets.  Any inability to generate sufficient cash flows or to refinance our debt on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. As a global business, we are subject to risks associated with doing business outside the United States.. We have global operations and derive a large portion of our sales from customers outside the United States.  Accordingly, our international operations or those of our international customers could be substantially affected by a number of risks arising with operating an international business, including trade barriers, tariffs, exchange controls, economic and political conditions, compliance with a variety of non-United States laws and regulations (including income tax laws and regulations) or compliance with United States law and regulations in respect to doing business internationally, limitations on restrictions on the repatriation of non-United States earnings to the United States, and difficulty in enforcing agreements or other legal rights.  Our operations are also subject to the effects of global competition.   These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in exchange rates and interest rates can adversely affect our net sales, profits and cash flows.. We operate our businesses in several different countries and sell our products worldwide.  For example, during 2017, approximately one-half of our sales volumes were sold into European markets.  The majority (but not all) of our sales from our operations outside the United States are denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar, primarily the euro, other major European currencies and the Canadian dollar.  Therefore, we are exposed to risks related to the need to convert currencies we receive from the sale of our products into the currencies required to pay for certain of our operating costs and expenses and other liabilities (including indebtedness), all of which could result in future losses depending on fluctuations in currency exchange rates and affect the comparability of our results of operations between periods.. If our intellectual property were to be declared invalid, or copied by or become known to by competitors, or if our competitors were to develop similar or superior intellectual property or technology, our ability to compete could be adversely impacted.. Protection of our intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks and tradenames, is important to our business and our competitive position.  We endeavor to protect our intellectual property rights in key jurisdictions in which our products are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which our products are imported.  However, we may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property in key jurisdictions.  Although we own and have applied for numerous patents and trademarks throughout the world, we may have to rely on judicial enforcement of our patents and other proprietary rights.  Our patents and other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, and rendered unenforceable or otherwise compromised.  A failure to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Similarly, third parties may assert claims against us and our customers and distributors alleging our products infringe upon third-party intellectual property rights.. 15. Although it is our practice to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our proprietary expertise and other trade secrets, these agreements may not provide sufficient protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or adequate remedies for breaches of such agreements may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of such trade secrets and know-how.  We also may not be able to readily detect breaches of such agreements.  The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary technology, know-how or trade secrets could result in a material loss of our competitive position, which could lead to significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share.. If we must take legal action to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, any suits or proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of resources and management's attention, and we may not prevail in any such suits or proceedings.  A failure to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The nature of our operations exposes us to possible litigation claims, including disputes with customers and suppliers and matters relating to, among other things, antitrust, product liability, intellectual property, employment and environmental claims.  It is possible that judgments could be rendered against us in these or other types of cases for which we could be uninsured or not covered by indemnity, or which may be beyond the amounts that we currently have reserved or anticipate incurring for such matters.  Some of the lawsuits may seek fines or penalties and damages in large amounts, or seek to restrict our business activities.  Because of the uncertain nature of litigation and coverage decisions, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters or whether insurance claims may mitigate any damages ultimately determined to be owed by us.  Any liability we might incur in the future could be material.  In addition, litigation is very costly, and the costs associated with defending litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Global climate change legislation could negatively impact our financial results or limit our ability to operate our businesses.. We operate production facilities in several countries.  In many of the countries in which we operate, legislation has been passed, or proposed legislation is being considered, to limit greenhouse gases through various means, including emissions permits and/or energy taxes.  In several of our production facilities, we consume large amounts of energy, primarily electricity and natural gas.  To date, the permit system in effect in the various countries in which we operate has not had a material adverse effect on our financial results.  However, if further greenhouse gas legislation were to be enacted in one or more countries, it could negatively impact our future results from operations through increased costs of production, particularly as it relates to our energy requirements or our need to obtain emissions permits.  If such increased costs of production were to materialize, we may be unable to pass price increases onto our customers to compensate for increased production costs, which may decrease our liquidity, operating income and results of operations.. Technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We rely on information technology systems to manage, process and analyze data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of our products to and from our plants. We receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of and collections from our customers, and manage the accounting for and payment to our vendors.  In this regard, in January 2017 we implemented a new enterprise resource planning system covering certain finance processes (principally general ledger, accounts receivable and accounts payable), and in January 2018 we implemented the remaining portion of such enterprise resource planning system covering sales, procurement, manufacturing and plant maintenance.  Although we have systems and procedures in place to protect our information technology systems, there can be no assurance that such systems and procedures would be sufficiently effective.   Therefore, any of our information technology systems may be susceptible to outages, disruptions or destruction as well as cyber security breaches or attacks, resulting in a disruption of our business operations, injury to people, harm to the environment or our assets, and/or the inability to access our information technology. 16. systems.  If any of these events were to occur, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected."
