[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business. If any of these risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not significant, develops into an actual event, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline.. Our new AgilePlans pricing model for our mini-VSAT broadband business may adversely affect our revenues on a short-term or long-term basis.. In April 2017, we launched AgilePlans, our all-inclusive connectivity-as-a-service, or CaaS, usage-based pricing model for our mini-VSAT broadband service. Under this CaaS model, we charge subscribers a monthly fee in exchange for which we provide satellite communication hardware, shipping and installation, maintenance and support, airtime and voice services, a service management portal and certain basic content services. In 2017, AgilePlans revenue comprised less than 1% of our total revenue. Under this new model, we retain ownership of our satellite equipment and do not sell it to subscribers; accordingly, we anticipate that, to the extent that customers adopt this new subscription model, our revenues from product sales will decline, and our provision of this equipment to subscribers will increase our capital expenditures, which over time will increase our operating expenses as we depreciate these assets. Similarly, we anticipate that revenues from other services included in the plans, which have previously been sold separately, will also decline. Although our goal with the new pricing model is to increase the number of subscribers and thereby increase our overall mobile connectivity revenues, the pricing model is new and untested in our markets and may have unanticipated consequences for our business. There can be no assurance that customers will adopt the new pricing model or that revenues from our AgilePlans will offset the loss of other revenue and increase our overall mobile connectivity revenues. Accordingly, the introduction of this new pricing model may lead to lower overall revenues in our mobile connectivity segment on either a short-term or long-term basis. Further, because we retain ownership of the satellite communications equipment provided to subscribers under the AgilePlans, we may incur increased costs seeking to recover equipment from any customers who may default on payment or transition to another service. Adoption of the same or similar pricing models by competitors may lead to significant price competition, which could also adversely affect our revenues.. Our launch of a new high-throughput satellite network will cause us to incur significant additional operating costs and may create technical challenges and management distraction that may adversely affect our operating profit.. On November 1, 2017, we announced that we are launching a new high-throughput satellite, or HTS, communications service that will make use of Intelsat's Global IntelsatOne Flex managed services and will also incorporate SKY-Perfect JSAT capacity. We currently operate a global network of leased satellite transponders and terrestrial teleports in cooperation with ViaSat, Inc. We anticipate that the HTS network may eventually significantly reduce costs and enhance the capabilities of the satellite communications services that we offer to our customers. In the short term, however, we expect that the launch of the HTS network will result in additional operating costs resulting from the need to operate both the HTS network and the legacy network. The operation of the HTS network may also present technical challenges arising from Intelsat's use of the relatively new iDirect Velocity technology for the coding and modulation of satellite signals. Further, the operational requirements associated with the HTS network are likely to require significant attention from our management, marketing, sales, and technical teams, potentially distracting them from other opportunities to further develop our services and increase our customer base. Finally, our current focus on the HTS network creates potential risks with respect to the continued operation of our existing satellite communications network and our contractual arrangement with ViaSat and satellite operators. The contractual arrangement with ViaSat and satellite operators will need to be phased out over a period of several years, but the reliability of the existing satellite network will need to be maintained during the entirety of the wind-down period.. 17. Table of Contents. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles applicable to us.. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP, are subject to modification and interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, the SEC, and other bodies formed to promulgate and interpret accounting principles. For example, in May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Codification Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which substantially revised revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. We implemented this new revenue standard in the first quarter of 2018. The adoption of this new standard will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, including expected delays in recognition of revenue for certain mini-VSAT Broadband services and hardware contracts and expected balance sheet impacts relating to accounts receivable, contract assets and contract liabilities. These or other changes in accounting principles are expected to adversely affect our reported financial results, including a meaningful increase to our accumulated deficit upon adoption. Moreover, our system of internal controls was originally designed to address previous standards for revenue recognition (Topic 605), and the modifications we have made to our internal controls to address the new standard may be insufficient to implement the new standard accurately or in full. Any insufficiencies or errors in implementation could lead to mistakes in, or delays in filing, our consolidated financial statements as well as deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, any of which could lead to additional accounting, legal and other expenses, potential restatements, loss of investor confidence, enforcement actions by governmental authorities, securities class actions and other adverse consequences.. Our revenues and results of operations have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by economic turmoil in the markets we serve, political events, macroeconomic conditions, credit tightening and associated declines in consumer and enterprise spending.. Economic conditions in the markets we serve have experienced significant turmoil over the last several years, including slow economic activity, tight credit markets, inflation and deflation concerns, low consumer confidence, limited capital spending, adverse business conditions, war and refugee crises in the Middle East and Europe, terrorist attacks, the United Kingdom vote to leave the European Union, the change in presidential administration and government priorities, and liquidity concerns. These conditions can make it difficult for businesses, governments and consumers to accurately forecast and plan future activities. Many governments, including the US government, are experiencing significant deficits that have caused and may continue to cause them to curtail spending significantly and/or reallocate funds away from defense programs. There can be no assurances that government programs to improve economic conditions will be effective. As a result of these and other factors, customers and government entities could continue to slow or suspend spending on our products and services. We may also incur increased credit losses and need to further increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, which would have a negative impact on our earnings and financial condition.. We cannot predict the timing, duration, or ultimate impact of the turmoil in our markets. We expect our business to continue to be adversely impacted by this turmoil to varying degrees and for varying amounts of time, in all our geographic markets.. Decline in oil prices may continue to adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. Oil prices have declined significantly since the peak in 2014. West Texas Intermediate oil prices dropped from a high of $107.26 per barrel on June 20, 2014 to a low of $26.21 per barrel on February 11, 2016. Customers of our mobile satellite business include offshore support vessel companies that participate in or depend on the offshore oil industry. Although prices have recovered somewhat in recent periods, the declines in worldwide oil prices have had a significant impact on the financial performance of companies in this sector of the economy, and as a result demand for new products and services has declined severely during and since 2015 as they have sought to reduce expenditures. In addition, we have experienced a higher customer churn rate primarily attributed to customers that operate in this sector, where the sale, decommissioning, or laying up of vessels has led to a higher rate of airtime plan terminations and suspensions. These trends could continue to limit or reduce demand for our mobile connectivity products and services from companies in this sector, which could continue to adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. 18. Table of Contents. Our financial performance is impacted by U.S. government contracts, which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and termination.. We have historically sold a substantial portion of our TACNAV and FOG products and services to the U.S. government and its contractors. We are unable to predict the impact on our business of the change in Presidential administration and recently enacted tax reform, which may lead to significant budget deficits and an overall reduction in federal spending. A reduction in sales to the U.S. government or its contractors, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. Changes in the White House and the composition of Congress may disrupt or delay appropriations for upcoming periods. If appropriations for any program in which we participate become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such contract or subcontract. When a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the U.S. government's fiscal year, which has become more frequent in recent years, Congress may pass a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but that typically does not authorize new spending initiatives, during this period. Appropriations can also be impacted by other budgetary considerations, such as failure to increase the statutory debt ceiling of the U.S. government. During such periods (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), delays can occur in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and these delays can affect our results of operations during the period of delay.. Appropriations can also be affected by legislation that addresses larger budgetary issues of the U.S. government. For example, future federal sequestration measures could continue to adversely affect federal spending across the U.S. government, including the Department of Defense, and we expect that these measures will continue to limit or reduce defense spending.. In addition, U.S. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government's convenience or for default based on performance. Government customers can also decline to exercise previously disclosed contract options. If one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. If one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and adversely affect our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. Furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the U.S. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor.. We must generate a certain level of sales of the TracPhone V-IP series products and our mini-VSAT Broadband service in order to maintain or improve our service gross margins.. As a result of our mini-VSAT Broadband network infrastructure, our cost of service sales includes certain fixed costs that do not generally vary with the volume of service sales, and we have almost no ability to reduce these fixed costs in the short term. These fixed costs have increased significantly each year as we have further expanded our network to accommodate additional subscriber demand and/or coverage areas, and we expect that this trend will continue in 2018 and beyond, particularly as we establish and expand our new high throughput satellite, or HTS, network. Sales of our TracPhone V-IP series products declined from 2015 to 2016, continuing through 2017. If sales of our TracPhone V-IP series products and the mini-VSAT Broadband service, including through our new AgilePlans subscription model, do not generate the level of revenue that we expect or if those revenues decline, our service gross margins may decline. As our market share has increased, we have also experienced a general increase in customer termination and suspension rates, compounded by accelerated declines in sales for vessels servicing the oil supply market with some bulk carriers, and lower unit sales of our mobile connectivity hardware, both in the United States and Europe. The failure to improve our mini-VSAT Broadband service gross margins and unit or subscriber sales would have a material adverse effect on our overall profitability.. 19. Table of Contents. Competition may limit our ability to sell our mobile connectivity products and services and inertial navigation products.. The mobile connectivity markets and defense navigation and inertial navigation markets in which we participate are very competitive, and we expect this competition to persist and intensify in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, which could impair our ability to sell our products and services. For example, improvements in the performance of lower-cost gyros by competitors could potentially jeopardize sales of our FOGs and FOG-based systems. As our market share in the mobile satellite communication market has grown, competition has intensified significantly, most notably from companies that seek to compete primarily on price. These companies may continue to implement price reductions and discounts for both products and services, which have required us to reduce our prices or offer discounts in order to maintain or increase our market share. Some of our VSAT competitors have also leveraged partnerships amongst themselves in order to capture larger combined market share. We anticipate that this trend of substantial competition will continue. Further, some of the companies that we depend on to supply us with capacity on satellite communications networks may vertically integrate by introducing their own products and services in competition with our products and services, thus potentially incentivizing them to refrain from providing satellite network capacity to us, or to make it available only on less favorable terms.. In the marine market for satellite TV equipment, we compete primarily with Intellian, Cobham SATCOM, Orbit Communication Systems, RayMarine (Intellian made), KNS, and Sea King (King Controls).. In the marine market for voice, fax, data, and Internet communications equipment, we compete primarily with Intellian, Cobham SATCOM, Orbit Communication Systems, Jotron AS, KNS Inc., Inmarsat, AddValue, and Iridium Satellite LLC.. In the marine market for high-speed voice, fax, data, and Internet services, we compete primarily with Inmarsat, Marlink, Speedcast, and Global Eagle Entertainment. We also face competition from providers of low-speed data services, which include Inmarsat, Globalstar LP, and Iridium Satellite LLC.. In the market for land mobile satellite TV equipment, we compete primarily with King Controls and Winegard Company.. In the markets for media content, the KVH Media Group competes primarily with Swank Motion Pictures and NewspaperDirect Inc., and Videotel competes with Seagull AS.. In the inertial navigation markets, we compete primarily with Honeywell International Inc., Northrop Grumman Corporation, Goodrich Aerospace, IAI, Fizoptica, SAGEM, and Systron Donner Inertial.. Among the factors that may affect our ability to compete in our markets are the following:. • many of our primary competitors are well-established companies that generally have substantially greater financial, managerial, technical, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do, which help them to compete more effectively in the market for mobile broadband solutions for larger fleets of vessels;. • the infrastructure costs for potential customers to switch from an existing service provider to our service may create disincentives for customers to enter into agreements for our services, even if those services are more attractive or cost effective;. • many of our prime competitors have well-established and/or growing partner programs, which pose a threat of multiplying their market influence;. • product and service improvements, new product and service developments or price reductions by competitors may weaken customer acceptance of, and reduce demand for, our products and services;. • new technology or market trends may disrupt or displace a need for our products and services;. • our competitors may have access to a broader array of media content than we do, which may cause customers to prefer competitors' media offerings; and. • our competitors may have lower production costs than we do, which may enable them to compete more aggressively in offering discounts and other promotions.. 20. Table of Contents. The emergence of a competing small maritime VSAT antenna and complementary service or other similar service could reduce the competitive advantage we believe we currently enjoy with our smaller TracPhone V-IP series antennas and Ku-band mini-VSAT Broadband service, or with our TracPhone V11-IP antenna and our C/Ku-band mini-VSAT Broadband service.. Our TracPhone V3-IP and V7-IP systems offer customers a range of benefits due to their integrated design, hardware costs that are lower than existing maritime Ku-band VSAT systems, and spread spectrum technology. We currently compete against companies that offer established maritime Ku-band VSAT service using, in some cases, antennas 1-meter in diameter or larger. While we are unaware of any company offering a 37-cm VSAT solution comparable to our TracPhone V3-IP, we are encountering regional competition from companies offering 60-cm VSAT systems and services, which are comparable in size to our TracPhone V7-IP. Likewise, our TracPhone V11-IP, at 1.1-meter in diameter, is approximately 85% smaller and lighter than competing C-band maritime VSAT systems, which use antennas in excess of 2.4-meters in diameter to provide similar global services. We are unaware of any competitor currently offering a similar size solution for global C-band coverage, but any introduction of such a product could adversely impact our success. In addition, other companies could replicate some of the distinguishing features of our TracPhone V-IP series products, which could potentially reduce the appeal of our solution, increase price competition, and adversely affect sales. For example, in early 2016, Inmarsat launched its Fleet Xpress service, a global Ka-band mobile VSAT service that Inmarsat claims is faster and has a lower price per megabit than existing Ku-band services. This service may adversely impact sales of our mini-VSAT Broadband service and related equipment. Moreover, consumers may choose other services such as FleetBroadband or Iridium OpenPort for their service coverage at potentially lower hardware costs despite higher service costs and slower data rates.. If we are unable to improve our existing mobile connectivity and inertial navigation products and services and develop new, innovative products and services, our sales and market share may decline.. The markets for mobile connectivity products and services and inertial navigation products and services are each characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations, and evolving industry standards. For example, Inmarsat is now selling its latest-generation Fleet Xpress satellite communications products and services. If we fail to make innovations in our existing products and services and reduce the costs of our products and services in a timely way, our market share may decline. For example, the introductions of our new TracVision TV-series antennas in 2014 occurred later than we had anticipated, which we believe led certain customers to purchase competing products. Products or services using new technologies, or emerging industry standards, could render our products and services obsolete. If our competitors successfully introduce new or enhanced products or services that eliminate technological advantages our products or services may have in a market or otherwise outperform our products or services, or are perceived by consumers as doing so, we may be unable to compete successfully in the markets affected by these changes.. We are devoting significant resources to research and development efforts that may be unsuccessful.. Research and development in our industry is inherently complex and uncertain, and our current and anticipated research and development projects may not achieve the results we seek. For example, we are currently investing in the development of a new, low-cost FOG for the autonomous vehicle market that will satisfy rigorous performance expectations but that can be manufactured at a significantly lower cost than our current FOGs. We are also seeking to develop enhancements to our current generation of TACNAV products. As with all development projects, we may encounter unforeseen technical challenges, delays, cost overruns, licensing requirements or other problems that prevent us from achieving our goals, as a result of which we could lose significant market opportunities. Our research and development expenses decreased 1% from 2016 to 2017, and the capital resources that we can devote to our research and development efforts may be insufficient to achieve our goals. Our efforts may not result in any viable products or may result in products whose performance, features, price or availability may not be attractive to customers. As a result, our efforts may not result in products that generate meaningful revenues in the near term, or at all. We may expend a significant amount of resources in unsuccessful research and development efforts, and any failure to achieve our research and development goals may harm our reputation with customers or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. The purchasing and delivery schedules and priorities of the U.S. military and foreign governments are often unpredictable.. We sell our FOG systems and tactical navigation products and services to U.S. and foreign military and government customers, either directly or as a subcontractor to other contractors. These customers often use a competitive bidding process and have unique purchasing and delivery requirements, which often makes the timing of sales to these customers unpredictable. Factors that affect their purchasing and delivery decisions include:. • increasing budgetary pressures, which may reduce or delay funding for military programs;. • changes in modernization plans for military equipment;. • changes in tactical navigation requirements;. • global conflicts impacting troop deployment, including troop withdrawals;. • priorities for current battlefield operations;. • new military and operational doctrines that affect military equipment needs;. • sales cycles that are long and difficult to predict;. • shifting response time and/or delays in the approval process associated with the export licenses we must obtain prior to the international shipment of certain of our military products;. • delays in military procurement schedules; and. • delays in the testing and acceptance of our products, including delays resulting from changes in customer specifications.. These factors periodically cause substantial fluctuations in sales of our TACNAV and FOG products and services from period to period. For example, TACNAV product sales decreased $10.3 million, or 69%, from 2016 to 2017, while sales of our TACNAV products increased $0.3 million, or 2%, from the 2015 to 2016. Similarly, sales of our FOG products increased $2.8 million, or 16%, from 2016 to 2017, but sales of our FOG products decreased $1.2 million, or 7%, from the 2015 to 2016. In October 2014, we received a $19.0 million TACNAV product and services contract with an international military customer which included program management and engineering services delivered through 2017 and hardware shipments that were completed in the third quarter of 2016. These large orders contribute to the unpredictability of our revenues from period to period. Government customers may change defense spending priorities at any time.. Sales of our FOG systems and TACNAV products generally consist of a few large orders, and the delay or cancellation of a single order could substantially reduce our net sales.. KVH products sold to customers in the defense industry are purchased through orders that can generally range in size from several hundred thousand dollars to more than thirty million dollars. For example, we received orders for TACNAV products and services of $3.5 million, $1.3 million, $1.4 million, $1.5 million, $4.3 million, $19.0 million, and $5.2 million in April 2017, November 2015, September 2015, May 2015, November 2014, October 2014 and May 2014, respectively. Orders of this size are often unpredictable and difficult to replicate. As a result, the delay or cancellation of a single order could materially reduce our net sales and results of operations. We routinely experience repeated and unanticipated delays in defense orders, which make our revenues and operating results less predictable. Because our inertial navigation products typically have relatively higher product gross margins than our mobile connectivity products, the loss of an order for inertial navigation products could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations.. Only a few customers account for a substantial portion of our inertial navigation revenues, and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our net sales.. We derive a significant portion of our inertial navigation revenues from a small number of customers, many of whom are contractors for the U.S. government. In October 2014, we received a $19.0 million TACNAV product and services contract from an international military customer which included program management and engineering services delivered through 2017 and hardware shipments that occurred in 2015 and 2016. The loss of business from any of these customers or delays in orders could substantially reduce our net sales and results of operations and could seriously harm our business. Since we are often awarded a contract as a subcontractor to a major defense supplier that is engaged in a competitive bidding process as prime contractor for a major weapons procurement program, our revenues depend significantly on the success of the prime contractors with which we align ourselves.. 22. Table of Contents. Commercial sales of our inertial navigation products are unpredictable.. Fluctuating commercial sales of our inertial navigation products are making it more difficult to predict our future revenues. We have been marketing our inertial navigation products, particularly our FOG products and systems, to original equipment manufacturers for incorporation into commercial products, such as navigation and positioning systems for various applications, including precision mapping, dynamic surveying, self-driving and other autonomous vehicles, train location control and track geometry measurement systems, industrial robotics, and optical stabilization. Because we sell these products to original equipment manufacturers rather than end-users, we have less information about market trends and other developments affecting the buying patterns of end-users and, as a result, may be unable to forecast demand for these products accurately. Sales of FOGs for commercial applications increased from 2016 to 2017; however, sales can significantly increase or decrease quarter-to-quarter due to our customer mix. Moreover, sales of these products for commercial applications depend on the success of our customers' products, and any decline in sales of our customers' products would reduce demand for our products.. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by unseasonably cold weather, prolonged winter conditions, disasters or similar events.. Our leisure marine business is highly seasonal, and seasonality can also impact our commercial marine business. Historically, we have generated the majority of our leisure marine product revenues during the first and second quarters of each year, and these revenues typically decline in the third and fourth quarters of each year, compared to the first two quarters. Temporary suspensions of our airtime services typically increase in the third and fourth quarters of each year as boats are placed out of service during winter months. Our leisure marine business is also significantly affected by the weather. Unseasonably cool weather, prolonged winter conditions, hurricanes, unusual amounts of rain, and natural and other disasters may decrease boating, which could reduce our revenues. Specifically, we may encounter a decrease in new airtime activations as well as an increase in the number of cancellations or temporary suspensions of our airtime service.. We could derive an increasing portion of our revenues from commercial leases of mobile connectivity equipment, rather than sales, which could increase our credit and collection risk.. We are actively seeking to increase revenues from the commercial markets for our mini-VSAT Broadband service, particularly shipping companies and other companies that deploy a fleet of vessels. In marketing this service, we offer leasing arrangements for the TracPhone antennas to both commercial and leisure customers. If commercial leases become increasingly popular with our customers, we could face increased risks of default under those leases. Defaults could increase our costs of collection (including costs of retrieving or abandoning leased equipment) and reduce the amount we collect from customers, which could harm our results of operations. Moreover, fleet sales are likely to be less common than, and perhaps substantially larger than, our typical orders, which could lead to increased variability in our quarterly revenues and gross margin realization.. Our ability to compete in the maritime airtime services market may be impaired if we are unable to provide sufficient service capacity to meet customer demand.. We currently offer our mini-VSAT Broadband service in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia-Pacific, and Australian and New Zealand waters. In the future, we may need to expand capacity, including under our new HTS network, in existing coverage areas to support our subscriber base. If we are unable to reach agreement with third-party satellite providers to support our mini-VSAT Broadband service and its technology or if transponder capacity is unavailable to meet growing demand in a given region, our ability to provide airtime services will be at risk and could reduce the attractiveness of our products and services.. 23. Table of Contents. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Because of the scope of our foreign sales and foreign operations, we face significant exposure to movements in exchange rates for foreign currencies, particularly the pounds sterling and the euro. During 2017, the U.S. dollar weakened against certain foreign currencies, which increased our revenues reported in U.S. dollars and increased the reported value of our assets in foreign countries. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens, our revenues denominated in foreign currencies but reported in U.S. dollars, as well as the reported value of our assets in foreign countries, would be commensurately lower.. We also have intragroup receivables and liabilities, such as loans, that can generate significant foreign currency effects. Changes in exchange rates, particularly the U.S. dollar against the pounds sterling, could lead to the recognition of unrealized foreign exchange losses.. Moreover, certain of our products and services are sold internationally in U.S. dollars; if the U.S. dollar strengthens, the relative cost of these products and services to customers located in foreign countries would increase, which could adversely affect export sales. In addition, most of our financial obligations, including payments under our outstanding debt obligations, must be satisfied in U.S. dollars. Our exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates may change over time as our business practices evolve and could result in increased costs or reduced revenue and could adversely affect our cash flow. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and may have a significant impact on our operating results. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the degree to which we can cost-effectively mitigate this exposure.. Brexit and political uncertainty in the United Kingdom and Europe could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations and disrupt our operations.. We have significant operations in the United Kingdom, including the major portion of our KVH Media Group and Videotel operations. The United Kingdom's intention to exit from the European Union, or Brexit, has caused significant political uncertainty in both the United Kingdom and the European Union. The impact of Brexit and the resulting turmoil on the political and economic future of the United Kingdom and the European Union is uncertain, and we may be adversely affected in ways we do not currently anticipate. Brexit may result in a significant change in the British regulatory environment, which would likely increase our compliance costs. Customers and other businesses may curtail expenditures, including for purchases of our products and services. We may find it more difficult to conduct business in the United Kingdom and the European Union, as Brexit may result in increased restrictions on the movement of capital, goods and personnel. Depending on the outcome of negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Union regarding the terms of Brexit, we may decide to relocate or otherwise alter our European operations to respond to the new business, legal, regulatory, tax and trade environments that may result. Brexit may materially and adversely affect our relationships with customers, suppliers and employees and could result in decreased revenue, increased expenses, higher tariffs and taxes, and lower earnings and cash flow.. Tight credit availability, environmental concerns and ongoing low levels of consumer confidence are adversely affecting sales of our mobile satellite TV products.. Factors such as tight credit, environmental protection laws and ongoing low levels of consumer confidence can materially and adversely affect sales of larger vehicles and vessels for which our mobile satellite TV products are designed, such as yachts and recreational vehicles. Many customers finance their purchases of these vehicles and vessels, and tight credit availability can reduce demand for both these vehicles and vessels and our mobile satellite TV products. Moreover, in the current credit markets, financing for these purchases has sometimes been unavailable or more difficult to obtain. The increased cost of operating these vehicles and vessels can adversely affect demand for our mobile satellite TV products.. 24. Table of Contents. Our business has substantial indebtedness, which could restrict our business opportunities.. We currently have, and will likely continue to have, a substantial amount of indebtedness. Our indebtedness could, among other things, make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, require us to use a large portion of our cash flow from operations to repay and service our debt or otherwise create liquidity problems, limit our flexibility to adjust to market conditions, place us at a competitive disadvantage and expose us to interest rate fluctuations. As of December 31, 2017, we had total debt outstanding of $47.1 million, which included $44.3 million in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding under our term note that matures in 2019. As of December 31, 2017, there were no borrowings outstanding under the revolver and the full balance of $15.0 million was available for borrowing.. We expect to obtain the money to pay our expenses and pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness from cash flow from our operations and potentially from other debt or equity offerings. Accordingly, our ability to meet our obligations depends on our future performance and capital raising activities, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources prove inadequate to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations, restructure or refinance our debt, which we may be unable to do on favorable terms, and forego attractive business opportunities. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives.. The agreements governing our indebtedness subject us to various restrictions that may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.. The agreements governing our indebtedness subject us to various restrictions on our ability to engage in certain activities, including, among other things, our ability to:. • acquire other businesses or make investments;. • raise additional capital;. • incur additional debt or create liens on our assets;. • pay dividends or make distributions;. • prepay indebtedness; and. • merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate, or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets.. These restrictions may limit or restrict our cash flow and our ability to pursue business opportunities or strategies that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests.. Our secured credit facility contains certain financial and other restrictive covenants that we may not satisfy, and that, if not satisfied, could result in the acceleration of the amounts due under our secured credit facility and the limitation of our ability to borrow additional funds in the future.. The agreements governing our secured credit facility subject us to various financial and other restrictive covenants with which we must comply on an ongoing or periodic basis. These include covenants pertaining to a maximum consolidated leverage ratio, a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, covenants requiring the mandatory prepayment of amounts outstanding under the term loan and the revolver under specified circumstances, including (i) 100% of the net cash proceeds from certain dispositions to the extent not reinvested in our business within a stated period, (ii) 50% of the net cash proceeds from stated equity issuances, and (iii) 100% of the net cash proceeds from certain receipts of more than $250,000 outside the ordinary course of business, and limits on capital expenditures. If we violate any of these covenants, we may suffer a material adverse effect. Most notably, our outstanding debt under our secured credit facility could become immediately due and payable, our lenders could proceed against any collateral securing such indebtedness, and our ability to borrow additional funds in the future could be limited or terminated. Alternatively, we could be forced to refinance or renegotiate the terms and conditions of our secured credit facility, including the interest rates, financial and restrictive covenants and security requirements of the secured credit facility, on terms that may be significantly less favorable to us.. In March 2017, we entered into an amendment to our secured credit facility. This amendment included (i) an increase to the Maximum Consolidated Leverage Ratio from 1.25:1.00 to 1.50:1.00, (ii) an increase to the lowest rate applicable to borrowing under the credit agreement from 1.50% to 1.75%, (iii) an amendment to the amortization schedule for the term loan to reduce the amount of required quarterly principal repayments to $575,000 and (iv) an amendment to the definition of Consolidated Fixed Charges Coverage Ratio to exclude any capital expenditures related to growth or revenue generating initiatives from the calculation. As a condition to the amendment, we made a principal repayment of $6.0 million on the term loan.. 25. Table of Contents. A default under agreements governing our indebtedness could result in a default and acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements.. Certain agreements governing our indebtedness contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement could result in a default and acceleration of our repayment obligations under other agreements. If a cross-default were to occur, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. Even if new financing were available, it may not be available on favorable terms. If some or all of our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our mobile satellite products currently depend on satellite services, gateway teleports and terrestrial networks provided by third parties, and a disruption in those services could adversely affect sales.. Our satellite antenna products include the equipment necessary to utilize satellite services; we do not own the satellites that directly provide two-way satellite communications or the terrestrial networks that interconnect our facilities with the satellite teleports that communicate with the satellites. We currently offer satellite television products compatible with the DIRECTV and DISH Network services in the United States, the Bell TV service in Canada, the Sky Mexico service and various other regional satellite TV services in other parts of the world.. SES, Eutelsat, Sky Perfect-JSAT, Telesat, EchoStar, Intelsat and Star One currently provide the satellite capacity to support the mini-VSAT Broadband service and our TracPhone V-IP series products. Intelsat also currently provides our C-Band satellite coverage. In addition, we have agreements with various teleports and Internet service providers around the globe to support the mini-VSAT Broadband service. The terrestrial fiber links that we use to connect with the Internet and to move our voice and data services between our facilities and the various satellite earth stations that support our services are provided to us through numerous service providers, some of which have contractual relationships with our satellite service providers and not directly with us. We rely on Inmarsat for satellite communications services for our FleetBroadband- and FleetOne-compatible TracPhone products. We also have an arrangement with Iridium for additional satellite communications services that we make available to our customers as a backup option to provide communications redundancy with our primary service offerings.. We exercise little or no control over these third-party providers of satellite, teleport and terrestrial network services, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. Due to our reliance on these service providers, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Service disruption or outages, regardless of whether they are caused by our service, the equipment or services of our third-party service providers, or our customers' or their equipment and systems, may result in loss of market acceptance of our service, and any necessary repairs or other remedial actions may cause us to incur significant costs and expenses. Any failure on the part of third-party service providers to achieve or maintain expected performance levels, stability and security could harm our relationships with our customers, result in claims for credits or damages, damage our reputation, significantly reduce customer demand for our solution and seriously harm our financial condition and operating results.. If customers become dissatisfied with the programming, pricing, service, availability or other aspects of any of these satellite services, or if any one or more of these services becomes unavailable for any reason, we could suffer a substantial decline in sales of our satellite products. There may be no alternative service provider available in a particular geographic area, and our modem or other technology may not be compatible with the technology of any alternative service provider that may be available. Even if available, delays caused by switching our technology to another service provider, if available, and qualifying this new service provider could materially harm our customer relationships, business, financial condition and operating results In addition, the unexpected failure of a satellite could disrupt the availability of programming and services, which could reduce the demand for, or customer satisfaction with, our products.. 26. Table of Contents. We rely upon spread spectrum communications technology developed by ViaSat and transmitted by third-party satellite providers to permit two-way broadband Internet via our TracPhone V-IP series antennas, and any disruption in the availability of this technology could adversely affect sales.. Our mini-VSAT Broadband service relies on spread spectrum technology developed by ViaSat, for use with satellite capacity controlled by SES, Eutelsat, Sky Perfect-JSAT, Telesat, Echostar, Intelsat and Star One. Our TracPhone two-way broadband satellite terminals combine our stabilized antenna technology with ViaSat's ArcLight spread spectrum mobile broadband technology, along with ViaSat's ArcLight spread spectrum modem. The ArcLight technology is also integrated within the satellite hubs that support this service. Sales of the TracPhone V-IP series products and our mini-VSAT Broadband service could be disrupted if we fail to receive approval from regulatory authorities to provide our spread spectrum service in the waters of various countries where our customers operate or if there are issues with the availability of the ArcLight maritime modems. Moreover, satellite communications technology may continue to evolve, which could reduce the relative attractiveness of the ArcLight technology we currently offer, and our ArcLight technology may cease to be compatible with changes in satellite service offerings. As we transition to our new HTS service over the next several years, we may encounter technological challenges, increased expenses, customer dissatisfaction, inventory obsolescence, interruptions in supply, disruptions in current relationships or arrangements and unforeseen obstacles, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our mobile satellite business, revenues and profitability.. We have single dedicated manufacturing facilities for each of our mobile connectivity and inertial navigation product categories, and any significant disruption to a facility could impair our ability to deliver our products.. Excluding the products manufactured by Videotel and KVH Media Group, which are manufactured in the United Kingdom, we currently manufacture all of our mobile connectivity products at our manufacturing facility in Middletown, Rhode Island, and the majority of our inertial navigation products at our facility in Tinley Park, Illinois. Some of our production processes are complex, and we may be unable to respond rapidly to the loss of the use of either production facility. For example, our production facilities use some specialized equipment that may take time to replace if they are damaged or become unusable for any reason. In that event, shipments would be delayed, which could result in customer or dealer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and damage to our reputation. Finally, we have only a limited capability to increase our manufacturing capacity in the short term. If short-term demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, our inability to fulfill orders in a timely manner could also lead to customer or dealer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and damage to our reputation.. We depend on sole or limited source suppliers, and any disruption in supply could impair our ability to deliver our products on time or at expected cost.. We obtain many key components for our products from third-party suppliers, and in some cases we use a single or a limited number of suppliers. Any interruption in supply could impair our ability to deliver our products until we identify and qualify a new source of supply, which could take several weeks, months or longer and could increase our costs significantly. Suppliers might change or discontinue key components, which could require us to modify our product designs. For example, in the past, we have experienced changes in the chemicals used to coat our optical fiber, which changed its characteristics and thereby necessitated design modifications. Department of Defense regulations requiring government contractors to implement processes to avoid counterfeit parts may require us to find new sources of materials or components if the current supplier cannot meet the requirements. In general, we do not have written long-term supply agreements with our suppliers but instead purchase components through purchase orders, which expose us to potential price increases and termination of supply without notice or recourse. It is generally not our practice to carry significant inventories of product components, and this could magnify the impact of the loss of a supplier. If we are required to use a new source of materials or components, it could also result in unexpected manufacturing difficulties and could affect product performance and reliability. In addition, from time to time, lead times for certain components can increase significantly due to imbalances in overall market supply and demand. This, in turn, could limit our ability to satisfy the demand for certain of our products on a timely basis and could result in some customer orders being rescheduled or canceled.. We may continue to increase the use of international suppliers to source components for our manufacturing operations, which could disrupt our business.. Although we have historically manufactured and sourced raw materials for the majority of our products domestically, in order for us to compete with lower priced competing products while also improving our profitability, in some instances we have found it desirable to source raw materials and manufactured components and assemblies from Europe, Asia, and South America. Reliance on foreign manufacturing and/or raw material supply has lengthened our supply chain and increased the risk that a disruption in that supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.. 27. Table of Contents. We depend on cloud-based data services operated by third parties, and any disruption in the operation of these services could harm our business.. We host some of our content services and business records using various cloud-based data services operated by third parties. Any failure or downtime in one of these services could affect a significant percentage of our customers. Although we control and have access to our servers and all of the components of our network that are located in our internal facilities and certain of our external data facilities, we do not control the operation of external facilities. The providers of our data management services have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, or if one or more of our data management service providers is acquired, closes, suffers financial difficulty or is unable to meet our growing capacity needs, we may be required to transfer our data to other services, and we may incur significant costs and service interruptions in connection with doing so, which could harm our reputation with our customers and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. Adverse economic conditions could result in financial difficulties or bankruptcy for any of our suppliers, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The current state of worldwide economic conditions and tight credit could present challenges to our suppliers, which could result in disruptions to our business, increase our costs, delay shipment of our products or delivery of services, and impair our ability to generate and recognize revenue. To address their own business challenges, our suppliers may increase prices, reduce the availability of credit, require deposits or advance payments or take other actions that may impose a burden on us.. They may also reduce production capacity, slow or delay delivery of products, face challenges meeting our specifications or otherwise fail to meet our requirements. In some cases, our suppliers may face bankruptcy. We may be required to identify, qualify, and engage new suppliers, which would require time and the attention of management. Any of these events could impair our ability to deliver our products and services to customers in a timely and cost-effective manner, cause us to breach our contractual commitments or result in the loss of customers.. Our media and entertainment business relies on licensing arrangements with content providers, and the loss of or changes in those arrangements could adversely affect our business.. We distribute premium news, sports, movies, and music content for commercial and leisure customers in the maritime, hotel, and retail markets. We do not generate this content but instead license the content from third parties on a non-exclusive basis. We do not have long-term license agreements with any content provider. Accordingly, any content provider could terminate our existing arrangements with little or no advance notice or could adversely modify the terms of the arrangement, including initiating potential price increases. Further, the licenses we obtain are limited in scope, and any violation of the terms of a license could expose us to liability for copyright infringement. We pay license fees that are based in part on the revenue we generate from sublicenses, and our licensors generally have the right to audit our records to determine whether we have paid all necessary license fees. Failure to pay required license fees could result in any combination of termination of our license rights, penalties, or damages. The loss of content could adversely affect the attractiveness of our media and entertainment offerings, which could in turn adversely affect our revenues. Any increase in the cost of content could reduce the profitability of these offerings.. Any failure to maintain and expand our third-party distribution relationships may limit our ability to penetrate markets for mobile connectivity products and services.. We market and sell our mobile connectivity products and services through an international network of independent retailers, chain stores and distributors, as well as to manufacturers of marine vessels, recreational vehicles and buses. Many of our distributors are also responsible for providing onsite support and installation for our products, which requires our distributors to employ highly skilled workers and maintain facilities in locations convenient to our customers, such as at maritime ports. We also expect our distributors to assist us in expanding internationally. Some of our distribution relationships are new, and our new distributors may not be successful in marketing and selling our products and services. In addition, our distribution partners do not have exclusive relationships with us and may sell products of other companies, including competing products, and are generally not required to purchase minimum quantities of our products. Our competitors may be able to cause our current or potential distributors to favor their services over ours, either through financial incentives, technological innovation, by offering a broader array of services to these service providers or otherwise, which could reduce the effectiveness of our use of these distributors. If we fail to maintain relationships with our current distributors, fail to develop relationships with new distributors in new and existing markets, or manage, train, or provide appropriate incentives to our existing distributors, or if our distributors are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products and services may decline and our operating results could be harmed.. 28. Table of Contents. Our international business operations expose us to a number of difficulties in coordinating our activities abroad and in dealing with multiple regulatory environments.. Historically, sales to customers outside the United States have accounted for a significant portion of our net sales. We derived 62%, 63%, and 67% of our revenues in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, from sales to customers outside the United States. We have foreign sales offices in Denmark, the United Kingdom, Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan, Norway, Cyprus and the Philippines, as well as a subsidiary in Brazil that manages local sales. However, aside from these international sales offices, substantially all of our personnel and operations, particularly for our mobile connectivity equipment business and our inertial navigation business, are located in the United States. Our limited operations in foreign countries may impair our ability to compete successfully in international markets and to meet the service and support needs of our customers in countries where we have little to no infrastructure. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our international business activities, which may increase our costs and require significant management attention. These risks include:. • technical challenges we may face in adapting our mobile connectivity products to function with different satellite services and technology in use in various regions around the world;. • satisfaction of international regulatory requirements and delays and costs associated with procurement of any necessary licenses or permits;. • the potential unavailability of content licenses covering international waters and foreign locations;. • restrictions on the sale of certain inertial navigation products to foreign military and government customers;. • increased costs of providing customer support in multiple languages;. • increased costs of managing operations that are international in scope;. • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings;. • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets;. • potentially longer sales cycles, which could slow our revenue growth from international sales;. • potentially longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; and. • economic and political instability in some international markets.. We could incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties if we do not comply with certain regulations.. As a result of our international operations, we are subject to a number of legal requirements, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and the customs, export, trade sanctions and anti-boycott laws of the United States, including those administered by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, the Department of Commerce, the Department of State, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Treasury Department, as well as those of other nations in which we do business. In addition, the governments of many of the countries where our customers use our products and services maintain licensing and regulatory requirements for the importation and use of satellite communications and reception equipment, including the use of such equipment in the country's territorial waters, the transmission of satellite signals on certain radio frequencies, the transmission of voice over Internet services using such equipment, and, in some cases, the reception of certain video programming services. These laws and regulations are changing continuously, and compliance with these laws and regulations is complex. We incur significant costs identifying and maintaining compliance with applicable licensing and regulatory requirements. In addition, our training and compliance programs and our other internal control policies may be insufficient to protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents or third-party contractors. Any violation of these requirements by us or our employees, agents or third-party contractors may subject us to significant criminal and civil liability.. Exports of certain inertial navigation products are subject to the U.S. Export Administration Regulations and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations and require a license from the U.S. Department of State prior to shipment.. We must comply with the United States Export Administration Regulations and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR. Certain of our products have military or strategic applications and are on the munitions list of the ITAR and require an individual validated license in order to be exported to certain jurisdictions. Any changes in export regulations or reclassifications of our products may further restrict the export of our products, and we may cease to be able to procure export licenses for our products under existing regulations. The length of time required by the licensing process can vary, potentially delaying the shipment of products and the recognition of the corresponding revenue. Any restriction on the export of a product line or any amount of our products could cause a significant reduction in net sales.. 29. Table of Contents. We are subject to FCC rules and regulations, and any non-compliance could subject us to FCC enforcement actions, fines, loss of licenses and possibly restrictions on our ability to operate or offer certain of our services.. The satellite communications industry is regulated by the Federal Communications Commission in the United States and, as a result, we are subject to existing and potential FCC regulations relating to privacy, contributions to the Universal Service Fund, or USF, and other requirements. If we do not comply with FCC rules and regulations, we could be subject to FCC enforcement actions, substantial fines, penalties, loss of licenses and possibly restrictions on our ability to operate or offer certain of our services. Any enforcement action by the FCC, which may be a public process, could hurt our reputation in the industry, possibly impair our ability to sell our services to customers and could harm our business and results of operations.. Reform of federal and state USF programs could increase the cost of our service to our customers, diminishing or eliminating our pricing advantage.. The FCC has been considering reform or other modifications to its USF program. The way we calculate our contribution to USF may change if the FCC engages in reform or adopts other modifications. In April 2012, the FCC released a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to consider reforms to the manner in which companies like us contribute to the federal USF program. In general, the Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking indicates that the FCC is considering changes to the companies that should contribute, how contributions should be assessed, and methods to improve the administration of the system. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding or its impact on our business at this time. The changes in the leadership of the U.S. Government resulting from the federal election in 2016 may renew interest in completing this proceeding.. Should the FCC adopt new contribution mechanisms or otherwise modify contribution obligations that increase our contribution burden, we will either need to raise the amount we currently collect from our customers to cover this obligation or absorb the costs, which would reduce our profit margins. The attractiveness of our services may also be reduced as compared to the services of our competitors that do not appear to contribute to USF, or do not do so to the same extent that we do.. Privacy concerns and domestic or foreign laws and regulations may reduce demand for our services, increase our costs and harm our business.. Our company and our customers can potentially use our services to collect, use and store information, including personally identifiable information or other information treated as confidential, regarding the content and manner of usage of our services by them, their employees and maritime crews. Federal, state and foreign governments and agencies have adopted, are considering adopting, or may adopt laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, storage and disclosure of such information obtained from consumers and individuals, such as the European Union's new General Data Protection Regulation, which takes effect in May 2018. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable to us and the operations of our customers may limit the use and adoption of our services and reduce overall demand, and any non-compliance with these laws and regulations could lead to significant remediation expenses, fines, penalties or other regulatory liabilities such as orders or consent decrees forcing us to modify our privacy practices, as well as reputational damage or third-party lawsuits seeking damages or other relief.. Domestic and international legislative and regulatory initiatives may harm our ability, and the ability of our customers, to process, handle, store, use and transmit information, including demographic and personally identifiable information or other information treated as confidential, regarding individual users of the services, which could reduce demand for some of our services, increase our costs and force us to change our business practices. These laws and regulations are still evolving and are likely to be in flux and subject to uncertain interpretation for the foreseeable future. Our business could be harmed if legislation or regulations are adopted, interpreted or implemented in a manner that is inconsistent from country to country and inconsistent with our current policies and practices, or those of our customers. In addition, foreign data protection, privacy, and consumer protection laws and regulations are often more stringent than those in the United States. In particular, the European Union and its member states traditionally have imposed greater legal obligations on companies that collect and process personal data.. 30. Table of Contents. Acquisitions may disrupt our operations or adversely affect our results.. We evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities to acquire other businesses as they arise, such as our acquisitions of Videotel in July 2014 and KVH Media Group in May 2013. The expenses we incur evaluating and pursuing these and other such acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, during 2014, we incurred significant expenses related to the acquisition of Videotel. If we acquire a business, we may be unable to manage it profitably or successfully integrate its operations with our own. Moreover, we may be unable to realize the strategic, financial, operational and other benefits we anticipate from any acquisition, and any acquisition may increase our overall operating expenses. Competition for acquisition opportunities could increase the price we pay for businesses we acquire and could reduce the number of potential acquisition targets. Further, our approach to acquisitions may involve a number of special financial and business risks, such as:. • entry into new and unfamiliar lines of business or markets, which may present challenges or risks that we did not anticipate;. • entry into new or unfamiliar geographic regions, including exposure to additional tax and regulatory regimes;. • increased expenses associated with the amortization of acquired intangible assets;. • increased exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. • charges related to any potential acquisition from which we may withdraw;. • diversion of our management's time, attention, and resources;. • loss of key acquired personnel;. • increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial, and administrative systems, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;. • dilutive issuances of equity securities;. • the assumption of legal liabilities; and. • losses arising from impairment charges associated with goodwill or intangible assets.. For example, we incurred additional expenses to implement internal control over financial reporting appropriate for a public company at Videotel and KVH Media Group, which previously operated as private companies not subject to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.. If we cannot effectively manage changes in our rate of growth, our business may suffer.. We have previously expanded our operations to pursue existing and potential market opportunities, and we are continuing to expand our international operations. For example, we expanded our service offerings through the acquisitions of Videotel in 2014 and KVH Media Group in 2013. This growth placed a strain on our personnel, management, financial and other resources and increased our operating expenses. If any portion of our business grows more rapidly than we anticipate and we fail to manage that growth properly, we may incur unnecessary expenses, and the efficiency of our operations may decline. If we are unable to adjust our operating expenses on a timely basis in response to changes in revenue cycles, our results of operations may be harmed. To manage changes in our rate of growth effectively, we must, among other things:. • match our manufacturing facilities and capacity to demand for our products and services in a timely manner;. • secure appropriate satellite capacity to match changes in demand for airtime services in a timely manner;. • successfully attract, train, motivate and manage appropriate numbers of employees for manufacturing, sales, marketing and customer support activities;. • effectively manage our inventory and working capital;. • maintain the efficiencies within our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems; and. • ensure that our procedures and internal controls are revised and updated to remain appropriate for the size and scale of our business operations.. We may be unable to hire and retain the skilled personnel we need to expand our operations.. To meet our growth objectives, we must attract and retain highly skilled technical, operational, managerial and sales and marketing personnel. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary personnel, we may be unable to achieve our business objectives and may lose our competitive position, which could lead to a significant decline in net sales. We face significant competition for these skilled professionals from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations.. 31. Table of Contents. Our success depends on the services of our executive officers.. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills and efforts of Martin Kits van Heyningen, our co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board. If we lost the services of Mr. Kits van Heyningen, our business and operating results could be seriously harmed. We also depend on the ability of our other executive officers to work effectively as a team. The loss of one or more of our executive officers could impair our ability to manage our business effectively.. Our business may suffer if we cannot protect our proprietary technology.. Our ability to compete depends significantly upon our patents, copyrights, source code, and other proprietary technology. The steps we have taken to protect our technology may be inadequate to prevent others from using what we regard as our technology to compete with us. Our patents could expire or be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights we have under our patents could provide no competitive advantages. Existing trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws offer only limited protection. Customers or others with access to our proprietary or licensed media content could copy that content without permission or otherwise violate the terms of our customer agreements, which would adversely affect our revenues and could impair our relationships with content providers. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary technology to the same extent as the laws of the United States, which could increase the likelihood of misappropriation. Furthermore, other companies could independently develop similar or superior technology without violating our intellectual property rights. Any misappropriation of our technology or the development of competing technology could seriously harm our competitive position, which could lead to a substantial reduction in net sales.. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome, disruptive and expensive, distract the attention of management, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail.. Also, we have delivered certain technical data and information to the U.S. government under procurement contracts, and it may have unlimited rights to use that technical data and information. There can be no assurance that the U.S. government will not authorize others to use that data and information to compete with us.. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and financial condition.. Our industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents, patents that may be issued in the future, or other intellectual property rights of others.. We do not generally conduct exhaustive patent searches to determine whether the technology used in our products infringes patents held by third parties. In addition, product development is inherently uncertain in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential when filed, with regard to similar technologies.. From time to time we have faced claims by third parties that our products or technology infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, and we may face similar claims in the future. For example, we were sued for patent infringement in 2015, and we settled this claim in January 2016 with a payment of cash to Advanced Media Network. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against or settling the claim, even if the claim is invalid, and could distract the attention of our management. If any of our products are found to violate third-party proprietary rights, we may be required to pay substantial damages. In addition, we may be required to re-engineer our products or obtain licenses from third parties to continue to offer our products. Any efforts to re-engineer our products or obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms may not be successful, which would prevent us from selling our products, and, in any case, could substantially increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 32. Table of Contents. Cybersecurity breaches could disrupt our operations, expose us to liability, damage our reputation, and require us to incur significant costs or otherwise adversely affect our financial results.. We are highly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to securely process, transmit and store electronic information, including personal information of our customers. We also retain sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, personally identifiable information, credit card information, and usage data of our employees and customers on our computer networks. Although we take certain protective measures and endeavor to modify them as we believe circumstances warrant, invasive technologies and techniques continue to evolve rapidly, and our computer systems, software and networks are vulnerable to disruption, shutdown, unauthorized access, misuse, erasure, alteration, employee error, phishing, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have a security impact. Any security breach may compromise information stored on our networks and may result in significant data losses or theft of our, our customers', our business partners' or our employees' sensitive information. Public reports suggest that cybersecurity incidents are happening more often and with increasingly severe consequences. We may be required to expend substantial additional resources to augment our efforts to address potential cybersecurity risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. If any of these events were to occur, they could disrupt our operations, distract our management, cause us to lose existing customers and fail to attract new customers, as well as subject us to regulatory actions, litigation, fines, damage to our reputation or competitive position, or orders or decrees requiring us to modify our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Our media business may expose us to claims regarding our media content.. Our media business produces training films and eLearning computer-based training courses, including programs on safety, maintenance, security and regulatory compliance, and also provides commercially licensed maritime charting and navigation information. Our efforts to ensure the accuracy and reliability of the content we provide could be inadequate, and we could face claims of liability based on this content. Contractual and other measures we take to limit our liability may be inadequate to protect us from these claims. Although we have certain rights of indemnification from third parties for certain portions of the content we provide to customers, it may be time-consuming and expensive to enforce our rights, and the third parties may lack the resources to fulfill their obligations to us. Further, our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, exclusions and limitations of coverage, and there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage would be available to satisfy any claims against us. Any such claims may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Fluctuations in our quarterly net sales and results of operations could depress the market price of our common stock.. We have at times experienced significant fluctuations in our net sales and results of operations from one quarter to the next. Our future net sales and results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Accordingly, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. It is possible that our net sales or results of operations in a quarter will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the market price of our common stock could fall significantly. Our results of operations in any quarter can fluctuate for many reasons, including:. • changes in demand for our mobile connectivity products and services and inertial navigation products and services, including as a result of our AgilePlans;. • the timing and size of individual orders from military customers, which may be delayed or canceled for various reasons;. • the mix of products and services we sell, including the mix of fixed rate and metered contracts for airtime services;. • our ability to manufacture, test and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, including the availability and timely delivery of components and subassemblies from our suppliers;. • our success in winning competitions for orders;. • the timing of new product introductions by us or our competitors;. • the scope of our investments in research and development;. • expenses incurred in pursuing acquisitions;. • expenses incurred in expanding, maintaining, or improving our mini-VSAT Broadband network;. • market and competitive pricing pressures;. • unanticipated charges or expenses, such as increases in warranty claims;. • general economic climate; and. • seasonality of pleasure boat and recreational vehicle usage.. 33. Table of Contents. In 2018, in light of our current investments in research and development and the establishment and expansion of our new HTS network, we expect that our operating expenses in each quarter of 2018 could increase significantly over the amount we incurred in the comparable quarter of 2017.. In late 2015, we introduced new rate plans for our airtime services, including various rate plans that offer higher data speeds with usage caps. Under these rate plans, customers receive a base level of service for a fixed fee and pay additional fees for usage over the base level. Accordingly, the revenue we generate from a customer may vary with that customer's usage. We are unable to predict accurately the extent to which customers will transition to particular metered rate plans or the degree to which usage, and therefore our revenue, may vary from quarter to quarter.. A large portion of our expenses, including expenses for network infrastructure, facilities, equipment, and personnel, are relatively fixed. Accordingly, if our net sales decline or do not grow as much or as quickly as we anticipate, we might be unable to maintain or improve our operating margins. Any failure to achieve anticipated net sales could therefore significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile.. Our stock price has historically been volatile. During the period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2017, the trading price of our common stock ranged from $7.31 to $15.79. Many factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including:. • variations in our quarterly results of operations;. • the introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors;. • changing needs of military customers;. • changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by securities analysts;. • the hiring or departure of key personnel;. • acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors;. • market conditions in our industries; and. • the global macroeconomic and geopolitical environment.. In addition, the stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Major stock market indices experienced dramatic declines in 2008, in the first quarter of 2009 and in January 2016. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. When the market price of a company's stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities litigation against that company. Any such litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses defending against the claim, divert the time and attention of our management and result in significant damages.. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities, which could negatively impact our income tax expense, net income and cash flow.. We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires significant judgment and estimation. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities and to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax benefit or expense, net loss or income, and cash flows in the period in which such determination is made. As of December 31, 2017, we had liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $1.6 million.. Deferred tax assets are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carry forwards. In certain instances, a valuation allowance may be recorded to reduce certain deferred tax assets to estimated realizable value. We review our deferred tax assets and valuation allowance requirements on a quarterly basis. If, during our quarterly reviews of our deferred tax assets, we determine that it is more likely than not that we will not be able to generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the net carrying value of deferred tax assets, we will record a valuation allowance to reduce the tax assets to estimated realizable value, which could result in a material income tax charge. As part of our review, we consider positive and negative evidence, including cumulative results of recent years. As of December 31, 2017, we had recorded $16.0 million of valuation allowances against our gross deferred tax assets of $17.8 million.. 34. Table of Contents. Our effective tax rate fluctuates, and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of accrued amounts.. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places that we operate. In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each jurisdiction. Our effective tax rate, however, may be different than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country, the results of examinations and audits of our tax filings, adjustments to the value of our uncertain tax positions, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws, including the 2017 Tax Act. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations.. In addition, our inability to secure or sustain acceptable arrangements with tax authorities and future changes in the tax laws, among other things, may result in tax obligations in excess of amounts accrued in our financial statements.. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") has resulted in significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system. These changes include a federal statutory rate reduction from 35% to 21%, the elimination or reduction of certain domestic deductions and credits and limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation. The 2017 Tax Act also transitions international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system and includes base erosion prevention measures on non-U.S. earnings, which has the effect of subjecting certain earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to U.S. taxation as global intangible low-taxed income or \"GILTI\". These changes are effective beginning in 2018.. The 2017 Tax Act also includes the Transition Toll Tax, which is a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on accumulated foreign subsidiaries' previously untaxed foreign earnings. The Transition Toll Tax may be paid over an eight-year period, starting in 2018, and will not accrue interest.. We have made a preliminary estimate of the Transition Toll Tax and the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2017. The preliminary estimate is subject to change as we finalize our analysis and as interpretations of the provisions of the 2017 Tax Act continue to develop. The final determination of the Transition Toll Tax and the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities will be completed as additional information becomes available, but no later than one year from the enactment of the 2017 Tax Act. U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting the 2017 Tax Act may require further adjustments and changes in our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions.. Changes in the competitive environment or supply chain issues may require inventory write-downs.. From time to time, we have recorded significant inventory charges and/or inventory write-offs as a result of substantial declines in customer demand. Market or competitive changes could lead to future charges for excess or obsolete inventory, especially if we are unable to appropriately adjust the supply of material from our vendors.. If goodwill or other intangible assets that we have recorded in connection with our acquisitions of other businesses become impaired, we could have to take significant charges against earnings.. As a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded, and may continue to record, a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other intangible assets has been impaired. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in additional charges against earnings, which could materially reduce our reported results of operations in future periods.. 35. Table of Contents. Our charter and by-laws and Delaware law may deter takeovers.. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect and discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or an acquisition that many stockholders may find attractive. These provisions may also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to take some corporate actions, including the election of directors. These provisions relate to:. • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and determine its terms, without a stockholder vote;. • the classification of our Board of Directors, which effectively prevents stockholders from electing a majority of the directors at any one annual meeting of stockholders;. • the limitation that directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote;. • the prohibition against stockholder actions by written consent;. • the inability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and. • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations."
