[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks and Uncertainties. We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The following risks highlight some of the more significant factors that have affected us and could affect us in the future. We may also be affected by unknown risks or risks that we currently believe are immaterial. If any such events actually occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. You should carefully consider the following factors and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding to invest in our common stock.. Our inability to successfully manage joint ventures, divestitures, and other significant transactions could harm our financial results, business, and prospects.. As part of our business strategy, we may divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures, and make investments to realize anticipated benefits, which actions involve a number of inherent risks and uncertainties. We can give no assurances that the opportunities will be consummated or that financing will be available. We may not be able to achieve the synergies and other benefits we expect from strategic transactions as successfully or rapidly as projected, if at all.. Our future performance and market value could cause additional write-downs of long-lived and intangible assets in future periods.. We are required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to review intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered to be a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to, a decline in stock price and resulting market capitalization, a significant decrease in the market value of an asset, or a significant decrease in operating or cash flow projections. No impairments of goodwill or long-lived assets were recorded in 2017.. During the third quarter of 2015, we performed an interim goodwill test and concluded that the carrying amounts of the Test and Inspection Services and Precision Measurement Systems business units' goodwill exceeded the implied fair values of that goodwill. We recognized an aggregate non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $80,337 to write down the carrying values to the implied fair values, of which $69,908 represented the full carrying value of the goodwill related to the Test and Inspection Services business unit and the remaining $10,429 related to the Precision Measurement Systems business unit.. During the second and third quarters of 2016, we performed an interim goodwill test and concluded that the carrying amounts of the Rail Technologies, Protective Coatings, and Precision Measurement Systems business units' goodwill exceeded the implied fair values of the respective goodwill. We recognized an aggregate non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $61,142 to write down the carrying values to the implied fair values, of which $16,560 represented the full carrying value of goodwill related to the 2013 Ball Winch acquisition and $11,873 represented the remaining carrying value related to the Precision Measurement Systems business unit. We also performed interim long-lived asset recoverability tests during the second and third quarters of 2016 and concluded that the long-lived assets related to the Test and Inspection Services and Precision Measurement Systems business units had carrying values in excess of the asset groups' fair value. We recognized non-cash definite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $59,786 to write down the carrying values to the implied fair values, of which $42,982 related to Test and Inspection Services and $16,804 related to Precision Measurement Systems. Finally, in 2016, we recognized $14,956 non-cash tangible long-lived impairment charges related to the carrying value of certain long-lived tangible assets exceeding their fair value, all of which related to Test and Inspection Services.. No assurances can be given that we will not be required to record future significant charges related to tangible or intangible asset impairments.. Our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations.. Our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, it could:. •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to payments of our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, and other general corporate purposes;. •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. •limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, or general corporate purposes.. 9. Table of Contents. Our inability to comply with covenants in place or our inability to make the required principal and interest payments may cause an event of default, which could have a substantial adverse impact to our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There is no assurance that refinancings or asset dispositions could be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all, particularly if credit market conditions deteriorate. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that refinancings or asset dispositions would be permitted by the terms of our credit agreements or debt instruments. Our existing credit agreements contain, and any future debt agreements we may enter into may contain, certain financial tests and other covenants that limit our ability to incur indebtedness, acquire other businesses, and may impose various other restrictions. Our ability to comply with financial tests may be adversely affected by changes in economic or business conditions beyond our control, and these covenants may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. We cannot be certain that we will be able to comply with the financial tests and other covenants, or, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers or amended terms from our lenders. An uncured default with respect to one or more of the covenants could result in the amounts outstanding being declared immediately due and payable, which may also trigger an obligation to redeem our outstanding debt securities and repay all other outstanding indebtedness. Any such acceleration of our indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Prolonged low energy prices and other unfavorable changes in U.S., global, or regional economic and market conditions could adversely affect our business.. We could be adversely impacted by prolonged negative changes in economic conditions affecting either our suppliers or customers as well as the capital markets. Negative changes in government spending may result in delayed or permanent deferrals of existing or potential projects. No assurances can be given that we will be able to successfully mitigate various prolonged uncertainties including materials cost variability, delayed or reduced customer orders and payments, and access to available capital resources outside of operations.. In addition, volatile market conditions and low energy prices could continue for an extended period, which would negatively affect our business prospects. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty, and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Sustained declines or significant and frequent fluctuations in the price of oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. Our ability to maintain or improve our profitability could be adversely impacted by cost pressures.. Our profitability is dependent upon the efficient use of our resources. Rising inflation, labor costs, labor disruptions, and other increases in costs in the geographic areas in which we operate could have a significant adverse impact on our profitability and results of operations.. Management projections, estimates, and judgments may not be indicative of our future performance.. Our management is required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine reserves related to litigation, deferred tax assets, and the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities. Certain asset and liability valuations are subject to management's judgment and actual results are influenced by factors outside our control.. We are required to maintain a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to income and equity if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. This evaluation process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period. The use of different estimates can result in changes in the amounts of deferred tax items recognized, which can result in equity and earnings volatility because such changes are reported in current period earnings. See Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 14 Income Taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein, for additional discussion of our deferred taxes.. Our business operates in highly competitive markets and a failure to react to changing market conditions could adversely impact our business.. We face strong competition in each of the markets in which we participate. A slow response to competitor pricing actions and new competitor entries into our product lines could negatively impact our overall pricing. Efforts to improve pricing could negatively impact our sales volume in all product categories. We may be required to invest more heavily to maintain and expand our product offerings. There can be no assurance that new product offerings will be widely accepted in the markets we serve. Significant negative developments in any of these areas could adversely affect our financial results and condition.. 10. Table of Contents. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and prevent its improper use by third parties, our ability to compete may be harmed.. We own a number of patents and trademarks under the intellectual property laws of the United States, Canada, Europe, and other countries where product sales are possible. However, we have not perfected patent and trademark protection of our proprietary intellectual property for all products in all countries. The decision not to obtain patent and trademark protection in other countries may result in other companies copying and marketing products that are based upon our proprietary intellectual property. This could impede growth into new markets where we do not have such protections and result in a greater supply of similar products in such markets, which in turn could result in a loss of pricing power and reduced revenue.. Our success is in part dependent on the accuracy and proper utilization of our management information and communications systems.. We are currently working through an enterprise resource program (\"ERP\") system transition. Certain divisions of our Company migrated into the new ERP system during 2016 while certain other divisions may be transitioned during 2018 and subsequent years. The system implementation is intended to enable us to better meet the information requirements of our users, increase our integration efficiencies, and identify additional synergies in the future. The implementation of our ERP system is complex because of the wide range of processes and systems to be integrated across our business. Project delays, business interruptions, or loss of expected benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the design, operation, or implementation of our various systems, or in the performance of our systems, particularly any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to effectively run and manage our business, including our ability to receive, process, ship, and bill for orders in a timely manner or our ability to properly manage our inventory or accurately present our inventory availability or pricing.. We are subject to cybersecurity risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks.. Our business employs systems and websites that allow for the storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding our customers, employees, job applicants, and other parties, including financial information, intellectual property, and personal identification information. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, expose us to liability, and harm our reputation and business. The steps we take to deter and mitigate these risks may not be successful. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent current or rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. Data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including an intentional or inadvertent breach by our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships. Any compromise or breach of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, legal and financial exposure, negative impacts on our customers' willingness to transact business with us, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation.. We are dependent upon key customers.. We could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of a customer or customers. A prolonged decrease in capital spending by our railroad customers could negatively impact our sales and profitability. As a result of the ongoing litigation and termination of the amended 2005 concrete tie supply agreement with Union Pacific Railroad (\"UPRR\"), our CXT Concrete Tie sales to, and new orders from, UPRR have ceased which adversely affected our results beginning in 2015.. No assurances can be given that a significant downturn in the business or financial condition of a current customer, or customers, or potential litigation with a current customer, would not also impact our results of operations and/or financial condition.. An adverse outcome in any pending or future litigation or pending or future warranty claims against the Company or its subsidiaries or our determination that a customer has a substantial product warranty claim could negatively impact our financial results and/or our financial condition.. We are party to various legal proceedings. In addition, from time to time our customers assert claims against us relating to the warranties which apply to products we sell. There is the potential that a result materially adverse to us or our subsidiaries in pending or future legal proceedings or pending or future product warranty claims could materially exceed any accruals we have established and adversely affect our financial results and/or financial condition. In addition, we could suffer a significant loss of business from a customer who is dissatisfied with the resolution of a warranty claim. For example, UPRR terminated our amended 2005 concrete tie supply agreement over allegedly defective ties and reduced new orders for other products which negatively affected our results beginning in 2015.. 11. Table of Contents. In January 2015, UPRR filed a lawsuit against the Company asserting that we were in material breach of our amended 2005 concrete tie supply agreement with UPRR due to claimed failures to provide warranty ties to replace alleged defective concrete ties. UPRR seeks various types of relief including incidental, consequential, and other damages in amounts to be determined at trial under various legal theories. See Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 19 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein, for additional information regarding UPRR's lawsuit.. We continue to work with UPRR in an attempt to reach a resolution on this matter. However, such discussions may not be successful, and the results of litigation and any settlement or judgment amounts resulting from this matter may not be within the range of our estimated accrual. Consequently, while we believe the claims in the UPRR lawsuit are without merit, and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves and have asserted a counterclaim for damages in the UPRR lawsuit, an adverse outcome could result in a substantial judgment against us that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and capital resources. No assurances can be given that prior to any settlement or judgment, we will not recognize additional material charges because our warranty reserve accrual for UPRR is based upon our current estimate of the number of defective concrete ties that need to be replaced and facts could emerge which would cause us to materially increase this estimate.. A portion of our sales are derived from our international operations, which expose us to certain risks inherent in doing business on an international level.. Doing business outside the United States subjects the Company to various risks, including changing economic and political conditions, work stoppages, exchange controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts, and unexpected changes in United States and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments, and taxation. Increasing sales to foreign countries exposes the Company to increased risk of loss from foreign currency fluctuations and exchange controls as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. We have little control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions and, therefore, unable to alter our business practices in time to avoid the adverse effect of any of these possible changes.. Changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies may reduce international demand for our products or increase our labor or supply costs in non-U.S. markets. Fluctuations in the relative values of the United States dollar, Canadian dollar, British pound, and Euro may result in volatile earnings to reflect exchange rate translation in our Canadian and European sales and operations. If the United States dollar strengthens in value as compared to the value of the Canadian dollar, British pound, or Euro, our reported earnings in dollars from sales in those currencies will be unfavorable. Conversely, a favorable result will be reported if the United States dollar weakens in value as compared to the value of the Canadian dollar, British pound, or Euro.. Economic conditions and regulatory changes caused by the United Kingdom's pending exit from the European Union could adversely affect our business.. In June 2016, the United Kingdom (\"U.K.\") held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (\"E.U.\"), commonly referred to as \"Brexit\". The U.K. government has initiated a process to withdraw from the E.U. and has begun negotiating the terms of its separation. Since the announcement of Brexit, there has been volatility in currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar relative to the U.K. pound. The announcement of Brexit and pending withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. may also create market volatility and could continue to contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, political institutions, and regulatory agencies. The majority of our U.K. operations are heavily concentrated within the U.K. borders; however, this could adversely affect the future growth of our U.K. operations into other European locations. Our U.K. operations represented approximately 10% of our total revenue for the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015.. Material modification to NAFTA and certain other international trade agreements could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The current Presidential administration has made comments suggesting it is not supportive of certain international trade agreements, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"). At this time, it remains unclear what the current administration and Congress would or would not do with respect to these international trade agreements. While the Company is a net exporter out of the United States, potential material modifications to NAFTA, or certain other international trade agreements, may adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 12. Table of Contents. Violations of foreign governmental regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, could result in fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions against the Company, its officers, or both and could adversely affect our business.. Our foreign operations are subject to governmental regulations in the countries in which we operate as well as U.S. laws. These include regulations relating to currency conversion, repatriation of earnings, taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel, and the increasing requirement in some countries to make greater use of local employees and suppliers, including, in some jurisdictions, mandates that provide for greater local participation in the ownership and control of certain local business assets.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar other worldwide anti-corruption laws, such as the U.K. Bribery Act, prohibit improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Although we have established an internal control structure, corporate policies, compliance, and training processes to reduce the risk of violation, we cannot ensure that these procedures protect us from violations of such policies by our employees or agents. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could subject us to fines, penalties, and suspension or debarment from contracting. Events of non-compliance could harm our reputation, reduce our revenues and profits, and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. Violations of such laws or allegations of violation could disrupt our business and result in material adverse results to our operating results or future profitability.. Certain divisions of our business depend on a small number of suppliers. The loss of any such supplier could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and result of operations.. In our Rail Products businesses, we rely on a limited number of suppliers for key products that we sell to our customers. In addition, our Piling business is predominantly dependent upon one supplier for sheet piling while our Protective Coatings business is predominately dependent on two suppliers of epoxy coating. A significant downturn in the business of one or more of these suppliers, a disruption in their manufacturing operations, an unwillingness to continue to sell to us, or a disruption in the availability of existing and new piling and rail products may adversely impact our financial results.. Fluctuations in the price, quality, and availability of the primary raw materials used in our business could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability.. Most of our businesses utilize steel as a significant product component. The steel industry is cyclical and prices and availability are subject to these cycles as well as to international market forces. We also use significant amounts of cement and aggregate in our CXT Concrete Ties and Precast Concrete Products businesses. No assurances can be given that our financial results would not be adversely affected if prices or availability of these materials were to change in a significantly unfavorable manner.. Labor disputes may have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability.. Four of our manufacturing facilities are staffed by employees represented by labor unions. Approximately 146 employees employed at these facilities are currently working under three separate collective bargaining agreements. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to renegotiate acceptable contracts with these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, or lockouts, which could cause a disruption of our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. Actions of activist shareholders could be disruptive and potentially costly and the possibility that activist shareholders may seek changes that conflict with our strategic direction could cause uncertainty about the strategic direction of our business.. In February 2016, the Company entered into an agreement with an activist investor, Legion Partners Asset Management, LLC and various of its affiliates (collectively, \"Legion Partners\") that had filed a Schedule 13D with the SEC with respect to the Company. Pursuant to that agreement, the Company agreed to appoint a representative of Legion Partners to the Company's Board of Directors and Legion Partners agreed to various standstill provisions and to vote for the Company's director nominees at the Company's 2016 and 2017 Annual Meetings of Shareholders. This agreement expired by its terms on February 13, 2018.. 13. Table of Contents. Although our agreement with Legion Partners expired by its terms in February 2017, activist investors may attempt to effect changes in the Company's strategic direction and how the Company is governed, or to acquire control over the Company. Some investors seek to increase short-term shareholder value by advocating corporate actions such as financial restructuring, increased borrowing, special dividends, stock repurchases, or even sales of assets or the entire company. While the Company welcomes varying opinions from all shareholders, activist campaigns that contest or conflict with our strategic direction could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition as responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders can disrupt our operations, be costly and time-consuming, and divert the attention of the Company's board and senior management from the pursuit of business strategies. In addition, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of changes to the composition of our Board may lead to the perception of a change in the direction of the business, instability or lack of continuity, which may be exploited by our competitors, may cause concern to our current or potential customers, may result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners. These types of actions could cause significant fluctuations in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business.. Our success is highly dependent on the continued service and availability of qualified personnel.. Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, the executive team, and other highly skilled employees. Changes in demographics, training requirements, and the availability of qualified personnel could negatively affect our ability to compete and lead to a reduction in our profitability.. We may not foresee or be able to control certain events that could adversely affect our business.. Unexpected events including fires or explosions at our facilities, natural disasters, armed conflicts, unplanned outages, equipment failures, failure to meet product specifications, or a disruption in certain of our operations, may cause our operating costs to increase or otherwise impact our financial performance.. Shifting federal, state, local, and foreign regulatory policies impose risks to our operations.. We are subject to regulation by federal, state, local, and foreign regulatory agencies. We are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous authorizations, permits, approvals, and certificates from governmental agencies. Compliance with emerging regulatory initiatives, delays, discontinuations, or reversals of existing regulatory policies in the markets in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on previously deferred earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries, and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. Our 2017 financial results include a provisional tax expense of $3,298 related to the one-time transition tax, partially offset by a provisional $1,508 tax benefit related to the remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities. We will continue to refine our provisional tax amounts during 2018, as we gain a more thorough understanding of the tax law, as further guidance is issued, and as we evaluate our income tax accounting policies with regard to certain provisions of the Act.. A substantial portion of our operations are heavily dependent on governmental funding of infrastructure projects. Many of these projects have \"Buy America\" or \"Buy American\" provisions. Significant changes in the level of government funding of these projects could have a favorable or unfavorable impact on our operating results. Additionally, government actions concerning \"Buy America\" provisions, taxation, tariffs, the environment, or other matters could impact our operating results."
