[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information before deciding to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. We have attempted to identify below the major factors that could cause differences between actual and planned or expected results, but we cannot assure you that we have identified all of those factors.. If any of the following risks actually happen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. I.  RISK FACTORS RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE OPERATE. We are substantially dependent on the commercial success of GIAPREZATM (angiotensin II).. The near-term success of our business is largely dependent on our ability to successfully commercialize our recently approved product, GIAPREZATM (angiotensin II), our only commercial product. Although members of our management team have prior experience launching new products, GIAPREZA is the first product that the Company will have launched.. Even if our sales organization performs as expected, the revenue that we may receive from sales of GIAPREZA may be less than anticipated due to factors that are outside of our control. These factors that may impact revenue include:. • the perception of physicians and other members of the healthcare community of the safety and efficacy and cost-competitiveness relative to that of competing products;. • our ability to maintain successful sales, marketing and educational programs for certain physicians and other healthcare providers;. • our ability to raise patient and physician awareness;. • the cost-effectiveness of our product;. • acceptance by institutional formulary committees;. • patient and physician satisfaction with our product;. • the size of the potential market for our product;. • our ability to obtain adequate reimbursement from government and third-party payors;. • unfavorable publicity concerning our product or similar products;. • the introduction, availability and acceptance of competing treatments;. • adverse event information relating to our product or similar classes of drugs;. • product liability litigation alleging injuries relating to the product or similar classes of drugs;. • our ability to maintain and defend our patents for GIAPREZA;. • our ability to have GIAPREZA manufactured at a commercial production level successfully and on a timely basis;. • the availability of raw materials;. • our ability to access third parties to manufacture and distribute our product on acceptable terms or at all;. • regulatory developments related to the manufacture or continued use of our product;. • any post-approval study requirements and the results thereof;. • the extent and effectiveness of sales and marketing and distribution support for our product;. • our competitors' activities, including decisions as to the timing of competing product launches, generic entrants, pricing and discounting; and. • any other material adverse developments with respect to the potential commercialization of our product.. 12. Our business will be adversely affected if, due to these or other factors, our commercialization of GIAPREZA does not achieve the acceptance and demand necessary to sustain revenue growth. If we are unable to successfully commercialize GIAPREZA, our business and results of operations will suffer.. If we are unable to develop and maintain sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to sell and market GIAPREZA or any other products we may develop, our product sales may be hindered.. We are in the process of establishing an internal sales organization for the sale, marketing and distribution of GIAPREZA. In order to successfully commercialize any other product we may develop, we must increase our sales, marketing, distribution and other non-technical capabilities. The development of a sales organization to market GIAPREZA, or any other product we may develop, is expensive and time-consuming, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop this capacity or that this function will execute as expected. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, we may not be able to generate product revenue and our business and results of operations will suffer.. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under U.S. governmental pricing and contracting programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties and fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Medicare program and certain government pricing programs, including the Medicaid drug rebate program, the Public Health Services' 340B drug pricing program, and the pricing program under the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 impact the reimbursement we may receive from sales of GIAPREZA, or any other products that are approved for marketing. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among programs. The calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by manufacturers, governmental or regulatory agencies, and the courts. We are required to submit a number of different pricing calculations to government agencies on a quarterly basis. Failure to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under U.S. governmental pricing and contracting programs may result in additional payments, penalties and fines due to government agencies, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have only limited assets and will need to raise additional capital before we can expect to become profitable.. As of December 31, 2017, we had minimal revenue sources and available cash and cash equivalents of $90.9 million. To fund future operations to the point where we are able to generate positive cash flow from the sales or out-licensing of our product and product candidates, we will need to raise significant additional capital. The amount and timing of future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including the success of our commercialization efforts for GIAPREZA, the timing and results of our ongoing development efforts, the potential expansion of our current development programs, potential new development programs and related general and administrative support. We anticipate that we will seek to fund our operations through equity, debt or royalty-based financings or other sources, such as potential collaboration agreements. We cannot provide assurance that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Although we have previously been successful in obtaining financing through equity offerings, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. If we are unable to raise additional capital to fund our clinical development, commercialization efforts, and other business activities, we could be forced to abandon one or more programs and curtail or cease our operations.. We have never generated any revenue from product sales and may never be profitable.. We have a single product approved for commercialization and have never generated any revenue from product sales. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends on our ability, alone or with strategic collaboration partners, to successfully commercialize GIAPREZA and to complete the development of, and obtain the regulatory and marketing approvals necessary to commercialize our other product candidates in development. Our ability to generate revenue from product sales depends heavily on our success in many areas, including but not limited to:. • successfully completing research and nonclinical and clinical development of our product candidates;. • obtaining regulatory and marketing approvals for product candidates for which we complete clinical trials;. • launching and commercializing product candidates for which we obtain regulatory and marketing approval, either directly or with a collaborator or distributor;. • obtaining market acceptance of our product candidates as viable treatment options;. • addressing any competing technological and market developments;. • identifying, assessing, acquiring or developing new product candidates;. 13. • negotiating favorable terms in any collaboration, licensing or other arrangements into which we may enter;. • maintaining, protecting and expanding our portfolio of intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets and know-how; and. • attracting, hiring and retaining qualified personnel.. We anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing GIAPREZA and any other approved product candidate. Our expenses could increase beyond expectations if we are required by the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory agencies, domestic or foreign, to change our manufacturing processes or assays, or to perform additional clinical, nonclinical or other types of studies in addition to those that we currently anticipate. In cases such as GIAPREZA where we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals to market our product candidates, our revenue will be dependent, in part, on the size of the markets in the territories for which we gain regulatory approval, the accepted price for the product, the ability to get reimbursement at any price, and whether we own the commercial rights for that territory. If the number of our addressable patients is not as significant as we estimate, the indication approved by regulatory authorities is narrower than we expect, or the reasonably accepted population for treatment is narrowed by competition, physician choice or treatment guidelines, we may be unable to generate significant revenue from sales of approved products.. Results from any future clinical trials we may undertake may not be sufficient to obtain regulatory approvals to market our product candidates in the U.S. or other countries on a timely basis, if at all.. Product candidates are subject to extensive government regulations related to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. In order to sell any product that is under development, we must first receive regulatory approval. To obtain regulatory approval, we must conduct clinical trials and toxicology studies that demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective. The process of obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals is costly, time-consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays.. The FDA, EMA and other foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may not agree that we have demonstrated that our product candidates are safe and effective. If our product candidates are ultimately not found to be safe and effective, we would be unable to obtain regulatory approval to manufacture, market and sell them. We can provide no assurances that the FDA, EMA or other foreign regulatory authorities will approve our product candidates or, if approved, what the scope of the approved indication might be.. Clinical drug development involves a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of earlier studies may not be predictive of future study results.. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. The results of nonclinical studies and early clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates that have shown promising results in early-stage clinical trials may still suffer significant setbacks in subsequent clinical trials. For example, the safety or efficacy results generated to date in our clinical trials do not ensure that later clinical trials will demonstrate similar results. There is a high failure rate for drugs proceeding through clinical trials, and product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy, despite having progressed through nonclinical studies and initial clinical trials. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier studies. Moreover, nonclinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses. We do not know whether any clinical trials we may conduct will demonstrate consistent or adequate efficacy and safety sufficient to obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates.. Future clinical trials that we may undertake may be delayed or halted.. Any clinical trials of our product candidates that we may conduct in the future may be delayed or halted for various reasons, including:. • we do not have sufficient financial resources;. • supplies of drug product are not sufficient to treat the patients in the studies;. • patients do not enroll in the studies at the rate we expect;. • the product candidates are not effective;. • patients experience negative side effects or other safety concerns are raised during treatment;. 14. • the trials are not conducted in accordance with applicable clinical practices;. • there is political unrest at foreign clinical sites; or. • there are natural disasters at any of our clinical sites.. If any future trials are delayed or halted, we may incur significant additional expenses, and our potential approval of our product candidates may be delayed, which could have a severe negative effect on our business.. We rely on third parties to conduct our preclinical and clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates and our business could be substantially harmed.. We have agreements with third-party contract research organizations (CROs) to monitor and manage data for our preclinical and clinical programs. We rely heavily on these parties for execution of our preclinical and clinical trials, and control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific standards, and our reliance on CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We and our CROs are required to comply with current good clinical practices (cGCPs), which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA, EMA and other foreign regulatory authorities for products in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce these cGCPs through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of these CROs fail to comply with applicable cGCP regulations, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA, EMA and other foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, on inspection, such regulatory authorities will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with the cGCP regulations. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under cGMP regulations and will require a large number of test subjects. Our or our CROs' failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process.. If any of our relationships with these third-party CROs terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs or to do so on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, our CROs are not our employees, and except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such CROs, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing preclinical and clinical programs. If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. As a result, we may incur significant additional expenses, and our potential approval of our product candidates may be delayed, which could have a severe negative effect on our business.. If the third-party manufacturers on which we rely fail to produce the materials that we require on a timely basis, or to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may face commercial supply shortages, delays in the trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of our product and product candidates.. We do not manufacture GIAPREZA or any of our product candidates, nor do we plan to develop any capacity to do so. Instead, we contract with third-party manufacturers to manufacture and supply GIAPREZA and all of our product candidates. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, which include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. The third-party manufacturers we contract with may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. Although we believe that we could identify and qualify alternate suppliers if necessary, the steps needed for a pharmaceutical manufacturer to implement a validated manufacturing process can be time-consuming and costly. As a result, and because we currently have only a single manufacturer for GIAPREZA, termination of this manufacturing relationship or a disruption in their manufacturing facilities could adversely affect the available commercial supply of GIAPREZA. Further, certain critical materials used in manufacturing GIAPREZA have historically been sourced from single suppliers. An interruption in the supply of a key material could also significantly impact our ability to meet the demand for GIAPREZA.. Any facilities in which our product or product candidates are manufactured or tested for their ability to meet required specifications must be inspected by and approved by the FDA and/or the EMA before a commercial product can be. 15. manufactured. Failure of such a facility to be approved could delay the commercial sale or approval of one or more of our products or product candidates.. Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend any future commercial sales, clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of one or more of our products or product candidates, entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively commercialize products.. Our success in developing and marketing our product and product candidates depends significantly on our ability to obtain patent protection and operate without infringing on the rights of others.. We depend on patents and other intellectual property to prevent others from improperly benefiting from products or technologies that we sell, develop or acquire. Our patents and patent applications cover various technologies, product and product candidates. The patent position of biotechnology firms like ours is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions, and no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims covered in biotechnology patents or the protection afforded by these patents. Additionally, recent U.S. Supreme Court and Federal Circuit opinions further limit the scope of patentable inventions in the life sciences space and have added increased uncertainty around the validity of certain issued patents and the successful prosecution of certain pending patent applications. We intend to continue to file patent applications as we believe is appropriate to obtain patents covering both our products and processes. There can be no assurance, however, that any additional patents will be issued, that the scope of any patent that has issued or may issue will be sufficient to protect our technology, or that any current or future issued patent will be held not invalid if subsequently challenged. There is a substantial backlog of biotechnology patent applications at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), which may delay the review and issuance of any patents.. Others, including our competitors, could have patents or patent applications pending that relate to compounds or processes that overlap or compete with our intellectual property or which may affect our freedom to operate.. There can be no assurance that third-party patents will not ultimately be found to impact the sales of GIAPREZA or the advancement of our product candidates. While we intend to challenge the issuance and validity of this patent, we may not be successful. If the USPTO or any foreign counterpart issues or has issued any other patents containing competitive or conflicting claims, and if these claims are valid, the protection provided by our existing patents or any future patents that may be issued could be significantly reduced, and our ability to prevent competitors from developing products or technologies identical or similar to ours could be negatively affected. In addition, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to obtain licenses to these patents on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that we would be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. Our failure to obtain a license to a technology or process that may be required to develop or commercialize one or more of our product candidates may have a material adverse effect on our business.. We do not have complete patent protection for GIAPREZA or our other product candidates, as the active pharmaceutical ingredients in GIAPREZA and our other product candidates are known compounds that are not themselves covered by composition of matter patents, and thus may only be protected by formulation or method-of-use patents (to the extent that such patents are granted and are enforceable) and/or regulatory exclusivity (to the extent available). Therefore, it is possible that a competitor could develop the same or similar technology if we fail to obtain protection of this type. We may have to incur significant expense and management time in defending or enforcing our patents. If we cannot obtain and maintain effective patent rights and/or regulatory exclusivity for our product candidates, we may not be able to compete effectively and our business and results of operations would be harmed.. Patent policy and rule changes could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents.. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the U.S. and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all. We therefore cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions claimed in our owned and licensed patents or pending applications, or that we or our licensor were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions.. Assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, in the U.S. prior to March 15, 2013, the first to make the claimed invention is entitled to the patent, while outside the U.S., the first to file a patent application is entitled to the patent. After March 15, 2013, under the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (Leahy-Smith Act), enacted on September 16, 2011, the. 16. U.S. has moved to a first-to-file system. The Leahy-Smith Act also includes a number of significant changes that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The effects of these changes are currently unclear as the USPTO must still implement various regulations, the courts have yet to address any of these provisions and the applicability of the act and new regulations on specific patents discussed herein have not been determined and would need to be reviewed. In general, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. If our product candidates infringe the rights of others, we could be subject to expensive litigation or be required to obtain licenses from others to develop or market them.. Our competitors or others may have patent rights that they choose to assert against us or our licensees, suppliers, customers or potential collaborators. Moreover, we may not know about patents or patent applications that our products would infringe. For example, because patent applications do not publish for at least 18 months, if at all, and can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications unknown to us that may later result in issued patents that our product candidates would infringe. In addition, if third parties file patent applications or obtain patents claiming technology also claimed by us or our licensors in issued patents or pending applications, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the USPTO to determine priority of invention. If third parties file oppositions in foreign countries, we may also have to participate in opposition proceedings in foreign tribunals to defend the patentability of our foreign patent applications.. If a third party claims that we infringe its proprietary rights, any of the following may occur:. • we may become involved in time-consuming and expensive litigation, even if the claim is without merit;. • we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technology infringes a competitor's patent;. • a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; and. • we may have to redesign our product candidates or technology so that they do not infringe patent rights of others, which may not be possible or commercially feasible.. If any of these events occur, our business and prospects will suffer and the market price of our common stock will likely decline substantially.. The patent protection and patent prosecution for some of our product and product candidates is dependent on third parties.. While we normally seek and gain the right to fully prosecute the patents relating to our product and product candidates, there may be times when patents relating to our product candidates are controlled by our licensors. If any of our future licensing partners fail to appropriately prosecute and maintain patent protection for patents covering any of our product candidates, our ability to develop and commercialize those product candidates may be materially adversely affected and we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using, selling and importing competing products. In addition, even where we now have the right to control patent prosecution of patents and patent applications we have licensed from third parties, we may still be adversely affected or prejudiced by actions or inactions of our licensors and their counsel that took place prior to us assuming control over patent prosecution.. In addition to patent protection, we will need to successfully preserve our trade secrets. If we are unable to maintain effective proprietary rights for our product candidates or any future product candidates, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets.. In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable or that we elect not to patent, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and any other elements of our product candidate discovery and development processes that involve information or technology that is not covered by patents. However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors, and contractors. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data and trade secrets by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems. While we have confidence in these individuals, organizations and systems, agreements or security measures may be breached, and we may not. 17. have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors.. Although we expect all of our employees and consultants to assign their inventions to us, and all of our employees, consultants, advisors, and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information, or technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot provide any assurances that all such agreements have been duly executed, that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of our trade secrets could impair our competitive position and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, if the steps taken to maintain our trade secrets are deemed inadequate, we may have insufficient recourse against third parties for misappropriating our trade secrets.. If we fail to obtain orphan or other regulatory exclusivity for our product and product candidates, we may face greater commercial competition and our revenue will be reduced.. Regulatory authorities in some jurisdictions, including the U.S. and EU may designate drugs for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. Our business strategy for certain of our product and product candidates includes seeking orphan drug designation. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a product as an orphan drug if it is intended to treat a rare disease or condition, defined as a patient population of fewer than 200,000 in the U.S., or a patient population greater than 200,000 in the U.S. where there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing the drug will be recovered from sales in the U.S. In the EU, the EMA's Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products grants orphan drug designation to promote the development of products that are intended for the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition affecting not more than 5 in 10,000 persons in the EU. If orphan drug status is granted, we may be eligible for a period of commercial exclusivity, which would afford us additional protection from generic competition, beyond that protection that may be afforded by patents. Even if a particular disease has a small patient population that we believe may be eligible for orphan status, it is possible that the FDA or EMA may not grant orphan status. If we do not obtain orphan drug exclusivity for our drug products and biologic products, particularly for any products that do not have broad patent protection, our competitors may then sell the same drug to treat the same condition sooner than if we had obtained orphan drug exclusivity and our revenue could be reduced.. Because a number of companies compete with us, many of which have greater resources than we do, and because we face rapid changes in technology in our industry, we cannot be certain that our products will be accepted in the marketplace or capture market share.. Competition from domestic and foreign biotechnology companies, large pharmaceutical companies and other institutions is intense and is expected to increase. A number of companies and institutions are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals in our targeted areas. Many of these companies are very large and have financial, technical, sales and distribution and other resources substantially greater than ours. The greater resources of these competitors could enable them to develop or market competing products more quickly or effectively, making it extremely difficult for us to develop a share of the market for our products. These competitors also include companies that are conducting clinical trials and preclinical studies in the field of cancer therapeutics. Our competitors may develop or obtain regulatory approval for products more rapidly than we do. Also, the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid changes in technology. Our competitors may develop and market technologies and products that are more effective or less costly than those we are developing or that would render our technology and proposed products obsolete or noncompetitive.. Our product and product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their market acceptance or regulatory approval, limit the commercial profile of an approved label, or result in significant negative consequences following marketing approval, if any.. Undesirable side effects caused by our product or product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay, or halt clinical trials and commercial sales and could result in a more restrictive label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other comparable foreign authorities. Results of our studies could reveal a high and unacceptable severity and prevalence of undesirable side effects. In such an event, our studies could be suspended or terminated, and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order us to cease further development of or deny or withdraw approval of our product or product candidates for any or all targeted indications.. The drug-related side effects could affect commercial sales, patient recruitment, the ability of enrolled patients to complete the study, or result in potential product liability claims. We carry product liability insurance in the amount of $10.0 million in the aggregate. We believe our product liability insurance coverage is sufficient in light of our clinical programs;. 18. however, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could adversely affect our results of operations and business. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in impairment of our business reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial participants, costs due to related litigation, distraction of management's attention from our primary business, initiation of investigations by regulators, substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants, the inability to commercialize our product candidates and decreased demand for our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale.. Additionally, if one or more of our product candidates receives marketing approval, and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by such products, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including but not limited to:. • regulatory authorities may withdraw approvals of such product;. • regulatory authorities may require additional warnings on the label;. • we may be required to create a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) plan, which could include a medication guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients, a communication plan for healthcare providers, and/or other elements to assure safe use;. • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and. • our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the particular product and could significantly harm our business, results of operations, and prospects.. Our product and product candidates are subject to regulatory scrutiny.. As an approved product, GIAPREZA is subject to ongoing regulatory requirements for manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, sampling, record-keeping, pharmacovigilance, conduct of post-marketing studies and submission of safety, efficacy and other post-market information, including both federal and state requirements in the U.S. and requirements of comparable foreign regulatory authorities.. Manufacturers and manufacturers' facilities are required to comply with extensive FDA, and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, requirements, including ensuring that quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMP regulations. As such, we and our contract manufacturers will be subject to continual review and inspections to assess compliance with cGMP and adherence to commitments made in any NDA, biologic license application (BLA), or market authorization application (MAA). Accordingly, we and others with whom we work must continue to expend time, money, and effort in all areas of regulatory compliance, including manufacturing, production and quality control.. Any regulatory approvals that we have received or may receive for our product and product candidates are and may be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials, and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product candidate. We will be required to report certain adverse reactions and production problems, if any, to the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Any new legislation addressing drug safety issues could result in delays in product development or commercialization, or increased costs to assure compliance. We will have to comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotion for our products. Promotional communications with respect to prescription drugs are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions and must be consistent with the information in the product's approved label. As such, we may not promote our products for indications or uses for which they do not have approval. The holder of an approved NDA, BLA, or MAA must submit new or supplemental applications and obtain approval for certain changes to the approved product, product labeling or manufacturing process. We could also be asked to conduct post-marketing clinical trials to verify the safety and efficacy of our products in general or in specific patient subsets. If original marketing approval were obtained via the accelerated approval pathway, we could be required to conduct a successful post-marketing clinical trial to confirm clinical benefit for our products. An unsuccessful post-marketing study or failure to complete such a study could result in the withdrawal of marketing approval.. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, or disagrees with the promotion, marketing or labeling of a product, such regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency or enforcement authority may, among other things:. 19. • issue warning letters;. • impose civil or criminal penalties;. • suspend or withdraw regulatory approval;. • suspend any of our ongoing clinical trials;. • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications submitted by us;. • impose restrictions on our operations, including closing our contract manufacturers' facilities; or. • seize or detain products, or require a product recall.. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response, and could generate negative publicity. Any failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may significantly and adversely affect our ability to commercialize and generate revenue from our products. If regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is withdrawn, the value of our Company and our operating results will be adversely affected.. We may not be successful in our efforts to identify, license, discover, develop, or commercialize additional product candidates.. Although a substantial amount of our effort will focus on the continued clinical testing, potential approval, and commercialization of our existing product candidates, the success of our business also depends on our ability to identify, license, discover, develop or commercialize additional product candidates. Research programs to identify new product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources. We may focus our efforts and resources on potential programs or product candidates that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful. Our research programs or licensing efforts may fail to yield additional product candidates for clinical development and commercialization for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following:. • our research or business development methodology or search criteria and process may be unsuccessful in identifying potential product candidates;. • we may not be able or willing to assemble sufficient resources to acquire or discover additional product candidates;. • our product candidates may not succeed in preclinical or clinical testing;. • our potential product candidates may be shown to have harmful side effects or may have other characteristics that may make the products unmarketable or unlikely to receive marketing approval;. • competitors may develop alternatives that render our product candidates obsolete or less attractive;. • product candidates we develop may be covered by third parties' patents or other exclusive rights;. • the market for a product candidate may change during our program so that such a product may become unreasonable to continue to develop;. • a product candidate may not be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all; and. • a product candidate may not be accepted as safe and effective by patients, the medical community or third-party payors.. If any of these events occur, we may be forced to abandon our development efforts for a program or programs, or we may not be able to identify, license, discover, develop or commercialize additional product candidates, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and could potentially cause us to cease operations.. If the market opportunities for our products are smaller than we believe, our revenue may be adversely affected, and our business may suffer.. Our estimates of the potential market opportunity for each of our products include several key assumptions based on our industry knowledge, industry publications, third-party research reports and other surveys. For example, GIAPREZA was approved for use in adult patients with septic or other distributive shock. However, determining the approximate number of hypotension patients in a given market requires numerous estimates and assumptions. While we believe that our internal assumptions are reasonable, no independent source has verified such assumptions. If any of these assumptions proves to be inaccurate, then the actual market for our product candidates could be smaller than our estimates of our potential market opportunity. If the actual market for our products is smaller than we estimate, our product revenue may be limited and it may be more difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability.. 20. We are subject to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws, false claims laws and health information privacy and security laws. If we are unable to comply, or have not fully complied, with such laws, we could face substantial penalties.. Our operations are subject to various federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal FCA and physician sunshine laws and regulations. These laws impact, among other things, our sales, marketing and education programs. In addition, we are subject to patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that affect our ability to operate include:. • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce, or in return for, the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. • federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent;. • HIPAA, which created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. • HIPAA, as amended by the federal Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and its implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;. • the federal physician sunshine requirements under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Health Care Reform Laws) require manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics, and medical supplies to report annually to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians, other healthcare providers, and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and other healthcare providers and their immediate family members and applicable group purchasing organizations; and. • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available, our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. In addition, recent healthcare reform legislation has strengthened these laws. For example, the Health Care Reform Laws, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal healthcare fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. Moreover, the Health Care Reform Laws provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, imprisonment and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations.. 21. Current and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost needed to obtain marketing approval, and the subsequent commercialization, of our product candidates and affect the prices we may obtain.. In the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval.. For example, in 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, (collectively, the PPACA). Among the provisions of the PPACA of importance to our potential product candidates are the following:. • an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents;. • an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program;. • expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance;. • a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices;. • extension of manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability;. • expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs;. • new requirements to report financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals;. • a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians; and. • a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. These changes included aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year. Additionally, in January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. Further, while the healthcare reform agenda and policies of the new Trump administration are not fully known, it is possible that additional regulatory changes, as well as the repeal (in whole or in part) of the PPACA, could negatively affect insurance coverage and drug prices. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding.. We expect that the PPACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payers. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability, or commercialize our products.. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. Additionally, legislation has been introduced to repeal the PPACA. We cannot be sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of our product candidates, if any, may be. In addition, increased scrutiny by the U.S. Congress of the FDA's approval process may significantly delay or prevent marketing approval, as well as subject us to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements.. Governments outside the U.S. tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our revenues, if any.. In some countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available. 22. therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be harmed, possibly materially.. We rely on certain key employees, and the loss of their service could negatively impact our future success.. We have only a small number of employees, and we rely on the services of certain key employees, including George F. Tidmarsh, M.D. Ph.D., who serves as our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Dr. Tidmarsh or other key employees could negatively affect our ability to execute on our business plan and development activities and could cause a decline in our stock price.. II.  RISK FACTORS RELATED SPECIFICALLY TO OUR STOCK. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 22.2 million shares of common stock outstanding and currently may be required to issue up to a total of approximately 13.6 million additional shares of common stock upon conversion of existing convertible preferred stock and upon exercise of outstanding stock option grants and warrants. Such an issuance would be significantly dilutive to our existing common shareholders. You will experience further dilution if we issue additional equity securities in future fundraising transactions.. As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 3,906 shares of Series C-12 Convertible Preferred Stock and approximately 2,737 shares of Series F Convertible Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. In light of the conversion rate of our preferred stock (approximately 1,724 shares of common stock are issuable upon the conversion of one share of Series C-12 Convertible Preferred Stock, and approximately 286 shares of common stock are issuable upon the conversion of one share of Series F Convertible Preferred Stock), the presence of such a large number of convertible preferred shares may dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders and provide the preferred investors with a sizeable interest in the Company.. Assuming the conversion of all preferred stock into common stock at the current conversion rates, and the exercise of all outstanding options and warrants, we would have approximately 35.8 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding following any such conversion and exercise, although the issuance of the common stock upon the conversion of our preferred stock is limited by a 9.999% beneficial ownership cap for each preferred shareholder, which such cap may be amended or waived by each such holder with no less than 61 days' notice to the Company. With approximately 22.2 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2017, the issuance of this number of shares of common stock underlying the convertible preferred stock and outstanding stock options and warrants would represent approximately 38% dilution to our existing shareholders.. In addition, we may choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations, even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of these securities could result in further dilution to our shareholders or result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock.. The price of our common stock has been, and will be, volatile and may decline.. Our stock has historically experienced significant price and volume volatility and could continue to be volatile. Market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including ours, have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following factors, among others, can have a significant effect on the market price of our securities:. • significant conversions of preferred stock into common stock and sales of those shares of common stock;. • results from our preclinical studies and clinical trials;. • limited financial resources;. • announcements regarding financings, mergers or other strategic transactions;. • future sales of significant amounts of our capital stock by us or our shareholders;. • developments in patent or other proprietary rights;. • developments concerning potential agreements with collaborators; and. 23. • general market conditions and comments by securities analysts.. The realization of any of the risks described in these \"Risk Factors\" could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation is sometimes instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition.. Because we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment.. We have paid no cash dividends on our common stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and payment of cash dividends, if any, will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Furthermore, we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. Accordingly, the success of your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your shares, and you may not realize a return on your investment in our common stock."
