[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. Our business is subject to a variety of risks. Interest rates, consumer confidence, housing starts and the overall housing market, increased unemployment, tightening of the financial and consumer credit markets, downturns in the economy, and other general economic factors that affect many other businesses are particularly significant to us because our principal products are consumer goods.. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may significantly affect our business. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or that we do not currently deem significant may also become important factors that affect us at a later date. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the other information provided in this document and our subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any of the following risks could significantly and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delays that could result in our inability to provide goods to our customers or could increase our costs, either of which could decrease our earnings.. In manufacturing furniture, we use various types of wood, fabrics, leathers, upholstered filling material including polyurethane foam, steel, and other raw materials. Because we are dependent on outside suppliers for our raw materials, fluctuations in their price, availability, and quality could have a negative effect on our cost of sales and our ability to meet our customers' demands. Competitive and marketing pressures may prevent us from passing along price increases to our customers, and the inability to meet our customers' demands could cause us to lose sales. We have a higher concentration in upholstery sales, including motion furniture, than many of our competitors, and the effects of steel, polyurethane foam, wood, electrical. 10. Table of Contents. components for power units, leather and fabric price increases or quantity shortages could be significant to our business.. About 50% of our polyurethane foam comes from one supplier. This supplier has several facilities across the United States, but severe weather or natural disasters could result in delays in shipments of polyurethane foam to our plants.. A change in the financial condition of some of our domestic and foreign fabric suppliers could impede their ability to provide products to us in a timely manner. Upholstered furniture is fashion oriented, and if we were unable to acquire sufficient fabric variety, or to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends, we might lose sales and have to sell excess inventory at reduced prices. Doing so would have a negative effect on our sales and earnings.. Changes in United States trade policy, availability and cost of foreign sourcing, and economic uncertainty in countries outside of the United States in which we operate or from which we purchase product, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We have operations in countries outside the United States, some of which are located in emerging markets. Long-term economic and political uncertainty in some of the countries in which we operate, such as the United Kingdom, Mexico and Thailand, could result in the disruption of markets and negatively affect our business. Our Casegoods segment imports products manufactured by foreign sources, mainly in China and Vietnam, and our Upholstery segment purchases cut-and-sewn fabric and leather sets, electronic component parts, and some finished goods from Chinese and other foreign vendors. Our cut-and-sewn leather sets are primarily purchased from four suppliers that operate in China, and the majority of our fabric products are purchased from three suppliers that also operate in China. One of these primary suppliers provides both cut-and-sewn leather sets and fabric products. Our sourcing partners may not be able to produce goods in a timely fashion or the quality of their product may lead us to reject it, causing disruptions in our domestic operations and delays in our shipments to our customers.. There are other risks that are inherent in our operations, including the potential for changes in socio-economic conditions, changes in laws and regulations, including import, export, labor and environmental laws, port strikes, tariffs, duties and trade barriers, monetary and fiscal policies, investments, taxation, and exchange controls. Additionally, unsettled political conditions, possible terrorist attacks, organized crime, and public health concerns present a risk to our operations. All of these items could make servicing our customers more difficult or cause disruptions in our plants that could reduce our sales, earnings, or both in the future.. Changes in the political environment in the United States may also have a material adverse effect on our business in the future or require us to modify our current business practices. Because we manufacture components in Mexico and purchase components and finished goods manufactured in foreign countries including China, we are subject to risks relating to increased tariffs on U.S. imports, changes in the North American Free Trade Agreement, and other changes affecting imports. Our business in the United Kingdom could be affected by the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union, and our sales and margins there and in other foreign countries could be adversely affected by the imposition in foreign countries of import bans, quotas, and increases in tariffs.. Inability to maintain and enhance our brand and respond to changes in our current and potential consumers' tastes and trends in a timely manner could adversely affect our business and operating results.. The success of our business depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brands to increase our business by retaining consumers and attracting new ones. Furniture product is fashion oriented so changes in consumers' tastes and trends and the resultant change in our product mix, as well as failure to offer our. 11. Table of Contents. consumers multiple avenues for purchasing our products, could adversely affect our business and operating results. We attempt to minimize these risks by maintaining strong advertising and marketing campaigns promoting our brands. We also attempt to minimize our risk by updating our current product designs, styles, quality, prices, and options to purchase our products in-store or online. If these efforts were unsuccessful or required us to incur substantial costs, our business, operating results and financial or competitive condition could be adversely affected.. Loss of market share and other financial or operational difficulties due to competition would likely result in a decrease in our sales, earnings, and liquidity.. The residential furniture industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with many other manufacturers and retailers, including online retailers, some of which offer widely advertised products, and others, several of which are large retail furniture dealers offering their own store-branded products. Competition in the residential furniture industry is based on quality, style of products, perceived value, price, service to the customer, promotional activities, and advertising. The highly competitive nature of the industry means we are constantly subject to the risk of losing market share, which would likely decrease our future sales, earnings, and liquidity. In addition, due to the large number of competitors and their wide range of product offerings, we may not be able to differentiate our products (through styling, finish, and other construction techniques) from those of our competitors. Additionally, a majority of our sales are to distribution channels that rely on physical stores to merchandise and sell our products and a significant shift in consumer preference toward purchasing products online could have a materially adverse impact on our sales and operating margin. In the past several fiscal years we have experienced lower traffic to our company-owned stores, similar to other furniture retailers, as consumers have shifted to purchasing more furniture products online. We are attempting to meet these consumers where they prefer to shop by expanding our online capabilities and improving the user experience at la-z-boy.com to drive more traffic to both our online site and our physical stores. These and other competitive pressures could result in a decrease in our sales, earnings, and liquidity.. Our current retail markets and other markets that we enter in the future may not achieve the growth and profitability we anticipate. We could incur charges for the impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill, or other intangible assets if we fail to meet our earnings expectations for these markets.. From time to time we acquire retail locations and related assets, remodel and relocate existing stores, experiment with new store formats, and close underperforming stores. Our assets include goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets acquired in connection with these acquisitions. Profitability of acquired, remodeled, relocated, and new format stores will depend on lease rates (for stores we lease) and retail sales and profitability justifying the costs of acquisition, remodeling, and relocation. If we do not meet our sales or earnings expectations for these stores, we may incur charges for the impairment of long-lived assets, the impairment of goodwill, or the impairment of other indefinite-lived intangible assets.. We operate a wholesale sales office that is responsible for distributing La-Z-Boy products in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Our assets include goodwill and other intangible assets, including acquired customer relationships, in connection with our acquisition of this business. If we do not meet our sales or earnings expectations for this operation, we may incur charges for the impairment of goodwill or the impairment of our intangible assets.. Changes in regulation of our international operations could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Because we have operations outside of the United States and sell product in various countries, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including the UK Bribery Act 2010, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. These laws include prohibitions on improper payments to government officials, restrictions on where we can do business, what products we can supply to. 12. Table of Contents. certain countries, and what information we can provide to certain governments. We are also subject to laws and regulations on the collection and use of electronic data, including the General Data Protection Regulation that became effective in May 2018 in the European Union and subjects violators that operate in the European Union to penalties of up to 4% of their global revenue. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a significant adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies.. We rely extensively on information technology systems to process transactions, summarize results, and manage our business and that of certain independent dealers. Disruptions in both our primary and back-up systems could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our primary and back-up information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, viruses, phishing attempts, cyber attacks, security breaches, natural disasters, and errors by employees. Though losses arising from some of these issues would be covered by insurance, interruptions of our critical business information technology systems or failure of our back-up systems could reduce our sales or result in longer production times. If our critical information technology systems or back-up systems were damaged or ceased to function properly, we might have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them.. We may be subject to product liability claims or undertake to recall one or more products, with a negative impact on our financial results and reputation.. Millions of our products, sold over many years, are currently used by consumers. We may be named as a defendant in lawsuits instituted by persons allegedly injured while using one of our products. We have insurance that we believe is adequate to cover such claims, but we are self-insured for the first $1.5 million in liability and for all defense costs. Furthermore, such claims could damage our brands and reputation and negatively affect our operating results. We have voluntarily recalled products in the past, and while none of those recalls has resulted in a material expense or other significant adverse effect, it is possible that recalls could result in future additional expense, penalties, and injury to our brands and reputation, and negatively impact our operating results.. Our business and our reputation could be adversely affected by cybersecurity incidents and the failure to protect sensitive employee, customer, consumer, vendor or Company data, or to comply with evolving regulations relating to our obligation to protect such data.. Cyber attacks designed to gain access to sensitive information by breaching security systems of large organizations leading to unauthorized release of confidential information have occurred over the last several years at a number of major U.S. companies. Despite widespread recognition of the cyber attack threat and improved data protection methods, cyber attacks on organizations continue to be persistent and ever-changing making it difficult to prevent and detect these attacks. Similar to many other retailers, we receive and store certain personal information about our employees, customers, consumers, and vendors. Additionally, we rely on third-party service providers to execute certain business processes and maintain certain information technology systems and infrastructure, and we supply such third-party providers with the personal information required for those services.. During fiscal 2018, we were subject, and will likely continue to be subject, to attempts to breach the security of our networks and IT infrastructure through cyber attack, malware, computer viruses, and other means of unauthorized access. To the best of our knowledge, attempts to breach our systems have not been successful to date. A breach of our systems that resulted in the unauthorized release of sensitive data could adversely affect our reputation, drive existing and potential customers away, lead to financial losses from remedial actions or potential liability, possibly including punitive damages, or we could incur regulatory fines or. 13. Table of Contents. penalties. An electronic security breach resulting in the unauthorized release of sensitive data from our information systems or those of our third party service providers could also materially increase the costs we already incur to protect against these risks. We continue to balance the additional risk with the cost to protect us against a breach, and have taken steps to ensure that losses arising from a breach would be covered in part by insurance that we carry.. Changes in the inputs we used to calculate our acquisition-related contingent consideration liabilities could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. Certain acquisitions include contingent consideration liabilities relating to payments based on the future performance of the operations acquired. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to estimate the fair value of any contingent consideration. Our estimates of fair value are based on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but the assumptions are uncertain and involve significant judgment by management. Changes in business conditions or other events could materially change the projection of future cash flows or the discount rate we used in the fair value calculation of the contingent consideration. We reassess the fair value quarterly, and we record in our results of operations increases or decreases based on the actual or expected future performance of the acquired operations. These quarterly adjustments could have a material effect on our results of operations."
