[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. You should carefully consider all of the risks described below regarding our company. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business operations.. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business. Damage to our reputation could adversely impact our business.. Maintaining our reputation is critical to our ability to attract and retain financial advisors, clients and employees, and our failure, or perceived failure, to appropriately operate our business or deal with matters that give rise to reputational risk may materially and adversely harm our business, prospects and results of operations. Those matters giving rise to reputational risk include the risks discussed in this Item 1A, as well as appropriately dealing with legal and regulatory requirements, anti money-laundering practices, privacy, record keeping, and sales and trading practices, as well as our proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in financial products. Also, our inability to sell securities that we have underwritten on expected terms, including anticipated prices, could result in reputational damage that results in our loss of investment banking business, which would adversely impact our Ladenburg segment. Our failure to deliver appropriate standards of service and quality, or our failure or perceived failure to treat clients fairly, could result in customer dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and harm to our reputation. Further, negative publicity regarding us or our financial advisors, whether or not true, may be detrimental to our business.. Changing conditions in financial markets and the economy could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our financial results have been adversely affected by turmoil in the financial markets in the past and may again be impacted in the future. As a financial services firm, changes in the financial markets or economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere in the world could materially adversely affect our business in many ways, including the following:. • a market downturn could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions executed for customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads;. • low interest rates adversely impact interest sharing revenues received from our clearing firms and other cash sweep programs;. • adverse changes in the market could lead to a reduction in revenues from asset management fees. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market investment performance by portfolio managers could reduce asset management revenues and assets under management and result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors;. 14. • unfavorable financial or economic conditions could reduce the number and size of transactions in which we provide underwriting, financial advisory and other services. Our investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory and underwriting or placement fees, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and therefore could be adversely affected by unfavorable financial or economic conditions;. • increases in credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit, can affect our ability to borrow on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations;. • adverse changes in the market could lead to losses from principal transactions. To the extent that we own assets, i.e., have long positions, a downturn in the market could result in losses from a decline in the value of those long positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets that we do not own, i.e., have short positions, an upturn in the market could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market; and. • new or increased taxes on compensation payments such as bonuses or securities transactions may adversely affect our financial results.. We have incurred, and may again incur, significant losses.. We incurred significant losses in 2017, 2016, 2015 and in various prior years. We cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability or have positive cash flow on either a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and sustain our profitability, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We have a significant amount of debt and preferred stock outstanding, which limits cash flow available for operations and may impair our ability to obtain additional financing.. As of December 31, 2017, our total debt was approximately $97 million and we had 17,012,075 shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding. Our substantial amount of indebtedness and preferred stock outstanding:. • requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to the payment of debt service and dividends, resulting in less cash available for operations and other purposes; and. • limits our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, regulatory capital requirements, acquisitions or general corporate purposes.. Our substantial indebtedness also increases our vulnerability to downturns in our business or in general economic conditions. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performance. Also, there can be no assurance that we will satisfy the requirements for forgiveness of our forgivable loans from our principal clearing firm. Our future operating performance is subject to many factors, including economic, financial and competitive factors, which may be beyond our control.. As a result, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow, and future sales of equity or debt securities in public or private transactions may not be available to provide sufficient net proceeds to meet these obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and results of operations.. We depend on our ability to attract and retain financial advisors and professional employees.. From time to time, financial advisors and individuals we employ choose to leave our company to pursue other opportunities. We have experienced losses of financial advisors and trading and investment banking professionals in the past, and competition for key personnel remains intense. We cannot assure you that the loss of financial advisors and key personnel will not occur in the future. We expend significant resources in recruiting, training and retaining our financial advisors. The loss of a key financial advisor, trading or investment banking professional, or broker-dealer executive, particularly a senior banking professional or executive with significant industry contacts, or the failure to recruit productive financial advisors could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Also, difficultly in recruiting young advisors, due to the low number of persons entering our industry, combined with the high average age of our existing financial advisors, may adversely impact our ability to retain client assets and our financial results.. 15. Further, if we fail to replace our advisors who retire or fail to assist our retiring advisors with transitioning their practices to existing advisors, or if advisor migration away from wire houses and to independent channels decreases or slows, our business may suffer.. Misconduct by our employees and independent financial advisors, who operate in a decentralized environment, is difficult to detect and deter and could harm our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition.. Misconduct by our employees and independent financial advisors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm.. Misconduct could include:. • recommending transactions that are not suitable for the client or in the client's best interests;. • engaging in fraudulent or otherwise improper activity;. • binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits;. • hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities, resulting in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses;. • improperly using or disclosing confidential information;. • failure, whether negligent or intentional, to effect securities transactions on behalf of clients;. • failure to perform reasonable diligence on a security, product or strategy;. • failure to supervise a financial advisor;. • failure to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information;. • engaging in unauthorized or excessive trading to the detriment of clients;. • engaging in improper transactions with clients; or. • otherwise not complying with laws or our control procedures.. We cannot always deter misconduct by our employees and independent financial advisors, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Also, our failure to properly investigate new and existing financial advisors may subject us to additional risks and liabilities.. Prevention and detection among our independent financial advisors, who are not employees of our company and tend to be located in small, decentralized offices, present additional challenges. Misconduct by our employees and independent financial advisors may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified risks or an unanticipated level of risk.. The policies and procedures we employ to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Some methods of risk management are based on historical behavior. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than indicated historically. Other risk management methods depend on our management's evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible. This information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to properly record and verify a large number of transactions and events. We cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will effectively and accurately record and verify this information. Also, we face additional risk management challenges because many of our independent financial advisors work in small, decentralized offices.. 16. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational and legal reporting systems. Nonetheless, the effectiveness of our ability to manage risk exposure can never be completely or accurately predicted or fully assured. For example, unexpectedly large or rapid movements or disruptions in one or more markets or other unforeseen developments can have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, regardless of our risk management policies and procedures.. Poor performance of the investment products and services recommended or sold to our clients or competitive pressures on pricing of such products and services may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our advisors' clients control their assets maintained with us. These clients can terminate their relationships, reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, financial market performance, competitive pricing and personal client liquidity needs. Poor performance of the investment products and services recommended or sold to such clients relative to the performance of other products available in the market or the performance of other investment management firms tends to result in the loss of accounts. Competitive pricing, including from robo-advisors and higher deposit rates on cash deposits, could adversely impact our business. The decrease in revenue that could result from such an event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We depend on our senior employees and the loss of their services could harm our business.. Our success is dependent in large part upon the services of our senior executives and employees, including the management of our independent advisory and brokerage subsidiaries. We generally do not maintain, and do not intend to obtain, key man insurance on the life of any executive or employee. If our senior executives or employees terminate their employment with us and we are unable to find suitable replacements in relatively short periods of time, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Systems failures could significantly disrupt our business and subject us to losses, litigation and regulatory actions.. Our business depends on our and our clearing firms' ability to process, on a daily basis, many transactions across numerous and diverse markets and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. We rely heavily on our communications and financial, accounting and other data processing systems, including systems we maintain and systems provided by our clearing brokers and service providers. We face operational risk arising from mistakes made in the confirmation or settlement of transactions or from transactions not being properly recorded, evaluated or accounted.. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention and fines or reputational damage. Any failure or interruption of our systems, the systems of our clearing brokers, or third party trading systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Also, our clearing brokers provide our principal disaster recovery system. We also are implementing new technology platforms and failures in connection with such implementation may cause disruption to our operations, which could result in liability and reputational damage. We cannot assure you that we or our clearing brokers will not suffer any systems failures or interruption, including ones caused by earthquake, fire, other natural disasters, power or telecommunications failure, act of God, act of war, cyberattacks, unauthorized access, viruses, human error, terrorism, or otherwise, or that our or our clearing brokers' back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of any such failure or interruption will be adequate.. Our operational systems and networks have been, and will continue to be, subject to evolving cybersecurity or other technological risks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential client information, loss of our proprietary information, damage to our reputation, additional costs to us, regulatory penalties and other adverse impacts.. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. A portion of our business is conducted through the Internet, mobile devices and our internal computer systems. We rely on technology to provide the security necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet. Maintaining the integrity of these systems and networks is critical to the success of our business operations, including the retention of our advisors and their clients, and to the protection of our proprietary information and client information.. 17. We rely on our advisors and employees to comply with our policies and procedures to safeguard confidential data. The failure of our advisors and employees to comply with such policies and procedures could result in the loss or wrongful use of their clients' confidential information or other sensitive information. The increased use of mobile and cloud technologies can heighten these and other operational risks. Also, even if we and our advisors comply with our policies and procedures, persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our confidential information or the confidential information of our advisors' clients, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations and we may not be able to detect such breaches for an extended period of time. During such time, we may not know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it and certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, all or any of which would further increase the costs and consequences of a cyberattack.. To date, we have not experienced any material breaches of, or interference with, our systems and networks; however, we routinely encounter and address such threats. Our experiences with cybersecurity and technology threats have included phishing scams, introductions of malware, attempts at electronic break-ins and unauthorized payment requests. Any such breaches or interference by third parties or by our advisors or employees that may occur in the future and the failure of our controls and procedures to detect or prevent such breaches or interference could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, human error, computer viruses, denial-of-service attacks, or other malicious code and other events that could impact the security, reliability, and availability of our systems. If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our own, our advisors' or their clients' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed, stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our own, our advisors' or their clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions and financial losses that are either not insured or are not fully covered through any insurance we maintain.. Despite the measures we have taken and may in the future take to address and mitigate cybersecurity and technology risks, we cannot assure that our systems and networks will not be subject to breaches or interference. Any such event may result in operational disruptions, unauthorized access to, or the disclosure or loss of, our own, our advisors' or their clients' or counterparties' confidential or other information. This in turn may result in legal claims, regulatory scrutiny and liability, reputational damage, incurrence of costs to eliminate or mitigate further exposure, loss of advisors or client assets or other damage to our business. While we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third-party liability and first-party liability coverages, this insurance may not be sufficient to protect us against all losses. Also, the trend toward broad consumer and general public notification of such incidents could exacerbate the harm to our business, financial condition or results of operations. Even if we successfully protect our technology infrastructure and the confidentiality of sensitive data, we may incur significant expenses in connection with our responses to any such attacks and the adoption and maintenance of appropriate security measures. We also may be subject to litigation and regulatory sanctions.. We could also suffer harm to our business and reputation if attempted security breaches are publicized. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology or other security measures protecting the networks and systems used in connection with our business.. We rely on clearing brokers and the termination of our clearing agreements could disrupt our business.. Each of Triad, Investacorp, KMS, and Ladenburg uses one principal clearing broker to process securities transactions and maintain customer accounts on a fee basis. Securities America and SSN use two clearing brokers to perform the same functions.  Each clearing broker also provides billing services, extends credit and provides for control and receipt, custody and delivery of securities. Each of our broker-dealer subsidiaries depends on the operational capacity and ability of its clearing broker for the orderly processing of transactions. By engaging the processing services of a clearing firm, each of our broker-dealer subsidiaries is exempt from some capital reserve requirements and other regulatory requirements imposed by federal and state securities laws. If these clearing agreements were terminated for any reason, we would be forced to find alternative clearing arrangements.. 18. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find alternative clearing arrangements on acceptable terms to us or at all. Also, the loss of a clearing firm could hamper the ability of our subsidiaries to recruit and retain their respective independent financial advisors.. Our business depends on commissions and fees generated from the distribution of financial products, and adverse changes in the structure or amount of fees or marketing allowances paid by the sponsors of these products could materially adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and results of operations.. We generate an important portion of our revenues from commissions and fees related to the distribution of financial products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities, by our independent financial advisors, and to a lesser extent, Ladenburg's financial advisors. Changes in the structure or amount of the fees or marketing allowances paid by the sponsors of these products could materially adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and results of operations.. Also, regulatory agencies and other industry participants have suggested that Rule 12b-1 distribution fees in the mutual fund industry should be reconsidered and, potentially, reduced or eliminated. The DOL, which promulgates rules related to retirement plans, has implemented rules that restrict commissions and fees on qualified retirement accounts, including IRAs, which had a negative effect on our financial results. Any further reduction or restructuring of Rule 12b-1 distribution fees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In February 2018, the SEC announced a Share Class Selection Disclosure Initiative, which demonstrates the increased focus on these fees. Certain of our investment advisor subsidiaries have in the past, or may in the future, rebate certain 12b-1 fees to clients and could be subject to additional regulatory actions.. Decreases in client assets or assets under management may decrease our revenues.. The results of operations of our independent advisory and brokerage subsidiaries depend on their level of assets under management and client assets. Assets under management balances are impacted by both the flow of client assets in and out of accounts and changes in market values. Poor investment performance by financial products and financial advisors could result in a loss of managed accounts and could result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors. A reduction in client assets or assets under management may cause our revenues to decline.. Our clearing firms extend credit to our clients and we are liable if the clients do not pay.. Each of our broker-dealer subsidiaries permits its clients to purchase securities on a margin basis or sell securities short, which means that the applicable clearing firm extends the client credit that is secured by cash and securities in the client's account. Market conditions, general economic conditions and issues affecting the particular securities held by a client, among other factors, could cause the value of the collateral held by the clearing firm to fall below the amount borrowed by the client. If margin requirements are not sufficient to cover losses, the clearing broker sells or buys securities at prevailing market prices, and may incur losses to satisfy client obligations. Each of our broker-dealer subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify its clearing brokers for losses they may incur while extending credit to its clients.. Significant interest rate changes or the termination of our cash sweep agreements could affect our profitability and financial condition.. Our revenues are exposed to interest rate risk primarily from changes in fees payable to us from banks participating in cash sweep programs, which are based on prevailing interest rates. Our revenues from our sweep programs are negatively impacted by periods of low interest rates and by clients moving assets out of our cash sweep programs. Revenue from our cash sweep programs also depends on our ability to manage the terms of both our agreements with banks participating in our programs and program fees and interest rates payable to clients.. If our contracts with participants in cash sweep programs are terminated or expire, we may not be able to obtain contracts on similar terms, which would decrease our revenue and profitability. Also, decreases in interest rates or clients moving assets out of our cash sweep programs would decrease our revenue and profitability. We may also be limited in the amount we can reduce interest rates payable to clients in cash sweep programs and still offer a competitive return. A sustained low interest rate environment may negatively impact our ability to negotiate contracts on comparable terms.. 19. A loss of our sponsorship and marketing relationships with financial product manufacturers could harm our relationship with our advisors and affect our financial condition.. We have sponsorship and marketing agreements with certain product manufacturers, including manufacturers of mutual funds, ETFs, and fixed and variable annuity products.  If these manufacturers do not renew or decide to terminate these agreements, our ability to serve our advisors and our profitability may be adversely affected.. We may be unable to underwrite securities due to capital limits.. From time to time, our underwriting activities may require that we temporarily receive an infusion of capital for regulatory purposes. This is predicated on the amount of Ladenburg's commitment for each underwriting. In the past, we entered into temporary subordinated loan arrangements with our shareholders or a clearing firm. Should we no longer be able to receive such funding from these sources, and if there are no other viable sources available, it would have an adverse impact on our ability to underwrite offerings, generate profits, recruit financial consultants and retain existing customers.. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry. Credit risk exposes us to losses caused by third parties' financial or other problems.. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations.. These parties include:. • trading counterparties;. • customers;. • clearing agents;. • other broker-dealers;. • exchanges;. • clearing houses; and. • other financial intermediaries as well as issuers whose securities we hold.. These parties may default on their obligations owed to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. This risk may arise, for example, from:. • holding securities of third parties;. • executing securities trades that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries; and. • extending credit to clients through bridge or margin loans or other arrangements.. Significant failures by third parties to perform their obligations owed to us could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and perhaps our ability to borrow in the credit markets.. Intense competition from existing and new entities may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. The financial services industry is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue and intensify in the future. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors also have greater name recognition and a larger base of financial advisors and clients. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. They may also be able to undertake more extensive marketing activities, offer more attractive terms to clients and financial advisors, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies.. 20. We may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors and competitive pressures faced by us may harm our business and may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. Errors and omissions claims may negatively affect our business and results of operations.. Our subsidiaries are subject to claims and litigation in the ordinary course of business resulting from alleged and actual errors and omissions in effecting securities transactions, rendering investment advice and placing insurance. These activities involve substantial amounts of money. Since errors and omissions claims against our subsidiaries or their financial advisors may allege liability for all or part of the amounts in question, claimants may seek large damage awards. These claims can involve significant defense costs. Errors and omissions could include, for example, failure, whether negligently or intentionally, to effect securities transactions on behalf of clients, to choose suitable investments for any particular client, to supervise a financial advisor or to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information. It is not always possible to prevent or detect errors and omissions, and the precautions our subsidiaries take may not be effective in all cases. Our liability for significant and successful errors and omissions claims may materially and negatively affect our results of operations.. We are subject to various risks associated with the securities industry, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, cash flows and results of operations.. We are subject to uncertainties that are common in the securities industry. These uncertainties include:. • the volatility of domestic and international financial, bond and stock markets;. • extensive governmental regulation;. • litigation;. • intense competition;. • poor performance of investment products our advisors recommend or sell;. • substantial fluctuations in the volume and price level of securities; and. • dependence on the solvency of various third parties.. As a result, revenues and earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. In periods of low retail and institutional brokerage volume and reduced investment banking activity, profitability is impaired because certain expenses remain relatively fixed. We are smaller and have less capital than many of our competitors in the securities industry. In the event of a market downturn, our business could be adversely affected in many ways. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances and, if we are unable to reduce expenses at the same pace, our profit margins would erode.. Legal liability may harm our business.. Many aspects of our business subject us to substantial risks of liability to customers and to regulatory enforcement proceedings by state and federal regulators. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. In the normal course of business, our operating subsidiaries have been, and continue to be, the subject of numerous civil actions, regulatory proceedings and arbitrations arising out of customer complaints relating to our activities as a broker-dealer, as an employer or as a result of other business activities.. Dissatisfied clients often make claims against securities firms and their brokers and investment advisers for, among others, negligence, fraud, unauthorized trading, suitability, churning, failure to conduct adequate due diligence on products offered, failure to address issues arising from product due diligence, failure to supervise, breach of fiduciary duty, employee errors, intentional misconduct, unauthorized transactions, improper recruiting activity, and failures in the processing of securities transactions. These types of claims expose us to the risk of significant loss. Also, an underwriter, such as Ladenburg, is exposed to substantial liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws, and court decisions, including decisions about underwriters' liability and limitations on indemnification of underwriters by issuers.. 21. For example, a firm that acts as an underwriter may be held liable for material misstatements or omissions of fact in a prospectus used in connection with the securities being offered or for statements made by its securities analysts or other personnel. Therefore, Ladenburg's activities may subject it to the risk of significant legal liabilities to its clients and aggrieved third parties, including stockholders of its clients who could bring securities class actions against Ladenburg. As a result, Ladenburg may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Ladenburg's underwriting activities often involve offerings of the securities of smaller companies, which may involve a higher degree of risk and are more volatile than the securities of more established companies. In comparison with more established companies, smaller companies are also more likely to be the subject of securities class actions, to carry directors and officers liability insurance policies with lower limits or not at all, and to become insolvent. Each of these factors increases the likelihood that an underwriter of a smaller company's securities will be required to contribute to an adverse judgment or settlement of a securities lawsuit.. While we do not expect the outcome of any pending claims against us to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, we cannot assure you that these types of proceedings, which may generate losses that significantly exceed our reserves, will not materially and adversely affect us. Also, legal or regulatory actions could cause significant reputational harm, which could in turn seriously harm our business prospects.. Risk Factors Relating to the Regulatory Environment. We are subject to extensive regulation and the failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to penalties or sanctions.. The securities industry and our business is subject to extensive regulation by the SEC, state securities regulators and other governmental regulatory authorities. We are also regulated by industry self-regulatory organizations, including FINRA and the MSRB. The regulatory environment is also subject to change and we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other federal or state governmental regulatory authorities, or self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations.. Each of Securities America, Triad, SSN, Investacorp, KMS and Ladenburg is a registered broker-dealer with the SEC and FINRA. Highland and LTAIS are subject to regulation by various regulatory bodies, including state attorneys general and insurance departments. Premier Trust is subject to regulation by the Nevada Department of Business and Industry Financial Institutions Division. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations which cover all aspects of the securities business, including:. • sales methods and supervision;. • trading practices among broker-dealers;. • use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities;. • capital structure of securities firms;. • record keeping;. • conduct of directors, officers and employees; and. • advertising, including regulations related to telephone solicitation.. Compliance with many of these regulations involves a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be subject to varying interpretation. The requirements imposed by these regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations, principally FINRA. FINRA adopts rules, subject to SEC approval, that govern broker-dealers and conducts periodic examinations of firms' operations.. If we are found to have violated any applicable regulation, formal administrative or judicial proceedings may be initiated against us that may result in:. 22. • censure;. • fines;. • civil penalties, including treble damages in the case of insider trading violations;. • the issuance of cease-and-desist orders;. • the termination or suspension of our broker-dealer activities;. • the suspension or disqualification of our officers, employees or financial advisors; or. • other adverse consequences.. Certain of our subsidiaries have been subject to some of the penalties listed above. For instance, in July 2016, one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries entered into an agreement with FINRA under which it agreed to a censure and other relief.  The imposition of any of the penalties listed above could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Extensive or frequent changes in regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The securities industry is subject to extensive and frequently changing requirements under federal and state securities and other applicable laws and self-regulatory organization rules. The SEC, FINRA, various securities exchanges and other U.S. governmental or regulatory authorities continuously review legislation and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations may be complex, and we may not have the benefit of regulatory or federal interpretations to guide us in compliance. Changes in laws and regulation or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations also could have an adverse effect on our methods and costs of doing business.. For example, certain state securities regulators require that investors in certain securities meet minimum income and/or net worth standards. These standards vary from state to state and change frequently. Changes to suitability standards may require us to expend resources to ensure that we and our financial advisors comply with the new standards. If a financial advisor does not satisfy the requirements with regard to suitability standards, we could be subject to substantial liability, including fines, penalties and possibly rescission. Along with suitability requirements, state regulators have also imposed limitations on an investor's exposure to direct investment programs. The breadth and scope of these limitations have varied considerably and may operate to limit the exposure that a resident of a particular state has to a product, sponsor or direct investment programs generally. These concentration limitations have been applied with increasing frequency and have increasingly targeted all direct investment programs.. FINRA has identified rollovers of client assets from group retirement plans to IRAs as an area of increased scrutiny. FINRA has announced that its periodic regulatory examinations of broker-dealers will focus on this area, including compliance with regulations regarding suitability, conflicts of interest, disclosures to clients and supervision. This enhanced regulatory focus may discourage rollovers of assets into IRAs, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Qualified accounts, specifically IRAs, make up a significant portion of our client assets.. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the manner in which we operate our business and interact with regulators and many regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act have not yet been proposed or implemented. In particular, the impact of the establishment of a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers by the SEC is uncertain and may require us to expend resources to ensure that we and our financial advisors comply with the new standards.. As discussed in Item 1,\"Business - Government Regulation,\" the DOL Rule significantly expands the scope of who is considered an ERISA fiduciary and what activity constitutes acting as an ERISA fiduciary, while prohibiting certain additional types of transactions conducted by persons who are considered fiduciaries. The DOL Rule focuses on conflicts of interest related to investment recommendations made by financial advisors or registered investment advisors to clients holding qualified accounts and other types of ERISA clients as well as how financial advisors are able to discuss IRA rollovers.. Portions of the DOL Rule, which currently are scheduled to take effect in July 2019,  would eliminate and amend certain exemptions and implement certain new exemptions. These portions of the DOL Rule could be further delayed or revised.. 23. If not delayed or revised, we expect that the DOL Rule would impact how we receive fees, how we compensate our advisors, how we are able to retain advisors, and how we design our investments and services for qualified accounts. Because qualified retirement accounts and IRAs make up a significant portion of our business, we expect that implementation of the remaining portions of the DOL Rule would negatively impact our results, including the impact of increased expenditures related to legal, compliance, information technology and other costs.. Legislative, judicial or regulatory changes to the classification of independent contractors could increase our operating expenses.. From time to time, various legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced at the federal or state levels to change the status of independent contractors' classification to employees for either employment tax purposes (withholding, social security, Medicare and unemployment taxes) or other benefits available to employees. Currently, most individuals are classified as employees or independent contractors for employment tax purposes based on 20 \"common law\" factors, rather than any definition found in the Internal Revenue Code or Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") regulations. Each of Securities America, Triad, SSN, Investacorp and KMS classifies its financial advisors as independent contractors for all purposes, including employment tax and employee benefit purposes. We cannot assure you that legislative, judicial, or regulatory (including tax) authorities will not introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations that would change the employee/independent contractor classification of these firms' financial advisors. The costs associated with potential changes, if any, to these independent contractor classifications could have a material adverse effect on us, including our results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to comply with capital requirements could subject us to suspension, revocation or fines by the SEC, FINRA or other regulators.. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the SEC's Net Capital Rule, which requires the maintenance of minimum net capital. Also, under Nevada law, Premier Trust must maintain minimum stockholders' equity of at least $1,000,000, including at least $250,000 in cash. At December 31, 2017, each of our broker-dealer subsidiaries exceeded its minimum net capital requirement and Premier Trust exceeded its minimum stockholder's equity requirement. The Net Capital Rule is designed to measure the general financial integrity and liquidity of a broker-dealer. In computing net capital, various adjustments are made to net worth which exclude assets not readily convertible into cash. The regulations also require that certain assets, such as a broker-dealer's position in securities, be valued in a conservative manner to avoid inflation of the broker-dealer's net capital. The Net Capital Rule requires a broker-dealer to maintain a minimum level of net capital. The particular levels vary depending upon the nature of the activity undertaken by a firm. Compliance with the Net Capital Rule limits those operations of broker-dealers which require the intensive use of their capital, such as underwriting commitments and principal trading activities. The rule also limits the ability of securities firms to pay dividends or make payments on certain indebtedness such as subordinated debt as it matures. A significant operating loss or any charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of a broker-dealer to expand or, depending on the magnitude of the loss or charge, maintain its then present level of business. FINRA may enter the offices of a broker-dealer at any time, without notice, and calculate the firm's net capital. If the calculation reveals a net capital deficiency, FINRA may immediately restrict or suspend some or all of the broker-dealer's activities, including its ability to make markets. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries may not be able to maintain adequate net capital, or their net capital may fall below requirements established by the SEC and subject us to disciplinary action in the form of fines, censure, suspension, expulsion or the termination of business altogether. During the fourth quarter of 2009 and the first quarter of 2016, Triad had a short-term net-capital deficiency. See Note 5, \"Net Capital Requirements,\" to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K.. Risk Factors Relating to Strategic Acquisitions and the Integration of Acquired Operations. We may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing business and operations, which may adversely affect our cash flows, liquidity and results of operations.. We have completed numerous acquisitions since 2006. We continue to explore opportunities to grow our businesses, including through potential acquisitions of other financial services firms, both domestically and internationally. These acquisitions may involve payments of material amounts of cash, incurrence of a material amount of debt or the issuance of significant amounts of our equity securities, which may increase our leverage and/or be dilutive to our existing shareholders. We may experience difficulty integrating the operations of these entities or any other entities acquired in the future into our existing business and operations.. 24. Furthermore, we may not be able to retain all of the employees or financial advisors we acquire as a result of these transactions. If we are unable to effectively address these risks, we may be required to restructure the acquired businesses or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing business and operations in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected if the firms we acquire do not perform as expected.. Even if we successfully complete acquisitions, we may be adversely affected if the acquired firms do not perform as expected. The firms we acquire may perform below expectations after the acquisition for various reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes that affect the products in which a firm specializes, the loss of key clients, employees and/or financial advisors after the acquisition closing, general economic factors and the cultural incompatibility of an acquired firm's management team with us. The failure of firms to perform as expected at the time of acquisition may have an adverse effect on our earnings and revenue growth rates, and may result in impairment charges and/or generate losses or charges to earnings.. We face numerous risks and uncertainties as we expand our business.. We expect the growth of our business to come primarily from organic growth, recruiting and through acquisitions. As we expand our business, there can be no assurance that our financial controls, the level and knowledge of our personnel, our operational abilities, our legal and compliance controls and our other corporate support systems will be adequate to manage our business and our growth. The ineffectiveness of any of these controls or systems could adversely affect our business and prospects. In addition, as we acquire new businesses, we face numerous risks and uncertainties integrating their controls and systems into ours, including financial controls, accounting and data processing systems, management controls and other operations. A failure to integrate these systems and controls, and even an inefficient integration of these systems and controls, could adversely affect our business, cash flows and results of operations.. Risk Factors Relating to Owning Our Securities. The price of our common stock, Series A Preferred Stock and 6.5% senior notes due 2027 (\"senior notes\") may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell the shares of our stock or notes at prices you find attractive.. The trading price of our common stock, as reported by the NYSE American, has ranged from a low of $2.05 to a high of $3.48 per share for the 52 week period ended December 31, 2017. The trading price of our Series A Preferred Stock, as reported by the NYSE American, has ranged from a low of $23.98 to a high of $25.69 per share for the 52 week period ended December 31, 2017. The trading price of our 6.5% senior notes, as reported by the NYSE American, has ranged from a low of $24.06 to a high of $25.00 for the six-week period ended December 31, 2017. We expect that the market price of our securities will continue to fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our stock and senior notes may fluctuate in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include:. • variations in quarterly operating results;. • general economic and business conditions, including conditions in the securities brokerage and investment banking markets;. • prevailing interest rates, increases in which may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock and senior notes;. • trading prices of similar securities;. • the annual yield from dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and interest on the senior notes as compared to yields on other comparable financial instruments;. • our announcements of significant contracts, milestones or acquisitions;. 25. • our relationships with other companies;. • our ability to obtain needed capital;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • the initiation or outcome of litigation or arbitration proceedings;. • sales of common stock, conversion of securities convertible into common stock, exercise of options and warrants to purchase common stock or termination of stock transfer restrictions;. • our level of indebtedness;. • legislation or regulatory policies, practices or actions;. • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and. • fluctuations in stock market prices and volume.. Any one of these factors could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, Series A Preferred Stock or senior notes. Also, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have materially affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies and that often have been unrelated to such companies' operating performance. These market fluctuations have adversely impacted the price of our common stock in the past and may do so in the future. Also, shareholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management's time and attention. These factors, among others, could significantly depress the price of our common stock.. Our principal shareholders including our directors and officers control a large percentage of our shares of common stock and can significantly influence our corporate actions.. At March 9, 2018, our named executive officers, directors and their affiliates, beneficially owned approximately 46.76% of our common stock. Accordingly, these individuals and entities can significantly influence most, if not all, of our corporate actions, including the election of directors and the appointment of officers. Also, this ownership of our common stock may make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, therefore possibly discouraging third parties from seeking to acquire us. A third party would have to negotiate any possible transactions with these principal shareholders, and their interests may be different from the interests of our other shareholders. This may depress the price of our common stock.. We are a holding company and rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations.. We have no direct operations and derive all of our cash flow from our subsidiaries. Because we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments or distributions to meet any existing or future debt service and other obligations, including payment of dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock and interest on our senior notes.. The deterioration of the earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us. Also, FINRA regulations restrict dividends in excess of 10% of a member firm's excess net capital without FINRA's prior approval. Compliance with this regulation may impede our ability to receive dividends from our broker-dealer subsidiaries.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate substantially due to the nature of our business and therefore we may fail to meet profitability expectations.. 26. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to a combination of factors, including: fluctuations in capital markets, which may affect trading activity in commission-based accounts and asset values in fee-based accounts, the level of underwriting and advisory transactions completed by Ladenburg and attrition of financial advisors. Accordingly, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to an increased or decreased number of transactions in any particular quarter or year.. Reports published by securities or industry analysts, including projections in those reports that exceed our actual results, could adversely affect our stock price and trading volume.. Research analysts publish their own quarterly projections regarding our operating results. These projections may vary widely from one another and may not accurately predict the results we actually achieve. Our stock price may decline if we fail to meet securities research analysts' projections. Similarly, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, our stock price or trading volume could decline.. Possible additional share issuances may cause significant dilution.. At December 31, 2017, we had outstanding 198,563,941 shares of common stock, options and warrants to purchase a total of 32,501,005 shares of common stock and 17,012,075 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock. We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock and are able to issue a significant number of additional shares without obtaining shareholder approval.. If we issue additional shares, or if our existing shareholders exercise their outstanding options and warrants, our other shareholders may be significantly diluted, which means that they would own a smaller percentage of our company.. We may issue preferred stock with preferential rights that may adversely affect your rights.. The rights of our shareholders will be subject to and may be adversely affected by the rights of holders of any preferred stock that we may issue in the future. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of \"blank check\" preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privilege and restrictions, including voting rights, of these shares without further shareholder approval.. We may not continue to pay cash dividends on our common stock.. Although we have declared dividends on our common stock in the past, any future declarations of quarterly dividends are subject to the determination and discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, if no such future dividends are declared, you must rely on sales of your common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any positive return on your investment in our common stock. Net capital requirements imposed on our broker-dealer subsidiaries by the SEC, our obligation to pay dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock, servicing of our indebtedness and any covenants contained in our outstanding debt agreements may restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock.. Market interest rates may materially and adversely affect the value of the Series A Preferred Stock and our senior notes.. One of the factors that influences the price of the Series A Preferred Stock  and the senior notes is the yield on these securities as a percentage of the market price relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, may lead prospective purchasers of the Series A Preferred Stock and our senior notes to expect a higher yield (and higher market interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs). Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock and the senior notes to materially decrease.. We may not be able to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock.. 27. Under Florida law, we may not make any distribution to our shareholders, including holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, if, after giving effect to the distribution, we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business, or our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed, if we were to be dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareholders whose preferred rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. Our ability to pay cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock will require us to have positive net assets (total assets less total liabilities) over our capital and to be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business. Further, notwithstanding these factors, we may not have sufficient cash to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. Our ability to pay dividends may be impaired if any of the risks described in this report were to occur. Also, payment of our dividends depends upon our financial condition and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that our businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make distributions on our common stock, if any, and preferred stock, including the Series A Preferred Stock, to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.. If our common stock is delisted, the ability to transfer or sell our securities may be limited and the market value of our securities will likely be materially adversely affected.. Other than in connection with a Change of Control (as defined in the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock), our Series A Preferred Stock does not contain provisions that are intended to protect a holder if our common stock is delisted from the NYSE American. Since the Series A Preferred Stock has no stated maturity date, holders may be forced to hold shares of our Series A Preferred Stock and receive stated dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock when, as and if authorized by our board of directors and paid by us with no assurance as to ever receiving the liquidation value thereof. Also, if our common stock is delisted from the NYSE American, it is possible that our Series A Preferred Stock  and senior notes may be delisted from the NYSE American as well. Accordingly, if our common stock is delisted from the NYSE American, the ability to transfer or sell shares of our common stock, Series A Preferred Stock and senior notes may be limited and the market value of our common stock, Series A Preferred Stock and senior notes will likely be materially adversely affected.. The change of control conversion rights of our Series A Preferred Stock may make it more difficult for a party to acquire us or discourage a party from acquiring us.. Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, each holder of the Series A Preferred Stock has the right (subject to our election to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock in whole or in part prior to the date the Series A Preferred Stock is to be converted) to convert some or all of such holder's Series A Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock (or under specified circumstances, certain alternative consideration).. The Change of Control conversion feature of the Series A Preferred Stock may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing certain of our change of control transactions under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price of such stock or that shareholders may otherwise believe is in their best interests.. Changes in our credit rating, or the credit rating of our senior notes, could adversely affect the market price or liquidity of our senior notes.. Credit rating agencies continually revise their ratings for the companies that they follow, including us. Such ratings are based on a number of factors, including financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry generally.  Our 6.5% senior notes due 2027 will be rated only by one rating agency, Egan-Jones Ratings Co. A downgrade, suspension or withdrawal in our rating or the rating of our senior notes, or the anticipation of such a change, including any announcement that our rating is under further review for a downgrade, could have an adverse effect on the price of the senior notes. More generally, a negative change or anticipated negative change in our rating could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. We cannot be sure our credit rating agency will maintain its initial rating on our senior notes.. Our credit rating may not reflect all risks of an investment in our senior notes.. 28. Our credit rating is an assessment by a rating agency of our ability to pay our debts when due. The credit rating may not reflect the potential impact of risks related to structure, market or other factors related to the value of our senior notes. A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the issuing organization in its sole discretion."
