[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks before investing in our common stock. These are not the only risks that we may face. If any of the events referred to below actually occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information in this Form 10-K and in the documents we incorporate by reference into this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry and Other Matters. We are subject to risk as a result of our international manufacturing operations.. Because most of our products are manufactured at our facilities located in China and Mexico, our operations are subject to risk inherent in doing business internationally. Such risks include the adverse effects on operations from corruption, war, international terrorism, civil disturbances, political instability, government activities such as border taxes and renegotiation of treaties, deprivation of contract and property rights and currency valuation changes.. 11. Since 1978, the Chinese government has been reforming its economic and political systems, and we expect this to continue. Although we believe that these reforms have had a positive effect on the economic development of China and have improved our ability to successfully operate our facilities in China, we cannot assure you that these reforms will continue or that the Chinese government will not take actions that impair our operations or assets in China. In addition, periods of international unrest may impede our ability to manufacture goods in other countries and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our results of operations could be negatively affected by potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.. Most of our assembly arrangements with our foreign-based subsidiaries or third-party suppliers require payment to be made in US dollars or the Chinese RenminBi (“RMB”). Any decrease in the value of the US dollar or RMB in relation to foreign currencies could increase the cost of the services provided to us upon contract expirations or supply renegotiations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase product prices to offset any such cost increases, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks as a result of our sales to customers in foreign countries in the amount of $45.5 million in FY18. Our sales in these countries are usually denominated in the local currency. If the value of the US dollar increases relative to these local currencies, and we are unable to raise our prices proportionally, then our profit margins could decrease because of the exchange rate change.. We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our purchases and sales in other countries. To manage the volatility relating to foreign currency exchange rates, we seek to limit, to the extent possible, our non-US dollar denominated purchases and sales.. In connection with our operations in China, we purchase a significant amount of products from outside of the United States. However, our purchases in China are primarily made in the RMB, the value of which has floated for the last 2 years, therefore we have been exposed to additional foreign exchange rate risk on our Chinese raw material and component purchases.. Our primary risk from foreign currency exchange rate changes is presently related to non-US dollar denominated sales in China, Canada and Europe and, to a smaller extent, in South American countries and in Russia. Our sales to customers in Canada are denominated in Canadian dollars, in Europe in Euros and British pounds, and in China in RMB and US dollars. If the value of the US dollar increases relative to the Canadian dollar, the Pound, the Euro, or the RMB then our net sales could decrease as our products would be more expensive to these international customers because of changes in rate of exchange. We manage the foreign currency risk when appropriate through the use of rolling 90-day forward contracts against the Canadian dollar and Euro and through cash flow hedges in the US against the RMB and the Euro. We do not hedge other currencies at this time. In the event that non-US dollar denominated international purchases and sales grow, exposure to volatility in exchange rates could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. Our results of operations may vary widely from quarter to quarter.. Our quarterly results of operations have varied and are expected to continue to vary in the future. These fluctuations may be caused by many factors, including:. ·Currency volatility;. ·Global crisis, such as the Ebola outbreak or oil spills;. ·Our expansion of international operations;. ·Competitive pricing pressures;. ·Seasonal buying patterns resulting from the cyclical nature of the business of some of our customers;. ·Changes in the mix of products and services sold;. ·The timing of introductions and enhancements of products by us or our competitors;. ·Market acceptance of new products;. ·Technological changes in fabrics or production equipment used to make our products;. ·Changes in the mix of domestic and international sales;. ·Personnel changes; and. ·General industry and economic conditions.. These variations could negatively impact our stock price.. 12. Some of our sales are to foreign buyers, which exposes us to additional risks.. We derived approximately 47% of our net sales from customers located in foreign countries in FY18. We intend to seek to increase the amount of foreign sales we make in the future. The additional risks of foreign sales include:. ·Potential adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. ·Higher credit risks;. ·Restrictive trade policies of the US foreign governments;. ·Currency hyperinflation and weak banking institutions;. ·Changing economic conditions in local markets;. ·Political and economic instability in foreign markets; and. ·Changes in leadership of foreign governments.. Some or all of these risks may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We deal in countries where corruption is an obstacle.. We must comply with American laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and Sarbanes-Oxley and also with anticorruption legislation in the U.K. Some of our competitors and customers in foreign jurisdictions may not adhere to such legislation. As a result, we believe that we lose sales orders due to our strict adherence to such regulations.. We are exposed to tax expense risks.. We are exposed to tax rate risk with respect to our deferred tax asset. On December 22, 2017, new federal tax reform legislation was enacted in the United States, resulting in significant changes from previous tax law. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) reduces the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% effective January 1, 2018. The Tax Act requires us to recognize the effect of the tax law changes in the period of enactment, such as determining the transition tax, re-measuring our US deferred tax assets as well as reassessing the net realizability of our deferred tax assets. The Company completed this re-measurement and reassessment in the recently completed fiscal year. The rate change, along with certain immaterial changes in tax basis resulting from the 2017 Tax Act, resulted in a reduction of our net deferred tax asset to $7.6 million with a corresponding deferred income tax expense of $5.1 million in FY18. While the Tax Act provides for a modified territorial tax system, beginning in FY19, it includes two new U.S. tax base erosion provisions, the global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) provisions and the base-erosion and anti-abuse tax (“BEAT”) provisions. The GILTI provisions require the Company to include in its U.S. income tax return foreign subsidiary earnings in excess of an allowable return on the foreign subsidiary’s tangible assets. The Company does not expect that the GILTI income inclusion will result in significant U.S. tax beginning in FY19. The BEAT provisions in the Tax Act eliminates the deduction of certain base-erosion payments made to related foreign corporations and impose a minimum tax if greater than regular tax. The Company does not expect that the BEAT provision will result in significant U.S. tax beginning in FY19. In addition, the Company intends to account for the GILTI tax in the period in which it is incurred, and therefore has not provided any deferred tax impacts of GILTI in its consolidated financial statements for the year ended  January 31, 2018. Though this one-time, non-cash adjustment had a materially negative impact on FY18 earnings, the Tax Act also changes the taxation of foreign earnings, and companies generally will not be subject to United States federal income taxes upon the receipt of dividends from foreign subsidiaries and though they will not be permitted foreign tax credits, the Company should still be in a favorable tax position going forward.. The Company claimed a worthless stock deduction in connection with our exit from Brazil which generated a tax benefit of approximately US $9.5 million in its fiscal year ended January 31, 2016. While, along with our tax advisors, we believe that this deduction is valid, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge it and, if challenged, there is no assurance that the Company will prevail.. 13. Covenants in our credit facilities may restrict our financial and operating flexibility.. As a result of the Loan Agreement the Company entered into on May 10, 2017 we currently have a $20 million revolving credit facility, expiring May 10, 2020. Our credit facility requires, and any future credit facilities may also require, among others that we comply with specified financial covenants relating to fixed charge coverage and maximum capital expenditures. Our ability to satisfy these financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot guarantee that we will meet the requirements of these covenants. These restrictive covenants could affect our financial and operational flexibility or impede our ability to operate or expand our business, including a limitation on annual investments and advances we can make to foreign subsidiaries. Default under our credit facilities would allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. Our lenders have a security interest in substantially all of our assets to secure the debt under our current credit facilities, and it is likely that our future lenders will have security interests in our assets. If our lenders declare amounts outstanding under any credit facility to be due, the lenders could proceed against our assets. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Because we do not have long-term commitments from many of our customers, we must estimate customer demand, and errors in our estimates could negatively impact our inventory levels and net sales.. Our sales are generally made on the basis of individual purchase orders, which may later be modified or canceled by the customer, rather than on long-term commitments. We have historically been required to place firm orders for fabrics and components with our suppliers prior to receiving an order for our products, based on our forecasts of customer demands. Our sales process requires us to make multiple demand forecast assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates, causing excess inventory to accrue or a lack of manufacturing capacity when needed. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to or not at all. As a result, we would have excess inventory, which would negatively impact our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would lose sales opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. On occasion, we have been unable to adequately respond to delivery dates required by our customers because of the lead time needed for us to obtain required materials or to send fabrics to our assembly facilities in China and Mexico. We must recruit and retain skilled employees, including our senior management, to succeed in our business.. We face competition from other companies, a number of which have substantially greater resources than we do.. Three of our competitors, DuPont, Honeywell and Kimberly Clark, have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources than we do. In addition, we believe that the barriers to entry in the disposable and reusable garments and gloves markets are relatively low. We cannot assure you that our present competitors or competitors that choose to enter the marketplace in the future will not exert significant competitive pressures. Such competition could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations.. Our operations are substantially dependent upon key personnel.. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and certain other key personnel, including Christopher J. Ryan, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Secretary, Teri W. Hunt, our Chief Financial Officer, Charles D. Roberson, our Sr. VP International Sales and Daniel L. Edwards, our Sr. VP Sales for North America. The loss of services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any future expansion of our business will depend on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled managerial, marketing, customer service and manufacturing personnel, and our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Technological change could negatively affect sales of our products and our performance.. The rapid development of fabric technology continually affects our apparel applications and may directly impact the performance of our products. We cannot assure you that we will successfully maintain or improve the effectiveness of our existing products, nor can we assure you that we will successfully identify new opportunities or continue to have the needed financial resources to develop new fabric or apparel manufacturing techniques in a timely or cost-effective manner. In addition, products manufactured by others may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. If any of these events occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely affected.. 14. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations.. Global cybersecurity threats can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology (“IT”) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats. While we employ comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, management training, continuous monitoring of our IT networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems), cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. While no cybersecurity attack to date has had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operation or liquidity, the threat remains and the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations.. A significant reduction in government funding for preparations for terrorist incidents could adversely affect our net sales.. As a general matter, a significant portion of our sales growth to our distributors is dependent upon resale by those distributors to customers that are funded in large part by federal, state and local government funding. Specifically, depending on the year, approximately 10% of our high-end chemical suit sales are dependent on government funding. Congress passed the 2001 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and the Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002. Both of these Acts provide for funding to fire and police departments and medical and emergency personnel to respond to terrorist incidents. Appropriations for these Acts by the federal government could be reduced or eliminated altogether. Any such reduction or elimination of federal funding, or any reductions in state or local funding, could cause sales of our products purchased by fire and police departments and medical and emergency personnel to decline.. We may be exposed to continuing and other liabilities arising from our former Brazilian operations.. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016 the Company formally completed the terms of the “Shares Transfer Agreement” and executed its exit from Brazil, but we may continue to be exposed to certain liabilities arising in connection with the prior operations of Lakeland Brazil. The Company understands that under the laws of Brazil, a concept of fraudulent conveyance exists, which may hold a parent company liable for the liabilities of a former Brazilian subsidiary in the event some level of fraud or misconduct is shown during the period that the parent company owned the subsidiary. While the Company believes that there has been no such fraud or misconduct relating to operations of and their exit from Brazil, there can be no assurance that the courts of Brazil will not make such a finding. The risk of exposure to the Company continues to diminish as the former subsidiary continues to operate, as the statute of limitations for claiming fraudulent conveyance has now expired, as labor cases pre-dating the expiration of the statute of limitations are concluded, except for the four still open, so as to preclude any such finding, and as pre-shares transfer agreement liabilities are satisfied. As the former subsidiary has stayed in operation for a period of greater than two years, the Company believes the risk of a finding of fraudulent conveyance has virtually been eliminated.. We may be subject to product liability claims, and insurance coverage could be inadequate or unavailable to cover these claims.. We manufacture products used for protection from hazardous or potentially lethal substances, such as chemical and biological toxins, fire, viruses and bacteria. The products that we manufacture are typically used in applications and situations that involve high levels of risk of personal injury. Failure to use our products for their intended purposes, failure to use our products properly or the malfunction of our products could result in serious bodily injury or death of the user. In such cases, we may be subject to product liability claims arising from the design, manufacture or sale of our products. If these claims are decided against us, and we are found to be liable, we may be required to pay substantial damages, and our insurance costs may increase significantly as a result. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the payment of any potential claim. In addition, we cannot assure you that this or any other insurance coverage will continue to be available or, if available, that we will be able to obtain it at a reasonable cost. Any material uninsured loss could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant liabilities.. Our US operations, including our manufacturing facilities, are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes. Any violation of any of those laws and regulations could cause us to incur substantial liability to the Environmental Protection Agency, the state environmental agencies in any affected state or to any individuals affected by any such violation. If hazardous substances are released from or located on any of our properties, we could incur substantial costs and damages. Any such liability could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Our directors and executive officers have the ability to exert significant influence on our Company and on matters subject to a vote of our stockholders.. As of January 31, 2018, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned or could vote approximately 7.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result of their ownership of common stock and their positions in our Company, our directors and executive officers are able to exert significant influence on our Company and on matters submitted to a vote by our stockholders. In particular, as of January 31, 2018, Christopher J. Ryan, our chief executive officer, president and secretary and a director, beneficially owned or votes approximately 5.9% of our common stock. The ownership interests of our directors and executive officers, including Mr. Ryan, could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our Company that may be favored by our stockholders generally.. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult.. Our restated certificate of incorporation contains classified board provisions, authorized preferred stock that could be utilized to implement various “poison pill” defenses and a stockholder authorized, but as yet unused, Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”), all of which may have the effect of discouraging a takeover of Lakeland, which is not approved by our board of directors. Further, we are subject to the antitakeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibit us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the prescribed manner.. Acquisitions could be unsuccessful.. In the future, subject to capital constraints, we may seek to acquire selected safety products lines or safety-related businesses which will complement our existing products. Our ability to acquire these businesses is dependent upon many factors, including our management’s relationship with the owners of these businesses, many of which are small and closely held by individual stockholders. In addition, we will be competing for acquisition and expansion opportunities with other companies, many of which have greater name recognition, marketing support and financial resources than us, which may result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us, as well as higher acquisition prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, pursue or acquire any targeted business and, if acquired, there can be no assurance that we will be able to profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate acquired business into our Company without substantial costs, delays and other operational or financial problems.. If we proceed with additional acquisitions for cash, we may use a substantial portion of our available line of credit (if available) in order to consummate any such acquisition. We may also seek to finance any such acquisition through debt or equity financings, and there can be no assurance that such financings will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If consideration for an acquisition consists of equity securities, the stock held by our investors could be diluted. If we borrow funds in order to finance an acquisition, we may not be able to obtain such funds on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, such indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business as we currently intend because of restrictions placed on us under the terms of the indebtedness and because we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on the debt instead of to our operations, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage.. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks in addition to those mentioned above, including the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies, potential exposure to unknown liabilities, adverse effects on our reported operating results and the amortization or write-down of acquired intangible assets. We cannot assure you that any acquisition by us will or will not occur, that if an acquisition does occur that it will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or that any such acquisition will be successful in enhancing our business. To the extent that we are unable to manage growth efficiently and effectively or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 16. We may need additional funds, and if we are unable to obtain these funds, we may not be able to expand or operate our business as planned.. Our operations require significant amounts of cash, and we may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or by borrowing money, to fund acquisitions for the future growth and development of our business or to fund our operations and inventory, particularly in the event of a market downturn.. A number of factors could affect our ability to access future debt or equity financing, including:. ·Our financial condition, strength and credit rating;. ·The financial markets’ confidence in our management team and financial reporting;. ·General economic conditions and the conditions in the homeland security and Energy sectors; and. ·Capital markets conditions.. Even if available, additional financing may be more costly than our current facility and may have adverse consequences. If additional funds are raised through the incurrence of debt, we will incur increased debt servicing costs and may become subject to additional restrictive financial and other covenants. We can give no assurance as to the terms or availability of additional capital. Although management believes it currently has sufficient capital, if we do need additional capital in the future and are unsuccessful, it could reduce our net sales and materially adversely impact our earning capability and financial position.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls or are unable to remediate a material weakness in our internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, and investors’ views of us could be harmed.. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis involves substantial effort that needs to be reevaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We have documented and tested our internal controls and procedures for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2018. In making this assessment, management used the criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in 2013 (COSO). Based upon an evaluation performed, our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of January 31, 2018 as discussed in Item 9A Controls and Procedures.. The Company now qualifies as an accelerated filer therefore an attestation report of management’s assessment of internal control by our independent auditors is required and included with this report.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors and other events or factors. For example, a shortfall in net sales or net income, or an increase in losses, from levels expected by securities analysts or investors, could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many micro and small capitalization companies have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price for our common stock.. 17. Our common stock is an equity interest and therefore subordinated to our indebtedness.. Payments of the principal and interest under the notes issued under the loan agreements entered into in connection with our senior financing are secured by liens on, and security interests in, substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ present and after-acquired assets. In the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, our common stock would rank below all debt and creditor claims against us. As a result, holders of our common stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up until after all of our obligations to our debt holders and creditors have been satisfied.. We are precluded from paying and do not anticipate paying any dividends to our common stockholders in the near future.. We are prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends to our common stockholders without the prior consent of our senior and junior lenders. Further, we have not paid dividends on our common stock since August 2006 and we do not anticipate, if permitted, paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to retain any earnings to maintain and expand our existing operations."
