[1] "ITEM 1A - Risk Factors.. Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results.. Credit Risks. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses.. Like all commercial banks, Lakeland Bank maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan and lease defaults and non-performance.  If our allowance for loan and lease losses is not adequate to cover actual loan and lease losses, we. -. 11. -. Table of Contents. may be required to significantly increase future provisions for loan and lease losses, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.  Our allowance for loan and lease losses is determined by analyzing historical loan and lease losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, plans for problem loan and lease resolution, the opinions of our regulators, changes in the size and composition of the loan and lease portfolio and industry information.  We also consider the possible effects of economic events, which are difficult to predict.  The amount of future losses is affected by changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, many of which are beyond our control.  These losses may exceed our current estimates.  Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and the allowance for loan and lease losses. While we believe that our allowance for loan and lease losses in relation to our current loan portfolio is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that we will not need to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses or that the regulators will not require us to increase this allowance.  Future increases in our allowance for loan and lease losses could materially and adversely affect our earnings and profitability.. A change in accounting standards could also cause an increase in Lakeland's allowance for loan and lease losses.  In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update pertaining to the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments.  This update requires the measurement of all expected credit losses for financial instruments held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts.  Financial institutions, such as Lakeland, and other organizations will now use forward-looking information to better inform their credit loss estimates.  This update will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2019.  While Lakeland is currently evaluating the impact that this standard could have on its financial statements, the adoption of this update is likely to cause an increase in Lakeland's allowance for loan and lease losses and a reduction in capital.. The concentration of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to increased regulatory analysis, or otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results.. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate (CRE) lending. The 2006 interagency guidance did not establish specific CRE lending limits or caps; rather, the guidance set forth supervisory criteria to serve as levels of bank CRE concentration above which certain financial institutions may be identified for further supervisory analysis.  According to the guidelines, institutions could be subject to further analysis if (i) their loans for construction, land, and land development (CLD) represent 100% or more of the institution's total risk-based capital, or (ii) their total non-owner-occupied CRE loans (including CLD loans), as defined, represent 300% or more of the institution's total risk-based capital, and further, that the institution's non-owner-occupied CRE loan portfolio has increased by 50% or more during the previous 36 months.. The Bank's total reported CLD loans represented 47% of total risk-based capital at December 31, 2017. The Bank's total reported CRE loans to total capital was 404% at December 31, 2017, while the Bank's CRE portfolio has increased by 127% over the preceding 36 months.  The growth rate of the preceding 36 months included the acquisitions of Pascack Community Bank and Harmony Bank.. The Bank's CRE portfolio is segmented and spread among various property types including retail, office, multi-family, mixed use, industrial, hospitality, healthcare, special use and residential and commercial construction. Management regularly reviews and evaluates its CRE portfolio, including concentrations within the various property types based on current market conditions and risk appetite as well as by utilizing stress testing on material exposures and believes its underwriting practices are sound.. There is no assurance that in the future we will not continue to exceed the levels set forth in the guidelines.  Furthermore, the concentration of our commercial real estate portfolio could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results, including our overall profitability, and/or adversely impact the growth of our business, including the growth and composition of our overall loan portfolio.. Our mortgage banking operations expose us to risks that are different than the risks associated with our retail banking operations.. The Bank's mortgage banking operations expose us to risks that are different than our retail banking operations. Our mortgage banking operations are dependent upon the level of demand for residential mortgages.  During higher and rising interest rate environments, the level of refinancing activity tends to decline, which can lead to reduced volumes of business and lower revenues that may not exceed our fixed costs to run the business. In addition, mortgages sold to third-party investors are typically subject to certain repurchase provisions related to borrower refinancing, defaults, fraud or other reasons stipulated in the applicable third-party investor agreements.  If the fair value of a loan when repurchased is less than the fair value when sold, a bank may be required to charge such shortfall to earnings.. -. 12. -. Table of Contents. In addition, the \"ability to repay\" and \"Qualified Mortgage\" rules promulgated as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, may expose the Company to greater losses, reduced volume and litigation related expenses and delays in taking title to collateral real estate, if these loans do not perform and borrowers challenge whether the rules were satisfied when originating the loans.. We are subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Economic, political and market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation affect our business.  These factors are beyond our control.  A deterioration in economic conditions, particularly in the markets we lend in, could have the following consequences, any of which could materially adversely affect our business:. • loan and lease delinquencies may increase;. • problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. • demand for our products and services may decrease; and. • collateral for loans made by us may decline in value, in turn reducing the borrowing ability of our customers.. Deterioration in the real estate market, particularly in New Jersey, could adversely affect our business.  A decline in real estate values in New Jersey would reduce our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate, which would increase the possibility that we may suffer losses on defaulted loans.. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices.. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans that we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan and lease losses.. Liquidity and Interest Rate Risks. A decrease in our ability to borrow funds could adversely affect our liquidity.. Our ability to obtain funding from the Federal Home Loan Bank (\"FHLB\") or through our overnight federal funds lines with other banks could be negatively affected if we experienced a substantial deterioration in our financial condition or if such funding became restricted due to deterioration in the financial markets.  While we have a contingency funds management plan to address such a situation if it were to occur (such plan includes deposit promotions, the sale of securities and the curtailment of loan growth, if necessary), a significant decrease in our ability to borrow funds could adversely affect our liquidity.. Public funds deposits are an important source of funds for us and a reduced level of those deposits may hurt our profits.. Public funds deposits are a significant source of funds for our lending and investment activities. The Company's public funds deposits consist of deposits from local government entities, domiciled in the state of New Jersey, such as school districts, counties and other municipalities, and are collateralized by letters of credit from the FHLB and investment securities. Given our use of these high-average balance public funds deposits as a source of funds, our inability to retain such funds could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, Governor Phil Murphy of New Jersey has proposed the creation of a state-owned bank which would accept public revenues to be invested in New Jersey. A bill was introduced in the New Jersey legislature in January 2018 that calls for the establishment of such a state-run bank.  While no assurance can be provided that such a bank will be created, to the extent that a state-run bank is established and accepts public revenues, the amount of the Company's public funds deposits could be reduced, which could adversely affect our liquidity.. Further, our public funds deposits are primarily demand deposit accounts or short-term time deposits and are therefore more sensitive to interest rate risks. If we are forced to pay higher rates on our public funds accounts to retain those funds, or if we are unable to retain such funds and we are forced to resort to other sources of funds for our lending and investment activities, such as borrowings from the FHLB, the interest expense associated with these other funding sources may be higher than the rates we are currently paying on our public funds deposits, which would adversely affect our net income.. -. 13. -. Table of Contents. We are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates that may negatively affect our financial performance.. We are unable to predict actual fluctuations of market interest rates.  Rate fluctuations are influenced by many factors, including:. • inflation or deflation. • excess growth or recession;. • a rise or fall in unemployment;. • tightening or expansion of the money supply;. • domestic and international disorder;. • instability in domestic and foreign financial markets; and. • actions taken or statements made by the Federal Reserve Board.. Both increases and decreases in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits.  We expect that we will continue to realize income from the difference or \"spread\" between the interest we earn on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest we pay on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities.  Our net interest spreads are affected by the differences between the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.  Our interest-earning assets may not reprice as slowly or rapidly as our interest-bearing liabilities.  Changes in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments, cash flows, market value of our securities portfolio, loan and deposit growth, costs and yields on loans and deposits and our overall profitability.  Competition for our deposits has increased significantly as a result of the continuing low interest rate environment.. Declines in value may adversely impact our investment portfolio.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $646.1 million and $139.7 million in available for sale and held to maturity investment securities, respectively.  We may be required to record impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary.  Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods.  If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of Lakeland to upstream dividends to the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios.. Information Technology or Cybersecurity Risks. The occurrence of any failure, breach, or interruption in service involving our systems or those of our service providers could damage our reputation, cause losses, increase our expenses, and result in a loss of customers, an increase in regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possibly financial liability, any of which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our stock.. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on electronic communications and information systems to conduct our operations and to store sensitive data. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in significant disruption to our operations. Information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include, but are not limited to, attempts to access information, including customer and company information, malicious code, computer viruses and denial of service attacks that could result in unauthorized access, misuse, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), account takeovers, unavailability of service or other events. These types of threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of external or internal parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Further, to access our products and services our customers may use computers and mobile devices that are beyond our security control systems. Our technologies, systems, networks and software, and those of other financial institutions have been, and are likely to continue to be, the target of cybersecurity threats and attacks, which may range from uncoordinated individual attempts to sophisticated and targeted measures directed at us. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased.. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of customer data, including personally identifiable information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services. We also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our. -. 14. -. Table of Contents. employees and information relating to our operations. The integrity and protection of that customer and company data is important to us. Our collection of such customer and company data is subject to extensive regulation and oversight.. Our customers and employees have been, and will continue to be, targeted by parties using fraudulent e-mails and other communications in attempts to misappropriate passwords, bank account information or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through \"Trojan horse\" programs to our information systems and/or our customers' computers. Though we endeavor to mitigate these threats through product improvements, use of encryption and authentication technology and customer and employee education, such cyber attacks against us or our merchants and our third party service providers remain a serious issue. The pervasiveness of cybersecurity incidents in general and the risks of cyber crime are complex and continue to evolve. More generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions.. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our information systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. While we maintain specific \"cyber\" insurance coverage, which would apply in the event of various breach scenarios, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. Furthermore, because cyber threat scenarios are inherently difficult to predict and can take many forms, some breaches may not be covered under our cyber insurance coverage. A security breach or other significant disruption of our information systems or those related to our customers, merchants and our third party vendors, including as a result of cyber attacks, could (i) disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; (ii) result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers; (iii) result in a violation of applicable privacy, data breach and other laws, subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose the us to civil litigation, governmental fines and possible financial liability; (iv) require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; or (v) harm our reputation or cause a decrease in the number of customers that choose to do business with us. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The inability to stay current with technological change could adversely affect our business model.. Financial institutions continually are required to maintain and upgrade technology in order to provide the most current products and services to their customers, as well as create operational efficiencies. This technology requires personnel resources, as well as significant costs to implement.  Failure to successfully implement technological change could adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations rely on certain third party vendors.. We rely on certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. These third party vendors are sources of operational and informational security risk to us, including risks associated with operational errors, information system interruptions or breaches and unauthorized disclosures of sensitive or confidential client or customer information. If these vendors encounter any of these issues, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, we could be exposed to disruption of operations, loss of service or connectivity to customers, reputational damage, and litigation risk that could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. While we have selected these external vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements, because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Replacing these external vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.. -. 15. -. Table of Contents. Legal and Regulatory Risks. The Dodd-Frank Act could materially and adversely affect us by increasing compliance costs, heightening our risk of noncompliance with applicable regulations, and changing the competitive landscape in the banking industry.. The Dodd-Frank Act has resulted in sweeping changes in the regulation of financial institutions. As discussed in the section herein entitled \"Business-Supervision and Regulation,\" the Dodd-Frank Act contains numerous provisions that affect all banks and bank holding companies.  Some of the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act were subject to regulatory rule-making and implementation, the full effects of which are not yet fully known. Although we cannot predict the full and specific impact and long-term effects that the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder will have on us and our prospects, our target markets and the financial industry more generally, we believe that the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder are likely to continue to impose additional administrative and regulatory burdens that will obligate us to continue to incur additional expenses and will continue to adversely affect our margins and profitability.  For example, the elimination of the prohibition on the payment of interest on demand deposits could materially increase our interest expense, depending on our competitors' responses.  Provisions in the legislation mandating modification of the capital requirements applicable to the Company and the Bank, and the resulting adoption by federal regulators of the new capital requirements described under \"Business-Supervision and Regulation-Capital Requirements,\" could require the Company and the Bank to seek additional sources of capital in the future. More stringent consumer protection regulations could materially and adversely affect our profitability.. President Donald Trump has stated that he intends to relax financial regulations, including various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules implementing those provisions.  The nature and extent of future legislative and regulatory changes affecting financial institutions remains very unpredictable at this time.. The Company and the Bank are subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements.. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies such as Lakeland Bancorp by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on bank holding companies and prohibiting new trust preferred issuances from counting as Tier I capital. These restrictions will limit our future capital strategies.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, our currently outstanding trust preferred securities will continue to count as Tier I capital, but we will be unable to issue replacement or additional trust preferred securities which would count as Tier I capital.. As further described above under \"Business-Supervision and Regulation-Capital Requirements,\" we were required to meet new capital requirements beginning on January 1, 2015.  In addition, beginning in 2016, banks and bank holding companies were required to maintain a capital conservation buffer on top of minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. The implementation of the capital conservation buffer began on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level, and increases by 0.625% on each subsequent January 1 until it reaches 2.5% when fully phased in on January 1, 2019. Banking institutions which do not maintain capital in excess of the capital conservation buffer face constraints on the payment of dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. Accordingly, if the Bank fails to maintain the applicable minimum capital ratios and the capital conservation buffer, distributions to Lakeland Bancorp may be prohibited or limited.. Future increases in minimum capital requirements could adversely affect our net income. Furthermore, our failure to comply with the minimum capital requirements could result in our regulators taking formal or informal actions against us which could restrict our future growth or operations.. -. 16. -. Table of Contents. The extensive regulation and supervision to which we are subject impose substantial restrictions on our business.. The Company, Lakeland and certain non-bank subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision.  Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole.  Such laws are not designed to protect our shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things.  Lakeland is also subject to a number of laws which, among other things, govern its lending practices and require the Bank to establish and maintain comprehensive programs relating to anti-money laundering and customer identification.  The United States Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things.  Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Lakeland's ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent that our holding company requires such dividends in the future, may affect our holding company's ability to pay its obligations and pay dividends to shareholders.. As a bank holding company, the Company is a separate legal entity from Lakeland Bank and its subsidiaries, and we do not have significant operations of our own.  We currently depend on Lakeland Bank's cash and liquidity to pay our operating expenses and dividends to shareholders.  The availability of dividends from Lakeland Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations.  The inability of the Company to receive dividends from Lakeland Bank could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects and the Company's ability to pay dividends.. In addition, as described under \"Business-Supervision and Regulation-Capital Requirements,\" banks and bank holding companies are required to maintain a capital conservation buffer on top of minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. The implementation of the capital conservation buffer began on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level, and increases by 0.625% on each subsequent January 1 until it reaches 2.5% when fully phased in on January 1, 2019. Banking institutions which do not maintain capital in excess of the capital conservation buffer will face constraints on the payment of dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. Accordingly, if Lakeland Bank fails to maintain the applicable minimum capital ratios and the capital conservation buffer, distributions to Lakeland Bancorp may be prohibited or limited.. Strategic and External Risks. The effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and future tax reform is uncertain and may adversely affect our business.. The current Presidential administration and U.S. Congress passed significant reform of the Internal Revenue Code, known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"the Tax Act\").  We have completed the process of determining the accounting under ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, for the income tax effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, as discussed in the related notes to the consolidated financial statements. The Company has therefore disclosed the impact that the Tax Act will have on its financial position and the results of operations.  Technical corrections or other forthcoming guidance could change how we interpret provisions of the Tax Act, which may impact our effective tax rate and could affect our deferred tax assets, tax positions and/or our tax liabilities.. While the decline in the federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% will lower the Company's income tax expense as a percent of its taxable income in 2018, other provisions of the Tax Act or future tax reform could negatively impact certain balance sheet and tax positions taken by the Company.  The Tax Act imposes higher limitations on the deductibility of interest and property tax expenses which may adversely impact the property values of real estate used to secure loans and create an additional tax burden for many borrowers, particularly in high tax jurisdictions such as the State of New Jersey where the Company operates.  These and other federal tax changes could significantly impact the financial health of our customers, potentially resulting, in among other things, an inability to repay loans or maintain deposits at the Bank.  Any negative financial impact to our customers resulting from tax reform could adversely impact our financial condition and earnings.. The ultimate impact of any tax reform on our business, customers and shareholders is uncertain and could be adverse.. Severe weather, acts of terrorism and other external events could impact our ability to conduct business.. Weather-related events have adversely impacted our market area in recent years, especially areas located near coastal waters and flood prone areas. Such events that may cause significant flooding and other storm-related damage may become more common events in the future. Financial institutions have been, and continue to be, targets of terrorist threats aimed at compromising. -. 17. -. Table of Contents. operating and communication systems and the metropolitan New York area, including New Jersey, remain central targets for potential acts of terrorism. Such events could cause significant damage, impact the stability of our facilities and result in additional expenses, impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, reduce the value of collateral securing repayment of our loans, and result in the loss of revenue. While we have established and regularly test disaster recovery procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition.. We face intense competition from other financial services and financial services technology companies, and competitive pressures could adversely affect our business or financial performance.. The Company faces intense competition in all of its markets and geographic regions.  The Company expects competitive pressures to intensify in the future, especially in light of legislative and regulatory initiatives arising out of the recent global economic crisis, technological innovations that alter the barriers to entry, current economic and market conditions, and government monetary and fiscal policies.  Competition with financial services technology companies, or technology companies partnering with financial services companies, may be particularly intense, due to, among other things, differing regulatory environments.  Competitive pressures may drive the Company to take actions that the Company might otherwise eschew, such as lowering the interest rates or fees on loans or raising the interest rates on deposits in order to keep or attract high-quality customers. These pressures also may accelerate actions that the Company might otherwise elect to defer, such as substantial investments in technology or infrastructure. Whatever the reason, actions that the Company takes in response to competition may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. These consequences could be exacerbated if the Company is not successful in introducing new products and other services, achieving market acceptance of its products and other services, developing and maintaining a strong customer base, or prudently managing expenses.. The Company's future growth may require the Company to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may be available only at an excessive cost.. The Company is required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. The Company anticipates that current capital levels will satisfy regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future.  The Company, however, may at some point choose to raise additional capital to support its continued growth.  The Company's ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Company's control. Accordingly, the Company may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all.  If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impacted. In the event of a material decrease in the Company's stock price, future issuances of equity securities could result in dilution of existing shareholder interests.. Operational Risks. The Company may incur impairment to goodwill.. We review our goodwill at least annually.  Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely on projections of future operating performance.  We operate in a competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results.  Additionally, if our analysis results in an impairment to our goodwill, we would be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which such impairment is determined to exist.  Any such charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price.. We could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls.. We continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to continually strengthen our controls and ensure compliance with complex accounting standards and banking regulations. A failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of us.. Our risk management strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposures in all market environments or against all types of risk.. We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our risk management strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. As our products and services change and grow and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management strategies may not always adapt to those changes. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and management's judgment. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater. -. 18. -. Table of Contents. than the historical measures indicate. Management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal, regulatory and compliance risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The inability to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our Company's business.. The success of the Company depends partially on the ability to attract and retain a high level of experienced personnel.  The inability to attract and retain key employees, as well as find suitable replacements, if necessary, could adversely affect the Company's customer relationships and internal operations.. The accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected if the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies are inaccurate.. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosure in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which are included in Item 7 of this report captioned \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\", describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that we consider \"critical\" because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially affect our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, those events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.. If we do not successfully integrate any banks that we may acquire in the future, the combined company may be adversely affected.. If we make acquisitions in the future, we will need to integrate the acquired entities into our existing business and systems.  We may experience difficulties in accomplishing this integration or in effectively managing the combined company after any future acquisition.  Any actual cost savings or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from a future acquisition will depend on future expense levels and operating results, the timing of certain events and general industry, regulatory and business conditions.  Many of these events will be beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that if we make any acquisitions in the future, we will be successful in integrating those businesses into our own."
