[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. <U+FEFF>. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in the Company, investors should consider, among other factors, the following:. Risks Related To Our Business. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss.  We originate commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans, consumer loans, and residential real estate loans (including home equity loans) primarily within our market area.  Our business strategy is to increase our commercial real estate and commercial business loan portfolios. Commercial real estate, commercial business, and consumer loans, which comprised in the aggregate 50.0% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2017, has increased from 43.1% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2016. These types of loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate.  In addition, commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers.  These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons:. 33. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCommercial Real Estate Loans.  Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCommercial Business Loans.  Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's business.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tConsumer Loans.  Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) may or may not be collateralized with assets that provide an adequate source of payment for the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss.. Deterioration in economic conditions in our market areas could affect the performance of our loan portfolio. Higher prices for businesses and consumers and high unemployment could negatively affect our loan portfolio, if business owners or consumers are not able to make loan payments.  A downturn in the real estate market or our national or local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from our borrowers' businesses thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease.  Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance.  We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.  A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could exacerbate this risk.  We review our allowance for loan losses on a monthly basis to ensure that it is funded adequately to cover any anticipated losses.. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance for loan losses.  We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans.  We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses.  If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. The Bank's increased focus on commercial loan originations has been one of the more significant factors we have taken into account in evaluating our allowance for loan losses and provision for loan losses.  If we were to further increase the amount of commercial loans in our portfolio, we may decide to make increased provisions for loan losses.  In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Low demand for real estate loans may lower our profitability.    Making loans secured by real estate, including one- to four-family and commercial real estate, is our primary business and primary source of revenue.  If customer demand for real estate loans decreases, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments, primarily securities, generally earn less income than real estate loans.  Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates.  We experienced commercial loan growth during 2015 through 2017, especially in the Erie County market area, which had a positive impact on net interest income.  If rates begin to rise, loan demand may slow down, and deposit expenses may increase, which could lower our profitability.. The results of our operations may be adversely affected by environmental conditions. During the course of making loans secured by real estate, we have acquired and may acquire in the future, property securing loans that are in default.  There is a risk that we could be required to investigate and clean-up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at such properties after acquisition in a foreclosure action, and that we may be held liable to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with such contamination.  In addition, the owner or former owners of contaminated sites may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from such property.  An environmental assessment of real estate securing commercial loans is completed prior to loan closing. This initial assessment may indicate a higher level of testing is needed.  The borrower is then required to have further testing and complete any remedial. 34. action recommended.  To date, we have not been subject to any environmental claims.  There can be no assurance, however, that this will remain the case in the future.. We have opened new branches and may open additional new branches in the near future.  Opening new branches reduces our short-term profitability due to one-time fixed expenses coupled with low levels of income earned by the branches until their customer bases are built.  We may continue to expand through de novo branching.  The expense associated with building and staffing new branches will significantly increase our non-interest expense, with compensation and occupancy costs constituting the largest amount of increased costs.  Losses are expected from new branches for some time as the expenses associated with it are largely fixed and typically greater than the income earned as a branch builds up its customer base.  There can be no assurance that a branch expansion strategy will result in increased earnings, or that it will result in increased earnings within a reasonable period of time.  We expect that the success of a branching strategy will depend largely on the ability of our staff to market the deposit and loan products offered by us.  The probability of opening a new branch will depend on available site locations, the economic environment and projected demand in targeted market areas.. The results of our operations may be adversely affected if asset valuations cause other-than-temporary impairment charges. We may be required to record future impairment charges on our investment securities or other assets if they suffer declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio or other assets in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity, its ability to pay dividends to shareholders, and its regulatory capital ratios.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates.  We derive our income mainly from the difference or \"spread\" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our income.. From an interest rate risk perspective, we have generally been liability sensitive, which indicates that our liabilities generally re-price faster than assets.  Our earnings may be adversely impacted by an increase in interest rates because the majority of our interest-earning assets are long-term, fixed rate mortgage-related assets that will not re-price as long-term interest rates increase. As rates rise, we expect loan applications to decrease, prepayment speeds to slow down and the interest rate on our loan portfolio to remain static. Conversely, a majority of our interest-bearing liabilities have much shorter contractual maturities and are expected to re-price, resulting in increased interest expense. A significant portion of our deposits have no contractual maturities and are likely to re-price quickly as short-term interest rates increase. Therefore, in an increasing rate environment, our cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than the yields earned on our loan and securities portfolios.. In response to improving economic conditions, the Federal Reserve Board has slowly increased its federal funds target rate from a range of 0.00%-0.25% that was in effect for several years to the current range of 1.25%-1.50% as of December 31, 2017.  It is projected that the Federal Reserve Board may increase the federal funds target rate three times during 2018, or an additional  increase of 75 basis points.  While we believe that modest interest rate increases will not significantly hurt our interest rate spread over the long term due to sufficient liquidity levels and the presence of adjustable-rate mortgage loans in our loan portfolio, interest rate increases may initially reduce our interest rate spread until such time as our loans and investments reprice to higher levels.. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our interest-earning assets including, but not limited to, our securities portfolio. In particular, the unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income which is a component of stockholders'. 35. equity. As such, declines in the fair value of such securities resulting from increases in market interest rates may adversely affect stockholders' equity.. In a decreasing interest rate environment, our earnings may increase or decrease. If long-term interest-earning assets do not re-price and interest rates on short-term deposits begin to decrease, earnings may rise. However, low interest rates on loan products may result in an increase in prepayments, as borrowers refinance their loans. If we cannot re-invest the funds received from prepayments at a comparable spread, net interest income could be reduced. Also, in a falling interest rate environment, certain categories of deposits may reach a point where market forces prevent further reduction in interest paid on those products. The net effect of these circumstances is reduced net interest income and possibly net interest rate spread.. The Bank's Asset-Liability Committee is responsible for balance sheet strategy and for monitoring the impact of changing interest rates on the Bank's operations and financial condition.. We are subject to certain risks with respect to liquidity. \"Liquidity\" refers to our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support our operations and to fulfill our obligations, including commitments to originate loans, to repay our wholesale borrowings and other liabilities and to satisfy the withdrawal of deposits by our customers.  Our primary source of liquidity is our core deposit base, which is raised through our retail branch network.  Core deposits - consisting of savings and money market accounts, time deposits less than $250,000 and demand deposits - comprised approximately 94.5% of total deposits at December 31, 2017.  Additional available unused sources of liquidity include borrowings from the FHLB, access to brokered deposits and lines of credit with correspondent banks.  Liquidity is further provided by unencumbered, or unpledged, investment securities that totaled $63.4 million at December 31, 2017.. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and/or investment securities and from other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity.  Our most important source of funds consists of our customer deposits.  Such deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff.  If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we could lose a relatively low cost source of funds, which would require us to seek wholesale funding alternatives in order to continue to grow, thereby increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income.. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the banking industry in general.  Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the banking industry.. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to continue to implement our strategic plan, including originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, pay dividends to our shareholders or to fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to implement our business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services.  We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team.  The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel.  Although we have an employment agreement with our President and Chief Executive Officer, that contains a non-compete provision, the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy.. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.   We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer accounts, general ledger, deposit, loan. 36. and other systems. There have been increasing efforts to breach data security at financial institutions through cyber-attacks. Recently, there have been several instances involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data. We may be unable to proactively address these types of security breaches or to implement adequate preventative measures because the techniques used to cause these breaches change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas throughout the world. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent, limit or mitigate the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it will be adequately addressed.  We periodically review our security protocols and, as necessary, add additional security measures to our computer systems and network infrastructure to mitigate the possibility of cybersecurity breaches, including firewalls and penetration testing.  Additionally, we outsource our data processing to third parties. If the third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. Furthermore, breaches of such third party's technology may also cause reimbursable loss to our consumer and business customers, through no fault of our own. Fraud attacks targeting customer-controlled devices, plastic payment card terminals, and merchant data collection points provide another source of potential loss, again through no fault of our own. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of information systems used to process customer transactions could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We regularly assess and test our systems, including back-up systems, but the risks are substantially escalating.  As a result, cybersecurity and the continued enhancement of our controls and processes to protect our systems, data and networks from attacks, unauthorized access or significant damage remains a priority.   The Company has developed a disaster recovery plan, which includes plans to maintain or resume operations in the event of an emergency, such as a power outage or natural disaster, and contingency plans in the event that operations or systems cannot be resumed or restored.  The disaster recovery plan is periodically reviewed and updated, and components of the disaster recovery plan are periodically tested and validated.  The Company also reviews and evaluates the disaster recovery programs of vendors which provide certain third-party systems that the Company considers critical.  The Company has obtained insurance protection intended to cover losses due to network security breaches; there is no guarantee, however, that such insurance would cover all costs associated with any breach, damage or failure of our computer systems and network infrastructure.. We continually encounter technological change.  The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Our largest competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our ability to grow may be limited.   We intend to seek to expand our banking franchise, organically and by acquiring other financial institutions or branches and other financial service providers if the right opportunity occurs.  However, we have no specific plans for expansion or acquisitions at this time.  Our ability to grow through selective acquisitions of other financial institutions or branches will depend on successfully identifying, acquiring and integrating those institutions or branches.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate organic growth or identify attractive acquisition candidates, make acquisitions on favorable terms or successfully integrate any acquired institutions or branches.. 37. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits.  Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the \"SEC\"), requires us to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting and provide an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.  The Company has established a process to document and evaluate its internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations, which require management consideration of the Company's internal controls over financial reporting on an annual basis.  In this regard, management has dedicated internal resources and adopted a detailed work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting, (ii) take steps to improve control processes, where appropriate, (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and (iv) maintain a continuous internal reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting.  The Company's management and Audit/Risk Committee have made the Company's compliance with Section 404 a high priority.  The Company cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that the Company implements and maintains adequate controls over its financial processes and reporting in the future.  Any failure to implement appropriate new or improved controls in response to changes in financial processes or reporting, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could harm the Company's operating results or cause the Company to fail to meets its reporting obligations.  If the Company fails to correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or fails to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in the Company's financial reporting, which could harm its business and the trading price of its stock.. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for significant losses.  Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss to the Company. We seek to identify, measure, monitor, report and control our exposure to risk, including credit, interest rate, liquidity, price, operations, compliance, strategic, and reputation risks.  We additionally segregate and assess information technology and human resource risks due to their complexity and over-arching risk profiles.   While we use a diverse set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, these techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. Recent economic conditions and heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, among other developments, have increased our level of risk. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks.. Public shareholders do not exercise voting control over us. A majority of our voting stock is owned by Lake Shore, MHC.  Lake Shore, MHC is controlled by its Board of Directors, which consist of those persons who are members of the Board of Directors of Lake Shore Bancorp and Lake Shore Savings.  Lake Shore, MHC will determine the outcome of the election of the Board of Directors of Lake Shore Bancorp, and, as a general matter, controls the outcome of all matters presented to the shareholders of Lake Shore Bancorp for resolution by vote, except for matters that require a vote greater than Lake Shore, MHC's ownership interest.  Consequently, Lake Shore, MHC, acting through its Board of Directors, is able to control the business and operations of Lake Shore Bancorp and may be able to prevent any challenge to the ownership or control of Lake Shore Bancorp by shareholders other than Lake Shore, MHC.  There is no assurance that Lake Shore, MHC will not take actions that the public shareholders believe are against their interests.. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. A new accounting standard may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for the Company and the Bank for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2019.  This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses.  This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we will need to collect and review to determine the. 38. appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Risks Related To Recent Developments And The Banking Industry Generally. <U+FEFF>. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and/or increase our costs of operations. Lake Shore Savings, Lake Shore Bancorp and Lake Shore, MHC are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC and the Federal Reserve Board.  Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of federal deposit insurance funds and the depositors and borrowers of Lake Shore Savings, rather than for our stockholders.  Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses.  These regulations, along with existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance and monetary laws, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures.  Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations.  Further, changes in accounting standards can be both difficult to predict and involve judgment and discretion in their interpretation by us and our independent accounting firms.  These changes could materially impact, potentially even retroactively, how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and our interpretation of those changes.. The Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies.  The Dodd-Frank Act required various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress.  The federal agencies have been given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations.  The Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets.  Banks with $10 billion or less in assets continue to be examined for compliance with consumer laws by their primary bank regulators.  The Dodd-Frank Act also weakened the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings banks, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws.. Compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations and policies has resulted in changes to our business and operations, as well as additional costs, and has diverted management's time from other business activities, which adversely affects our financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to the ability of Lake Shore Savings to make capital distributions to Lake Shore Bancorp and the waiver of dividends by Lake Shore, MHC. The value of Lake Shore Bancorp's common stock is significantly affected by our ability to pay dividends to our public shareholders.  Our long-term ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is based primarily upon the ability of the Bank to make capital distributions to Lake Shore Bancorp, and also the availability of cash at the holding company level in the event earnings are not sufficient to pay dividends. Under OCC safe harbor regulations, the Bank may distribute capital to Lake Shore Bancorp in an amount not exceeding net income for the current calendar period and the prior two calendar years.  Our ability to pay dividends and the amount of such dividends is also affected by the ability of Lake Shore, MHC, our mutual holding company and majority shareholder of Lake Shore Bancorp, to waive the receipt of dividends declared by Lake Shore Bancorp. Lake Shore, MHC waived its right to receive most of its dividends on its shares of Lake Shore Bancorp since its inception in 2006, with the exception of four dividends declared since 2006. The ability to waive dividends meant that Lake Shore Bancorp had more cash resources to pay dividends to its public shareholders than if Lake Shore, MHC accepted such dividends.  Lake Shore, MHC is now required to obtain a waiver from the Federal Reserve Board allowing it to waive its right to dividends.. 39. Under Section 239.8(d) of the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation MM governing dividend waivers, a mutual holding company may waive its right to dividends on shares of its subsidiary if the mutual holding company gives written notice of the waiver to the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Board does not object. For a company such as Lake Shore, MHC, that was formed, issued stock and waived dividends prior to December 1, 2009, the Federal Reserve Board may not object to a dividend waiver if such waiver would not be detrimental to the safety and soundness of the savings bank subsidiary and the board of directors of the mutual holding company expressly determines that such dividend waiver is consistent with the board's fiduciary duties to the members of the mutual holding company.  Regulation MM also requires as a condition to waiving dividends, that a mutual holding company obtain the approval of a majority of the eligible votes of its members within 12 months prior to the declaration of the dividend being waived.. Lake Shore, MHC solicited its members (the depositors of Lake Shore Savings Bank) to vote on the proposal to waive dividends and on February 7, 2018, the members approved the waiver of dividends. The Board of Directors of Lake Shore, MHC subsequently approved a dividend waiver in accordance with the regulations and submitted it to the Federal Reserve Board for its non-objection. As of March 9, 2018, Lake Shore, MHC received notice of the non-objection of the Federal Reserve Board to waive its right to receive dividends paid by the Company during the twelve months ending February 7, 2019. It is expected that Lake Shore, MHC will continue to waive future dividends, except to the extent dividends are needed to fund Lake Shore, MHC's continuing operations, subject to the ability of Lake Shore, MHC to obtain regulatory approval of its requests to waive dividends and its ability to obtain future member approval of dividend waivers.. While Lake Shore, MHC is grandfathered for purposes of the dividend waiver provisions of Regulation MM and has complied with all additional requirements imposed, we cannot predict whether the Federal Reserve Board will grant a dividend waiver request and, if granted, there can be no assurance as to the conditions, if any, the Federal Reserve Board will place on future dividend waiver requests by grandfathered mutual holding companies such as Lake Shore, MHC. If Lake Shore, MHC is unable to waive the receipt of dividends, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders may be substantially impaired and the amounts of any such dividends may be significantly reduced.. We are subject to more stringent capital requirements, which may adversely impact our return on equity, require us to raise additional capital or constrain us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares. In July 2013, the federal banking agencies approved a new rule that substantially amends the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The final rule implements the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.. The final rule included new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which became effective for Lake Shore Savings on January 1, 2015 and refined the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating these ratios.  The  new minimum capital requirements are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The final rule also established a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5%, and will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement was phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. For 2018, the capital conservation buffer will be 1.875% of risk-weighted assets.  An institution is subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions.. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Lake Shore Savings could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions such as the inability to pay dividends or repurchase shares if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements.. 40. Our local economy may affect our future growth possibilities.  Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our current market area, which is primarily located in Western New York, in particular within Erie and Chautauqua counties.  Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations.    If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be negatively affected. A weak economy could lead to a deterioration of the credit quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of customer deposits, which in turn would hurt our business.   Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that may secure our loans could be adversely affected.. Competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and originate loans.  We operate in a competitive market for both attracting deposits, which is our primary source of funds, and originating loans.  Our most direct competition for savings deposits has come from credit unions, commercial banks, savings banks and online banks.  Particularly in times of extremely low or extremely high interest rates, we have faced additional significant competition for depositors from brokerage firms and other firms' short-term money market securities and corporate and government securities.  Our competition for loans comes principally from commercial banks, savings banks, mortgage banking companies, credit unions, online retail mortgage lenders and other financial service companies.  Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects.  Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry.  Our profitability will depend upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas.. Changes in the Federal Reserve Board's monetary or fiscal policies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Our earnings will be affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies.  The Federal Reserve Board has, and is likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of banks through its power to implement national monetary policy, among other things, in order to curb inflation or combat a recession.  The Federal Reserve Board affects the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its control over the issuance of United States government securities, its regulation of the discount rate applicable to member banks and its influence over reserve requirements to which member banks are subject.  We cannot predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies.. <U+FEFF>. Our stock price may be volatile due to limited trading volume. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. However, the average daily trading volume in Lake Shore Bancorp's common stock has been relatively small, averaging less than 1,000 shares per day during 2017. As a result, trades involving a relatively small number of shares may have a significant effect on the market price of the common stock, and it may be difficult for investors to acquire or dispose of large blocks of stock without significantly affecting the market price.. <U+FEFF>. We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations.  Changes in tax laws contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted in December 2017, include a number of provisions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for single-family residential real estate. Included in this legislation is a reduction of the Company's corporate income tax rate from 34% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. In addition, other changes include (i) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (ii) a  limitation on interest deductions for home equity loans not used for home improvement, (iii) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense and (iv) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes.  These recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. In addition, these recent changes may also have a disproportionate effect on taxpayers in states with high residential home prices and high state and local taxes, such as New York. If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease. The value of the properties securing loans in our loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership, which. 41. could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>"
