[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business, results of operations and distributable cash flow, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common units.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may not generate sufficient distributable cash flow to support the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders.. In order to support the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.2875 per unit per quarter, or $1.15 per unit on an annualized basis, we must generate distributable cash flow of approximately $6.7 million per quarter, or approximately $26.8 million per year, based on the number of common units and subordinated units outstanding as of December 31, 2017. We may not generate sufficient distributable cash flow each quarter to support the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our tenant leases, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. •  any cancellations under our tenant leases, which are typically cancelable with 30 to 180 days' prior written notice;. •  our lease renewal rate and the turnover rate in our tenant base;. •  our ability to identify and secure suitable tenants for sites that may become available for lease;. •  the amount and timing of rental payments under our tenant leases, including leases where rent is not paid monthly (such as leases where rent is paid annually);. •  our ability to maintain or increase rents on our tenant leases;. •  damage to our real property interests and/or our tenants' assets caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; and. •  prevailing economic and market conditions in the wireless communication, outdoor advertising and renewable power generation industries, as well as in the broader economy.. 20. Table of Contents. In addition, the actual amount of distributable cash flow we generate will also depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. •  the amount of our operating expenses and general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to Landmark, some of which are not subject to any caps or other limits, in respect of those expenses;. •  the level of capital expenditures we make;. •  the cost of acquisitions, if any;. •  our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. •  changes in interest rates;. •  fluctuations in our working capital needs;. •  our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. •  restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and other debt service requirements;. •  the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and. •  other business risks affecting our cash levels.. The amount of cash we will have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes.. Our right of first offer is subject to risks and uncertainty, and ultimately we may not acquire any of those assets.. Our omnibus agreement provides us with a right of first offer on certain existing assets of, and certain assets that may be acquired in the future by, the Remaining Landmark Funds. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions of these assets will depend upon, among other things, Landmark's or the Remaining Landmark Funds' willingness to offer these assets for sale, our ability to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements and commercial agreements with respect to the assets, the ability to obtain third-party consents, which may be necessary to transfer such assets, and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisitions in keeping with our right of first offer, and Landmark and the Remaining Landmark Funds are under no obligation to accept any offer that we may choose to make. Landmark may also contribute assets to new private funds that it may form that will not be subject to our right of first offer. In addition, we may decide not to exercise our right of first offer if and when any assets are offered for sale, and our decision will not be subject to unitholder approval.. Our growth strategy requires access to new capital; unfavorable capital markets could impair our ability to grow.. We continuously consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions or growth capital expenditures. Any limitations on our access to new capital will impair our ability to execute this strategy. If the cost of capital becomes too expensive, our ability to develop or acquire strategic and accretive assets will be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors that influence our cost of equity include market conditions, including our then current unit price, fees we pay to underwriters and other offering costs, which include amounts we pay for legal and accounting services. Weak economic conditions and volatility and disruption in the financial markets could increase the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets substantially while diminishing the availability of funds from those markets.. If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions of real property interests or deploy accretive development infrastructure, our growth could be limited.. We are experiencing increased competition for the types of real property interests we contemplate acquiring and developing. Weak economic conditions and competition for such acquisitions or developments could limit our ability to fully execute our growth strategy. Additionally, Landmark is not restricted from competing with us and has no obligation or duty to present us with acquisition opportunities. It may acquire and sell future real property interests to the Remaining Landmark Funds, other funds that it may sponsor in the future or other third parties. Please read \"Conflicts of Interest.\". 21. Table of Contents. If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions from Landmark, the Remaining Landmark Funds or third-parties, because, among other reasons, (i) the Remaining Landmark Funds elect not to sell assets subject to our right of first offer, (ii) Landmark does not offer other acquisition opportunities to us, (iii) we are unable to identify attractive third-party acquisition opportunities, (iv) we are unable to negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with Landmark, the Remaining Landmark Funds or third parties, (v) we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, (vi) we are outbid by competitors or (vii) we are unable to obtain necessary governmental or third-party consents, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. Any acquisition or infrastructure development involves potential risk, including, among other things:. •  mistaken assumptions about revenue and costs, including potential growth;. •  an inability to secure adequate tenant commitments to lease the acquired properties;. •  an inability to integrate successfully the assets we acquire;. •  the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate;. •  the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; and. •  unforeseen difficulties of operating in new geographic areas or industries.. We are dependent on Landmark for acquisitions and our ability to expand may be limited if Landmark's business does not grow as expected.. A major component of our growth strategy is dependent on acquisitions from Landmark and its affiliates and third parties. We do not have any employees and will rely on Landmark to offer us acquisition opportunities and to provide acquisition services including identifying, underwriting and closing on acquisitions from third parties. If Landmark is unsuccessful in completing acquisitions for us, our growth will be limited.. Furthermore, our growth strategy depends on the growth of Landmark's business. If Landmark focuses on other growth areas or does not or cannot make acquisitions of real property interests in our target industries, we may not be able to fully execute our growth strategy.. We have limited experience acquiring real property interests associated with assets in the renewable power generation industry and other fragmented industries and international real property interests.. Although we believe we will be able to effectively expand into new markets (in particular the renewable power generation industry), our experience in acquiring real property interests in the renewable power generation industry and other fragmented industries, as well as real property interests internationally, is limited. As a result, we may encounter unforeseen difficulties in our efforts to identify essential assets, assess and underwrite the risk levels associated with such assets, negotiate favorable terms with property owners, negotiate favorable terms with operators of these assets, and comply with applicable laws and regulations.. If we are unable to correctly predict rental rates, cancellation rates, demand, consolidation trends and growth trends in these industries, a material adverse impact on our results of operations and distributable cash flow could result. If we are unable to effectively expand internationally or into the renewable power generation industry and other fragmented industries, our growth rate may be adversely impacted.. Renewable power generation, including wind and solar power generation, is still in the early stages of its formation, and as such, widespread use of wind and solar generation assets may not develop. Weak growth in the renewable power generation industry could hamper our growth prospects.. Renewable power generation is only beginning to be implemented in the United States and, as such, renewable power sources such as wind turbines and solar arrays are not widespread. Part of our growth strategy is to continue to acquire real property interests in this industry, and a failure of the renewable power generation industry to grow quickly enough in the United States could negatively impact our future growth and negatively impact our future revenue.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price will be impacted by our level of our cash distributions and our implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. As a result, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. 22. Table of Contents. Our debt service payments will reduce our net income. Moreover, we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy our debt obligations.. We may not be able to access financing sources on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. We intend to finance all or a portion of our acquisitions of real property interests through the issuance of debt, credit facility borrowings and a variety of other means. Our ability to access sources of financing will depend on various conditions in the markets for financing in this manner which are beyond our control, including lack of liquidity and greater credit spreads, prevailing interest rates and other factors. We cannot assure prospective investors that any sources of debt financing markets will become or remain an efficient and cost-effective source of long-term financing for our assets. If our current debt financing strategy is not viable, we will have to find alternative forms of financing for our acquisitions. This could require us to incur costlier financing which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. Our hedging strategy may be ineffective in reducing the impact of interest rate volatility on our cash flows, which could result in financial losses and adversely impact our distributable cash flow.. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in prevailing market interest rates, we intend to hedge interest rate risks related to a portion of our borrowings over time by means of interest rate swap agreements or other arrangements. To the extent that these derivative instruments are ineffective, fluctuations in market interest rates could result in financial losses and adversely impact our distributable cash flow.. If we are unable to borrow at favorable rates, we may not be able to acquire new real property interests, which could reduce our income and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. If we are unable to borrow money at favorable rates, we may be unable to acquire additional real property interests or refinance loans at maturity. Further, we will amend and restate the secured debt facilities as a new secured revolving credit facility and may enter into other credit arrangements that require us to pay interest on amounts we borrow at variable or \"adjustable\" rates. Increases in interest rates increase our interest costs. If interest rates are higher when we refinance our loans, our expenses will increase and we may not be able to pass on this added cost in the form of increased rents, thereby reducing our cash flow and the amount available for distribution to you. Further, during periods of rising interest rates, we may be forced to sell one or more of our real property interests in order to repay existing loans, which may not permit us to maximize the return on the particular real property interests being sold.. Landmark's level of indebtedness, the terms of its borrowings and any future credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to grow our business, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders, and our ability to obtain debt financing.. If the level of Landmark's indebtedness increases significantly in the future, it would increase the risk that Landmark may default on its obligations to us under our omnibus agreement, including its agreement to cap the amount of our reimbursement for general and administrative expenses. The terms of Landmark's indebtedness may limit its ability to borrow additional funds and may impact our operations in a similar manner. If Landmark were to default under its debt obligations, Landmark's creditors could attempt to assert claims against our assets during the litigation of their claims against Landmark. The defense of any such claims could be costly and could materially impact our financial condition, absent any adverse determination. If these claims were successful, our ability to meet our obligations to our creditors, make distributions, and finance our operations could be materially adversely affected.. The industries in which our tenants and their sub-lessees operate could experience further consolidation, which may put one or more of our tenants or our tenants' sub-lessees at risk of going out of business or significantly changing its operations.. Existing and potential tenants may enter into joint ventures, mergers, acquisitions or other cooperative agreements with other of our tenants. Such industry consolidation can potentially reduce the diversity of our tenant base and give tenants greater leverage over us, as their landlord, due to overlapping coverage, ability to increase co-location on nearby existing sites and through aggressive lease negotiations on multiple sites. Such actions have the potential to reduce our revenue in the future. Significant consolidation among our tenants in the wireless communication industry (or our tenants' sub-lessees) may result in the decommissioning of certain existing communications sites, because certain portions of these tenants' (or their sub-lessees') networks may be redundant. For example, T-Mobile's acquisition of MetroPCS (completed in 2013), Sprint's acquisition of the remaining interest in Clearwire (completed in 2013), and AT&T's acquisition of Leap Wireless (completed in 2014). The loss of any one of our large customers as a result of joint ventures, mergers, acquisitions or other cooperative agreements may result in (1) a material decrease in our revenue, (2) an impairment of the value of our real property interests, or (3) other adverse effects to our business. In addition, certain combined companies have undergone or are currently undergoing a modernization of their networks, and these and other tenants and/or sub-lessees could determine not to renew leases with us (or our tenants) as a result. Our future results may be negatively impacted if a significant number of these leases are terminated, and our ongoing contractual revenue would be reduced as a result.. 23. Table of Contents. In addition, certain of our real property interests are rooftop wireless communication sites. Unlike a cellular tower, which will often accommodate multiple tenants through co-location, rooftop wireless communication sites are often rented to only one tenant. A cancellation by a tenant of its lease on a rooftop wireless site will therefore have a much greater effect on that real property interest than a cancellation by one tenant (of several co-located tenants) of its lease on a cellular tower.. Our business depends significantly on the demand for wireless communication and related wireless infrastructure, and we may be adversely affected by any slowdown in such demand. Additionally, a reduction in wireless carrier network investment may materially and adversely affect our business (including reducing demand for new tenant additions or network services).. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from our real property interests associated with wireless communication and related wireless infrastructure. This infrastructure ultimately depends on the demand for wireless voice and data services by consumers. The willingness of consumers to utilize the existing wireless infrastructure, and the willingness of our tenants to renew or extend existing leases, is affected by numerous factors, including:. •  a decrease in consumer demand for wireless services due to general economic conditions or other factors;. •  the financial condition of wireless carriers and/or cellular tower operators;. •  the ability and willingness of wireless carriers and/or cellular tower operators to maintain or increase capital expenditures on network infrastructure;. •  the growth rate of the wireless communication industry or of a particular industry segment;. •  mergers or consolidations among wireless carriers and/or cellular tower operators;. •  increased use of network sharing, roaming or resale arrangements by wireless carriers;. •  delays or changes in the deployment of next generation wireless technologies;. •  zoning, environmental, health or other government regulations or changes in the application and enforcement thereof; and. •  unforeseen technological changes.. A slowdown in demand for wireless communication or wireless infrastructure may negatively impact our growth or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. New technologies may significantly reduce demand for our wireless infrastructure or negatively impact our revenue.. Improvements in the efficiency of wireless networks could reduce the demand for our tenants' wireless infrastructure. For example, signal combining technologies that permit one antenna to service multiple frequencies and, thereby, multiple customers may reduce the need for our tenants' wireless infrastructure. In addition, other technologies, such as Wi-Fi, femtocells, other small cells, or satellite (such as low earth orbiting) and mesh transmission systems may, in the future, serve as substitutes for, or alternatives to, leasing that might otherwise be anticipated on wireless infrastructure had such technologies not existed. Any significant reduction in wireless infrastructure leasing demand resulting from the previously mentioned technologies or other technologies may negatively impact our revenue or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.. Our business depends significantly on the demand for outdoor advertising, and we may be adversely affected by any slowdown in such demand. Additionally, a change in advertising strategies and/or zoning regulations may materially and adversely affect our business (including reducing demand for outdoor advertising space).. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from our real property interests associated with the outdoor advertising industry. The value of these real property interests ultimately depends on the demand for outdoor advertising space and the market rates for advertising. The willingness of advertisers to utilize and willingness of billboard owners to upgrade existing bulletin boards, and the willingness of our tenants to renew or extend existing leases, is affected by numerous factors, including:. •  a decrease in advertisers' budgets due to general economic conditions or other factors;. •  the financial condition of outdoor advertising companies and/or their customers;. •  the ability and willingness of outdoor advertising companies to maintain or increase capital expenditures on upgrading bulletin billboards to digital billboards;. •  mergers or consolidations among outdoor advertising companies;. •  zoning, environmental, health or other government regulations or changes in the application and enforcement thereof; and. •  unforeseen technological changes.. 24. Table of Contents. A slowdown in demand for outdoor advertising may negatively impact our growth or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. Due to the long-term expectations of revenue from tenant leases, our results are sensitive to the creditworthiness and financial strength of our tenants and their sub-lessees.. Due to the long-term nature of our tenant leases and their sub-leases, our performance is dependent on the continued financial strength of our tenants and their sub-lessees, many of whom operate with substantial leverage. Many tenants and potential tenants rely on capital raising activities to fund their operations and capital expenditures, and downturns in the economy or disruptions in the financial and credit markets may make it more difficult and more expensive to raise capital. If our tenants or sub-lessees (or potential tenants or sub-lessees) are unable to raise adequate capital to fund their business plans, they may reduce their spending, which could materially and adversely affect demand for our sites and equipment upgrades. If, as a result of a prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, one or more of our tenants experienced financial difficulties or filed for bankruptcy, it could result in uncollectible accounts receivable and an impairment of our deferred rent asset. In addition, it could result in the loss of significant customers and all or a portion of our anticipated lease revenue from certain tenants, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.. A tenant bankruptcy or insolvency could result in the termination of such tenant's lease, which could reduce revenue.. Upon the bankruptcy of a tenant, typically the tenant would have the right to assume or reject the tenant's lease at its option and we would not be permitted to terminate the tenant's lease solely on the basis of such bankruptcy. The tenant will have until 120 days after the filing of bankruptcy to make a decision on assumption or rejection, subject to further extension of such time period by the bankruptcy court. In addition, contractual restrictions on the assignment of an unexpired lease of a bankrupt tenant are typically not enforceable. If a bankrupt tenant rejects a tenant lease, applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code will limit our claim for damages to the greater of any unpaid rent due under the lease on the earlier of (i) the date of filing of the bankruptcy case, or (ii) the date on which the leased property was repossessed or surrendered, plus (a) the \"rent reserved\" by the rejected lease for one year, or (b) for 15% of the remainder of the lease, not to exceed three years from the commencement of the case or the surrender of the property plus unpaid rent accrued prior to such date. These limitations could substantially reduce the claim we would be entitled to assert against the bankrupt tenant in the event the lease is rejected. Furthermore, even this limited claim for rent may not be fully paid in a bankruptcy proceeding, as such claim would share pro rata in recovery with all other general unsecured claims. Such provisions would result in a loss of significant anticipated lease revenue to us and adversely affect our revenue.. The bankruptcy or insolvency of an underlying property owner could result in the termination of our easement, lease assignment, or other real property interest.. Upon the bankruptcy of an underlying property owner, typically the property owner would have the right to assume or reject, at its option, any executory contracts. If a judge in a bankruptcy proceeding were to find that our real property interests are executory contracts, the underlying property owner would have the right to assume or reject such contracts in accordance with the bankruptcy rules. If a bankruptcy court finds that our real property interests are executory contracts and the underlying property owner rejects our contract, our remedies and claims for damages may be limited under bankruptcy law. Such events could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and distributable cash flows.. Substantially all of our tenant leases may be terminated upon 30 to 180 days' notice by our tenants, and unexpected lease cancellations could materially impact our cash flow from operations.. Most of our tenant leases permit our tenants to cancel the lease at any time with prior written notice. The termination provisions vary from lease to lease, but substantially all of our tenant leases require only 30 to 180 days' advance notification. Cancellations are determined by the tenants themselves in their sole discretion. For instance, both wireless infrastructure and billboard sites are independently assessed by tenants for their ability to provide coverage and/or visibility. This assessment is made prior to construction or installation of the asset and there is no guarantee such coverage will remain static in the future due to independent developments, technological developments, foliage growth or other physical changes in the landscape that are unforeseeable and out of our control. Such results could lead to site removal or relocation to a more suitable location, leading to a reduction in our revenue. Any cancellations will adversely affect our revenue and cash flow, and a significant number of cancellations could materially impact our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders.. 25. Table of Contents. Our tenants may be exposed to force majeure events and other unforeseen events for which tenant insurance may not provide adequate coverage. Additionally, local restrictions may prevent or inhibit re-building efforts, particularly with outdoor advertising.. The sites underlying our real property interests are subject to risks associated with natural disasters, such as ice and wind storms, fires, tornadoes, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes, as well as other unforeseen damage. Should such a disaster cause damage to one of our tenant's sites, certain of our tenant leases allow the tenant to either terminate the lease or withhold rent payments until the site is restored to its original condition. While our tenants generally maintain insurance coverage for natural disasters, they may not have adequate insurance to cover the associated costs of repair or reconstruction for a future major event. Further, in the event of any damage to our tenants' assets, federal, state and local regulations may restrict the ability to repair or rebuild damaged assets  -  especially billboards or other signs, which are subject to significant regulations. If our tenants are unwilling or unable to repair or rebuild due to damage, we may experience losses in revenue due to terminated tenant leases and/or lease payments that are withheld pursuant to the terms of the tenant lease while the site is repaired.. Our tenants may experience equipment failure, which could lead to the termination of our tenant leases.. Our tenants' assets are subject to a risk of equipment failure due to wear and tear, latent defect, design error or operator error, or early obsolescence. Additionally, substantially all of our tenant leases allow our tenants to terminate the lease upon 30 to 180 days' notice. If our tenants choose to terminate their leases with us following an equipment failure, it could have a material adverse effect on our assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows.. In the event infrastructure assets associated with certain of our real property interests are removed, replacement costs and governmental regulations may delay, restrict, prohibit, or substantially raise the cost of the installation of a similar infrastructure asset.. Upon the expiration or termination of a tenant's lease, most of our tenants have the right to remove their infrastructure assets associated with our real property interests, which are frequently subject to federal, state and local regulations, such as restrictive zoning. In the event that a tenant exercises its right or fulfills its obligation (as applicable) to remove its equipment, we would be unable to prevent such removal. There could be delays or significant costs associated with replacing the equipment and re-leasing that property, or replacement may be legally impossible. For example, if a legal nonconforming (\"grandfathered\") billboard is removed, zoning regulations do not allow a replacement billboard to be constructed. Such events could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and distributable cash flows.. Our tenants, as well as their sub-lessees, are subject to governmental regulations, which may restrict their ability to operate.. Our tenants, as well as their sub-lessees, may be subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations. For example, the outdoor advertising industry is subject to numerous restrictions, which has made it increasingly difficult to develop new outdoor advertising structures and sites. Changes in laws and regulations affecting outdoor advertising at any level of government, or increases in the enforcement of regulations could lead to the removal or modification of outdoor adverting structures and sites.. If our tenants are unable to obtain acceptable arrangements or compensation in circumstances in which their advertising structures and sites are subject to removal or modification, it could have an adverse effect on our tenants', and in turn our own, business, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, governmental regulation of advertising displays could limit our tenants' installation of new advertising displays, restrict advertising displays to governmentally controlled sites or permit the installation of advertising displays in a manner that benefits our tenants' competitors disproportionately, any of which could have an adverse effect on our tenants', and in turn our own, business, results of operations and cash flow.. Our other tenants, including those in the cellular tower and renewable power generation industries, are also subject to significant governmental regulations, which may impede or hamper their business operations or ability to grow. As legal requirements frequently change and are subject to interpretation and discretion, we may be unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. Any new law, rule or regulation could require additional expenditure to achieve or maintain compliance or could adversely impact our tenants' ability to generate and deliver energy.. Additionally, some of our tenants or their sub-lessees are required to maintain licenses, permits and governmental approvals for operation. Some of the licenses, permits and governmental approvals necessary to our tenants' operations may contain conditions and restrictions, or may have limited terms. If our tenants or their sub-lessees fail to satisfy the conditions or comply with the restrictions imposed by such licenses, permits and governmental approvals, or the restrictions imposed by any statutory or regulatory requirements, they may become subject to regulatory enforcement action and the operation of their assets could be adversely affected or be subject to fines, penalties or additional costs or revocation of regulatory approvals, permits or licenses. If this were to happen, the ability of these tenants or their sub-lessees to continue to operate under our tenant leases may be jeopardized, which could adversely affect our revenue and cash flow.. 26. Table of Contents. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers, and the loss, consolidation or financial instability of any of our limited number of customers may materially decrease revenue or reduce demand for our wireless infrastructure and network services.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 51% of our combined revenue was derived from T-Mobile, AT&T Mobility, Sprint, Crown Castle and Verizon (or their affiliates), which represented 12%, 11%, 10%, 9% and 9%, respectively, of our combined revenue. The loss of any one of our large customers as a result of consolidation, merger, bankruptcy, insolvency, network sharing, roaming, joint development, resale agreements by our customers or otherwise may result in (1) a material decrease in our revenue, (2) uncollectible account receivables, (3) an impairment of our deferred site rental receivables, wireless infrastructure assets, site rental contracts or customer relationships intangible assets, or (4) other adverse effects to our business. We cannot guarantee that contracts with our major customers will not be terminated or that these customers will renew their contracts with us. Additionally, our tenant leases with affiliates and subsidiaries of large, nationally-recognized companies may not provide for full recourse to the larger, more creditworthy parent entities affiliated with our lessees. In addition to our four largest customers in the U.S., we also derive a portion of our revenue and anticipated future growth from customers offering or contemplating offering emerging wireless services; such customers are smaller and have less financial resources than our Tier 1 tenants, have business models which may not be successful, or may require additional capital. Please read Note 17 to the Notes to the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements included elsewhere in this annual report.. Our real property interests currently have significant concentration in a small number of top Basic Trading Areas (\"BTAs\").. Real property interests in the top 10 BTAs currently account for approximately 51% of our quarterly rental revenue. The New York BTA and the Los Angeles BTA are our top BTAs and accounted for 16% and 14% of our quarterly rental revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017, respectively. No other single BTA accounted for more than 10% of our quarterly rental revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017. We are susceptible to adverse developments in the economy, weather conditions, competition, consumer preferences, demographics, or other factors in these major metropolitan areas. Due to our susceptibility to such adverse developments, there can be no assurance that the current geographic concentration of our business will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. If our tenant leases are not renewed with similar terms, rental rates or at all, our future revenue may be materially affected.. Approximately 20% of our tenant leases will be subject to extension over the next 12 months. Our tenants are under no obligation to extend their tenant leases. In addition, there is no assurance that current tenants will renew their current leases with similar terms or rental rates, or even at all. The extension, renewal, or replacement of existing leases depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the level of existing and new competition in our markets, the macroeconomic factors affecting lease economics for our current and potential customers, the balance of supply and demand, on a short-term, seasonal and long-term basis, in our markets, the extent to which customers in our markets are willing to contract on a long-term basis, and the effects of federal, state or local regulations on the contracting practices of our customers.. Unsuccessful negotiations could potentially reduce revenue generated from the assets and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. We may enter into additional credit agreements or mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or grant a security interest in all or substantially all of our assets without prior approval of our unitholders.. We may mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or grant a security interest in all or substantially all of our assets without prior approval of our unitholders. For example, our revolving credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets. If we were to decide at any time to incur debt and secure our obligations or indebtedness by all or substantially all of our assets, and if we were unable to satisfy such obligations or repay such indebtedness, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. The lenders could also sell all or substantially all of our assets under such foreclosure or other realization upon those encumbrances without prior approval of our unitholders, which would adversely affect the price of our common units. In addition, we may enter into additional credit agreement of other debt arrangements in the future that may be secured by all or substantially all of our assets.. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of our units.. We will be dependent upon the earnings and cash flow generated by our operations in order to meet any debt service obligations and to allow us to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. 27. Table of Contents. The provisions of our revolving credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default which would enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our other debt instruments, if any, may be triggered, and our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Please read \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources\" for additional information about our revolving credit facility.. Certain of our real property interests are subordinated to senior debt such as mortgages, which, if we fail to obtain a non-disturbance agreement, could foreclose on our real property interests if the underlying property owner defaults on the mortgage.. While we make an effort to obtain non-disturbance agreements on the real property interests we acquire, sometimes we are unable to do so. Under certain circumstances and in the absence of a non-disturbance agreement, if the underlying property owner fails to comply with or make payments under debt arrangements senior to us, an event of default may result, which would allow the creditors to foreclose on any of our real property interests associated with that site. Any such default or foreclosure could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. We expect to incur a significant amount of debt to finance our portfolio which may subject us to an increased risk of loss or adversely affect the return on our investments.. We expect to incur a significant amount of debt to finance our operations. We expect to finance our acquisitions through the issuance of debt, borrowing under credit facilities, and other arrangements. We anticipate that the leverage we employ will vary depending on our ability to sell our debt, obtain credit facilities, the loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios of our assets, the yield on our assets, the targeted leveraged return we expect from our portfolio and our ability to meet ongoing covenants related to our asset mix and financial performance. Substantially all of our assets are currently pledged as collateral under our revolving credit facility. Our results of operations and distributable cash flow may be adversely affected to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase. In addition to our revolving credit facility, we may enter into additional credit agreements or other debt arrangements in the future.. If we are unable to protect our rights to our real property interests, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. Our real property interests consist primarily of rights under leases and long-term or perpetual easements. A loss of these interests at a particular site may interfere with our ability to generate revenue. For various reasons, we may not always have the ability to access, analyze and verify all information regarding zoning and other issues prior to completing an acquisition of real property interests, which can affect our rights to access and lease a site. Our inability to protect our rights to our real property interests may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. The value of our real property interests are affected by a number of factors, including changes in the general economic climate, local conditions (such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, our real property interest), competition based on rental rates, attractiveness and location of the properties, physical condition of the properties, financial condition of buyers and sellers of properties, and changes in operating costs. If our real property interests do not generate sufficient revenue to meet their operating expenses, including debt service, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to unitholders will be adversely affected. Real estate values are also affected by such factors as government regulations, interest rate levels, the availability of financing, participation by other investors in the financial markets and potential liability under changing laws. Under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property without the owner's consent, sometimes for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. In addition, the breach of our easement or lease assignment by an underlying property owner or a tenant could interfere with our operations. Any of these factors could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or distributable cash flow.. We may be subject to unanticipated liabilities as a result of our real property interests.. We own real property interests and are parties to contracts with unrelated parties such as tenants. We may be involved in disputes and other matters with property owners, tenants, their respective employees and agents, and other unrelated parties, such as tort claims related to hazardous conditions, foreclosure actions and access disputes. We cannot assure you that we will not become subject to material litigation or other liabilities. If these liabilities are not adequately covered by insurance, they could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. 28. Table of Contents. Our real property interests generally do not make us contractually responsible for the payment of real property taxes. If the responsible party fails to pay real property taxes, the resulting tax lien could put our real property interest in jeopardy.. Substantially all of our real property interests are subject to triple net or effectively triple net lease arrangements under which we are not responsible for paying real property taxes. If the property owner or tenant fails to pay real property taxes, any lien resulting from such unpaid taxes would be senior to our real property interest in the applicable site. Failure to pay such real property taxes could result in our real property interest being impaired or extinguished, or we may be forced to incur costs and pay the real property tax liability to avoid impairment of our assets.. Our tenant leases generally make our tenants contractually responsible for payment of taxes, maintenance, insurance and other similar expenditures associated with our tenants' infrastructure assets. If our tenants fail to pay these expenses as required, it could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. As part of our triple net and effectively triple net lease arrangements, our tenant lease agreements typically make our tenants contractually responsible for payment of taxes, maintenance, insurance and other similar expenditures associated with our tenants' infrastructure assets. If our tenants fail to pay these expenses as required, it could result in a diminution in the value of the infrastructure asset associated with our real property interest and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. If radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets or equipment on wireless infrastructure are demonstrated to cause negative health effects, potential future claims could adversely affect our tenants' operations, costs or revenue.. The potential connection between radio frequency emissions and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years, and numerous health-related lawsuits have been filed against wireless carriers and wireless device manufacturers. We cannot guarantee that claims relating to radio frequency emissions will not arise in the future or that the results of such studies will not be adverse to us or our tenants.. Public perception of possible health risks associated with wireless communication may slow or diminish the growth of wireless carriers, which may in turn impact our revenue. In particular, negative public perception of, and regulations regarding, these perceived health risks may slow or diminish the market acceptance of wireless communication services and increase opposition to the development and expansion of wireless antenna sites. If a scientific study or court decision resulted in a finding that radio frequency emissions posed health risks to consumers, it could negatively impact the market for wireless services, as well as our wireless carrier tenants, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and distributable cash flow.. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units.. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"GAAP\"), but our internal accounting controls may not currently meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as Section 404. For example, Section 404 will require us, among other things to annually review and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Any failure to develop, implement or maintain effective internal controls or to improve our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm's, conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Ineffective internal controls will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units.. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain disclosure requirements that apply to other public companies.. In April 2012, President Obama signed into law the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or \"JOBS Act.\" For as long as we remain an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, although we will lose that status sooner if we have more than $1.0 billion of revenue in a fiscal year, have more than $700.0 million in market value of our limited partner interests held by non-affiliates, or issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period.. 29. Table of Contents. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected to \"opt out\" of this exemption and, therefore, are subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. To the extent that we rely on any of the exemptions available to emerging growth companies, you will receive less information about our executive compensation and internal control over financial reporting than issuers that are not emerging growth companies. If some investors find our common units to be less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common units and our trading price may be more volatile.. We may incur asset impairment charges, which could result in a significant reduction to our earnings.. We review our assets annually to determine if any are impaired, or more frequently in the event of circumstances indicating potential impairment. These circumstances could include a decline in our actual or expected future cash flow or income, a significant adverse change in the business climate, a decline in market capitalization, or slower growth rates in our industry, among others. If we determine that an asset is impaired, we may be required to record a non-cash impairment charge which would reduce our earnings and negatively impact our results of operations.. Terrorist or cyber-attacks and threats, or escalation of military activity in response to these attacks, could have a material adverse effect.. Terrorist attacks and threats, cyber-attacks, or escalation of military activity in response to these attacks, may have significant effects on general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Strategic targets, such as communication-related assets and power generation assets, may be at greater risk of future terrorist or cyber-attacks than other targets in the United States. We do not maintain specialized insurance for possible liability or loss resulting from a cyber-attack on our assets that may shut down all or part of our business. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. While our agreements with our lessees, property owners and other surface owners generally include environmental representations, warranties, and indemnities to minimize the extent to which we may be financially responsible for liabilities arising under environmental laws, unforeseen liabilities under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. Laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment are applicable to our business and operations, and also to the businesses and operations of our lessees, property owners and other surface owners or operators. Federal, state and local government agencies issue regulations that often require difficult and costly compliance measures that carry substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties and that may result in injunctive obligations for non-compliance. These laws and regulations often require permits before operations commence, restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment, require remediation of released substances, and limit or prohibit construction or operations on certain lands (e.g. wetlands). We do not conduct any operations on our properties, but we or our tenants may maintain small quantities of materials that, if released, would be subject to certain environmental laws. Similarly, our property owners, lessees and other surface interest owners may have liability or responsibility under these laws which could have an indirect impact on our business. These laws include but are not limited to the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (\"RCRA\"), and comparable state statutes and regulations promulgated thereunder (which impose requirements on the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (\"CERCLA\"), and analogous state laws (which generally impose liability, without regard to fault or legality of the original conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of hazardous substances into the environment, including the current and former owners or operators of a site. It is not uncommon for neighboring property owners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. Therefore, governmental agencies or third parties may seek to hold us, our lessees, property owners and other surface interest owners responsible under CERCLA and comparable state statutes for all or part of the costs to cleanup sites at which hazardous substances have been released. Our agreements with our lessees, counterparties and other surface owners generally include environmental representations, warranties, and indemnities to minimize the extent to which we may be financially responsible for liabilities arising under these laws.. 30. Table of Contents. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. Our general partner and its affiliates, including Landmark, have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to our detriment and that of our unitholders. Additionally, we have no control over the business decisions and operations of Landmark, and Landmark is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us.. As of December 31, 2017, Landmark and affiliates own a 14% limited partner interest in us and own and control our general partner through a non-economic interest in us. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is in the best interests of our partnership and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner also have a duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is in the best interests of its owner, Landmark. Conflicts of interest may arise between Landmark and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, the general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including Landmark, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. •  neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Landmark to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, which could involve decisions by Landmark to pursue and grow particular markets, or undertake acquisition opportunities for itself;. •  Landmark may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests;. •  our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limiting our general partner's liabilities and restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty;. •  except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval;. •  our general partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect our distributable cash flow;. •  our general partner will determine the amount and timing of many of our cash expenditures and whether a cash expenditure is classified as an expansion capital expenditure, which would not reduce operating surplus, or a maintenance capital expenditure, which would reduce our operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of available cash from operating surplus that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner, the amount of adjusted operating surplus generated in any given period and the ability of the subordinated units to convert into common units;. •  our general partner will determine which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us;. •  our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate expiration of the subordination period;. •  our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $10.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our general partner in respect of the incentive distribution rights;. •  our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;. •  our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations;. •  our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units;. •  our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including our commercial agreements with Landmark;. •  our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and. •  our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner (which we refer to as our \"conflicts committee\"), or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. 31. Table of Contents. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including Landmark, and their respective executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Landmark will continue to manage the operation of the Remaining Landmark Funds (including any similar investment funds formed in the future) and will be under no obligation to provide acquisition opportunities to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. Please read Item 13., \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  -  Agreements Governing the Transactions  -  Omnibus Agreement\" and \"Conflicts of Interest.\". Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement permits our general partner to limit its liability, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders.. Our management has limited experience in managing a U.S. publicly traded partnership or REIT.. Our executive management team and internal accounting staff have limited experience in managing our business and reporting as a U.S. publicly traded partnership or REIT. As a result, we may not be able to anticipate or respond to material changes or other events in our business as effectively as if our executive management team and accounting staff had such experience. Furthermore, growth projects may place significant strain on our management resources, thereby limiting our ability to execute our day-to-day business activities.. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we expect to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance our growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we will distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights, and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such additional units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce the amount of cash that we have available to distribute to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties.. Delaware law provides that Delaware limited partnerships may, in their partnership agreements, expand, restrict or eliminate the fiduciary duties otherwise owed by the general partner to limited partners and the partnership, provided that partnership agreements may not eliminate the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing. This implied covenant is a judicial doctrine utilized by Delaware courts in connection with interpreting ambiguities in partnership agreements and other contracts and does not form the basis of any separate or independent fiduciary duty in addition to the express contractual duties set forth in our partnership agreement. Under the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the parties where the language in the partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action.. As permitted by Delaware law, our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Please read \"Conflicts of Interest\" and \"Duties of the General Partner.\". 32. Table of Contents. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement:. •  provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the determination or the decision to take or decline to take such action was in the best interests of our partnership, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. •  provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith;. •  provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. •  provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is approved in accordance with, or otherwise meets the standards set forth in, our partnership agreement.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, our partnership agreement provides that any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith, and that our conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner are entitled to a presumption that they acted in good faith. In any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Please read \"Conflicts of Interest.\". Cost reimbursements, which are determined in our general partner's sole discretion, and fees due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution to you.. Under our partnership agreement, we are required to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all costs and expenses that they incur on our behalf for managing and controlling our business and operations. Except to the extent specified under our omnibus agreement, our general partner determines the amount of these expenses. Under the omnibus agreement that we entered into concurrently with the closing of our IPO, we agreed to reimburse Landmark for expenses related to certain general and administrative services Landmark provides to us in support of our business, subject to a quarterly cap equal to the greater of $162,500 and 3% of our revenue during the preceding calendar quarter. This cap on expenses will last until the earlier to occur of: (i) the date on which our revenue for the immediately preceding four consecutive fiscal quarters exceeded $80.0 million and (ii) November 19, 2019. Some of the costs and expenses for which we are required to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates are not subject to any caps or other limits. Payments to our general partner and its affiliates will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Unitholders have very limited voting rights and, even if they are dissatisfied, they have limited ability to remove our general partner.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. For example, unlike holders of stock in a public corporation, unitholders do not have \"say-on-pay\" advisory voting rights. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner and will have no right to elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by the member of our general partner, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Landmark. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3 % of all outstanding common units and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As of December 31, 2017, Landmark and its affiliates own collectively 100% of our subordinated units and 185,354 common units, which represents a 14% limited partner interest in us. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and common units and subordinated units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units, and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests.. 33. Table of Contents. \"Cause\" is narrowly defined under our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our general partner because of the unitholders' dissatisfaction with our general partner's performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period.. Furthermore, unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of Landmark to transfer its membership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices.. The incentive distribution rights of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party, it will have less incentive to grow our partnership and increase distributions. A transfer of incentive distribution rights by our general partner could reduce the likelihood of Landmark selling or contributing additional assets to us, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base.. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests.. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of general partner interests or limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders, and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such general partner interests or limited partner interests. Further, there are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue equity securities that rank equal or senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. •  our unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. •  the amount of cash we have available to distribute on each unit may decrease;. •  because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase;. •  the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. •  the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. •  the market price of our common units may decline.. The issuance by us of additional general partner interests may have the following effects, among others, if such general partner interests are issued to a person who is not an affiliate of Landmark:. •  management of our business may no longer reside solely with our current general partner; and. •  affiliates of the newly admitted general partner may compete with us, and neither that general partner nor such affiliates will have any obligation to present business opportunities to us.. Landmark and its affiliates may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. As of December 31, 2017, Landmark and its affiliates hold 185,354 common units and 3,135,109 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period and may convert earlier under certain circumstances. Additionally, we have agreed to provide Landmark and its affiliates with certain registration rights under applicable securities laws. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop.. 34. Table of Contents. Other than the requirement in our partnership agreement to distribute all of our available cash each quarter, we have no legal obligation to make quarterly cash distributions, and our general partner has considerable discretion to establish cash reserves that would reduce the amount of available cash we distribute to unitholders.. Generally, our available cash is comprised of cash on hand at the end of a quarter plus cash-on-hand resulting from any working capital borrowings made after the end of the quarter less cash reserves established by our general partner. Our partnership agreement permits our general partner to establish cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business (including reserves for our future capital expenditures and anticipated future debt service requirements), to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to unitholders. As a result, even when there is no change in the amount of distributable cash flow that we generate, our general partner has considerable discretion to establish cash reserves, which would result in a reduction the amount of available cash we distribute to unitholders. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders at our minimum quarterly distribution rate or at any other rate, and we have no legal obligation to do so, except to the extent we have available cash as defined in our partnership agreement.. Landmark and the Remaining Landmark Funds may compete with us, and Landmark, as owner of our general partner, will decide when, if, and how we complete acquisitions.. Neither our partnership agreement nor our omnibus agreement prohibit Landmark or any other affiliates of our general partner, including the Remaining Landmark Funds, from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including Landmark. Any such entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us does not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Consequently, Landmark and other affiliates of our general partner may acquire additional assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, competition from Landmark and other affiliates of our general partner could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our then-outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. After the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units by us (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units), our general partner and its affiliates (including Landmark) will own approximately 14% of our outstanding common units.. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that (i) we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or (ii) your right to take certain actions under our partnership agreement constitute \"control\" of our business. For a discussion of the implications of the limitations of liability on a unitholder, please read \"Our Partnership Agreement  -  Limited Liability.\". Unitholders may have to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act or \"DRULPA,\" we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the transferee at the time of the transfer and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. 35. Table of Contents. Our general partner, or any transferee holding incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of our conflicts committee or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units.. Our general partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received distributions on its incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which it is entitled (50%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution.. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will be equal to that number of common units that would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in such two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. This risk could be elevated if the incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Additionally, our general partner has the right to transfer all or any portion of the incentive distribution rights at any time, and such transferee shall have the same rights as the general partner relative to resetting target distributions if our general partner concurs that the tests for resetting target distributions have been fulfilled. Please read Item 5., \"Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities -  Right to Reset Incentive Distribution Levels.\". NASDAQ does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Our common units are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. NASDAQ listing rules do not require a listed limited partnership like us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. We are, however, required to have an audit committee of at least three members, all of whom are required to meet the independence and experience standards established by NASDAQ and the Exchange Act. On December 25, 2017, Ron Readmond, a member of our general partner's board of directors and our audit committee, passed away, resulting in non-compliance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5605(c)(2), which requires that we maintain an audit committee composed of at least three independent directors. Our general partner's board of directors intends to identify candidates to replace Mr. Readmond prior to the expiration of the automatic cure period. Please read Item 10., \"Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  -  Management of Landmark Infrastructure Partners LP.\". Our partnership agreement includes exclusive forum, venue and jurisdiction provisions and a waiver of the right to a jury trial. By purchasing a common unit, a limited partner is irrevocably consenting to these provisions regarding claims, suits, actions or proceedings, submitting to the exclusive jurisdiction of Delaware courts and waiving a right to a jury trial. Our partnership agreement also provides that any unitholder bringing an unsuccessful action will be obligated to reimburse us for any costs we have incurred in connection with such unsuccessful action.. Our partnership agreement is governed by Delaware law. Our partnership agreement includes exclusive forum, venue and jurisdiction provisions designating Delaware courts as the exclusive venue for most claims, suits, actions and proceedings involving us or our officers, directors and employees. In addition, if any person brings any of the aforementioned claims, suits, actions or proceedings and such person does not obtain a judgment on the merits that substantially achieves, in substance and amount, the full remedy sought, then such person shall be obligated to reimburse us and our affiliates for all fees, costs and expenses of every kind and description, including but not limited to all reasonable attorneys' fees and other litigation expenses, that the parties may incur in connection with such claim, suit, action or proceeding. Our partnership agreement also includes an irrevocable waiver of the right to trial by jury in all such claims, suits, actions and proceedings. By purchasing a common unit, a limited partner is irrevocably consenting to these limitations and provisions regarding claims, suits, actions or proceedings and submitting to the exclusive jurisdiction of Delaware courts. If a dispute were to arise between a limited partner and us or our officers, directors or employees, the limited partner may be required to pursue its legal remedies in Delaware which may be an inconvenient or distant location and which is considered to be a more corporate-friendly environment. These provisions may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against us and our general partner's directors and officers.. 36. Table of Contents. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded partnership, including the cost of additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls in order to satisfy our public company reporting requirements.. We have limited history operating as a publicly traded partnership. As a publicly traded partnership, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ have mandated changes in the corporate governance practices of publicly traded companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make our activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a publicly traded partnership, we are required to have at least three independent directors, create an audit committee and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, including the preparation of reports on internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our publicly traded partnership reporting requirements. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for our general partner to obtain director and officer liability insurance and possibly to result in our general partner having to accept reduced policy limits and coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for our general partner to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers.. Any failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business and unit price. In addition, we may need to hire additional compliance, accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical knowledge, and we may not be able to do so in a timely fashion. As a result, we may need to rely on outside consultants to provide these services for us until qualified personnel are hired. These obligations will increase our operating expenses and could divert our management's attention from our operations.. We will incur increased costs as a result of managing a REIT.. On July 31, 2017, we completed our previously announced reorganization (the \"Reorganization\") and transferred substantially all of our assets to the REIT Subsidiary, which we intend will qualify as a REIT, under the Code. In order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, the REIT Subsidiary must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the ownership of its equity interests, the composition of its assets and the sources of its income. Satisfying these requirements involves monitoring various factual matters, applying highly technical and complex provisions of the Code and meeting ongoing reporting obligations, which will increase our operating expenses and could divert our management's attention from our operations.. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.. We may pursue growth opportunities in international markets where the U.S. dollar is not the denominated currency. The ownership of investments located outside of the United States subjects us to risk from fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. A significant change in the value of currencies in countries where we have a significant investment may have a materially adverse effect on our financial position, debt covenant ratios, results of operations and cash flow.. We may attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes through the use of derivative contracts or other methods. However, no amount of hedging activity can fully insulate us from the risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and the failure to hedge effectively against foreign currency exchange rate risk, if we choose to engage in such activities, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Preferred Units. The market price of our Preferred Units may be adversely affected by the future issuance and sale of additional Preferred Units, including pursuant to the sales agreement, or by our announcement that such issuances and sales may occur.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or sales of our Preferred Units, including those made pursuant to the sales agreement with any of our sales agents or in connection with future acquisitions or capital raising activities, or the effect, if any, that such issuances or sales may have on the market price of our Preferred Units. In addition, the sales agents will not engage in any transactions that stabilize the price of our Preferred Units. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of Preferred Units, including issuances and sales pursuant to the sales agreement, or announcement that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our Preferred Units.. 37. Table of Contents. The Preferred Units represent perpetual equity interests in us, and investors should not expect us to redeem the Preferred Units on the date the Preferred Units become redeemable by us or on any particular date afterwards.. The Preferred Units represent perpetual equity interests in us, and they have no maturity or mandatory redemption date and are not redeemable at the option of investors under any circumstances. As a result, unlike our indebtedness, the Preferred Units will not give rise to a claim for payment of a principal amount at a particular date. Instead, the Preferred Units may be redeemed by us at our option in the event of a Change of Control or at any time on or after April 4, 2021 for the Series A Preferred Units and on August 8, 2021 for the Series B Preferred Units, in whole or in part, out of funds legally available for such redemption, at a redemption price of $25.00 per unit plus an amount equal to all accumulated and unpaid distributions thereon to the date of redemption, whether or not declared. Any decision we may make at any time to redeem the Preferred Units will depend upon, among other things, our evaluation of our capital position and general market conditions at that time.. As a result, holders of the Preferred Units may be required to bear the financial risks of an investment in the Preferred Units for an indefinite period of time. The Series A Preferred Units rank in parity to the Series B Preferred Units with respect to distributions and distributions upon a liquidation event. In addition, the Preferred Units will rank junior to all our current and future indebtedness (including indebtedness outstanding under our revolving credit facility) and other liabilities. The Preferred Units will also rank junior to any other Senior Securities we may issue in the future with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us.. The Preferred Units have not been rated.. We have not sought to obtain a rating for the Preferred Units, and the Preferred Units may never be rated. It is possible, however, that one or more rating agencies might independently determine to assign a rating to the Preferred Units or that we may elect to obtain a rating of the Preferred Units in the future. In addition, we may elect to issue other securities for which we may seek to obtain a rating. If any ratings are assigned to the Preferred Units in the future or if we issue other securities with a rating, such ratings, if they are lower than market expectations or are subsequently lowered or withdrawn, could adversely affect the market for or the market value of the Preferred Units. Ratings only reflect the views of the issuing rating agency or agencies and such ratings could at any time be revised downward or withdrawn entirely at the discretion of the issuing rating agency. A rating is not a recommendation to purchase, sell or hold any particular security, including the Preferred Units. Ratings do not reflect market prices or suitability of a security for a particular investor and any future rating of the Preferred Units may not reflect all risks related to us and our business, or the structure or market value of the Preferred Units.. We distribute all of our available cash to our common unitholders and are not required to accumulate cash for the purpose of meeting our future obligations to holders of the Preferred Units, which may limit the cash available to make distributions on the Preferred Units.. Our Partnership Agreement requires us to distribute all of our \"available cash\" each quarter to our common unitholders. \"Available cash\" is defined in our Partnership Agreement, and it generally means, for each fiscal quarter, all cash and cash equivalents on the date of determination of available cash for that quarter, less the amount of any cash reserves established by our general partner to:. •  provide for the proper conduct of our business;. •  comply with applicable law, the terms of any of our debt instruments or other agreements;. •  provide funds to make payments on the Series A Preferred Units or the Series B Preferred Units; or. •  provide funds for distributions to our unitholders and to our general partner for any one or more of the next four quarters.. As a result, we do not expect to accumulate significant amounts of cash. Depending on the timing and amount of our cash distributions, these distributions could significantly reduce the cash available to us in subsequent periods to make payments on the Preferred Units.. The Preferred Units are subordinated to our existing and future debt obligations, and your interests could be diluted by the issuance of additional units, including additional Preferred Units, and by other transactions.. The Preferred Units are subordinated to all of our existing and future indebtedness (including indebtedness outstanding under our revolving credit facility). As of December 31, 2017, our total debt was approximately $491.2 million, and we had the ability to borrow an additional $86 million under our revolving credit facility, subject to certain limitations. We may incur additional debt under our revolving credit facility or future debt agreements. The payment of principal and interest on our debt reduces cash available for distribution to us and on our units, including the Preferred Units.. The issuance of additional units on a parity with or senior to the Preferred Units would dilute the interests of the holders of the Preferred Units, and any issuance of Parity Securities or Senior Securities or additional indebtedness could affect our ability to pay distributions on, redeem or pay the liquidation preference on the Preferred Units. Only the Change of Control conversion right relating to the Preferred Units protects the holders of the Preferred Units in the event of a highly leveraged or other transaction, including a merger or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all our assets or business, which might adversely affect the holders of the Preferred Units.. 38. Table of Contents. As a holder of Preferred Units you have extremely limited voting rights.. Your voting rights as a holder of Preferred Units is extremely limited. Our common units are the only class of our partnership interests carrying full voting rights. Holders of the Preferred Units generally have no voting rights.. The lack of a fixed redemption date for the Preferred Units will increase your reliance on the secondary market for liquidity purposes.. Because the Preferred Units have no stated maturity date, investors seeking liquidity will be limited to selling their Preferred Units in the secondary market absent redemption by us. We have listed the Preferred Units on NASDAQ, but an active trading market on the NASDAQ for the Series A and Series B Preferred Units may not develop or, even if it develops, may not last, in which case the trading price of the Preferred Units could be adversely affected and your ability to transfer your Preferred Units will be limited. If an active trading market does develop on the NASDAQ, the Preferred Units may trade at prices lower than the offering price. The trading price of the Preferred Units depends on many factors, including:. •  prevailing interest rates;. •  the market for similar securities;. •  general economic and financial market conditions;. •  our issuance of debt or other preferred equity securities; and. •  our financial condition and results of operations.. Market interest rates may adversely affect the value of the Preferred Units.. One of the factors that will influence the price of the Preferred Units will be the distribution yield on the Preferred Units (as a percentage of the price of the Preferred Units) relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, may lead prospective purchasers of the Preferred Units to expect a higher distribution yield, and higher interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Accordingly, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of the Preferred Units to decrease.. Change of control conversion rights may make it more difficult for a party to acquire us or discourage a party from acquiring us.. The change of control conversion feature of the Preferred Units may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing certain of our change of control transactions under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common units and Preferred Units with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price of such equity securities or that unitholders may otherwise believe is in their best interests.. Holders of Preferred Units may have liability to repay distributions.. Under certain circumstances, holders of the Preferred Units may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of Preferred Units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the Partnership that are known to such purchaser of units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our Partnership Agreement.. Tax Risks. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, or if we were otherwise subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation, then our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. 39. Table of Contents. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business, a change in current law or our failure to satisfy the requirements under the Code could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a flat rate of 21% (and a maximum of 35% for our tax years beginning prior to January 1, 2018), and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our distributable cash flow would be substantially reduced and we might need to raise funds to pay such corporate level tax. In addition, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation, there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The tax treatment of REITs, publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. As described above, we completed the Reorganization in 2017 and transferred substantially all of our assets to the REIT Subsidiary. Distributions from the REIT Subsidiary will generally be publicly traded partnership qualifying income to us and taxable to our unitholders at ordinary income rates. In October 2016, we also formed Landmark Infrastructure REIT LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, that is now a subsidiary of the REIT Subsidiary. In the future, we may own and operate other assets in the REIT Subsidiary.. The present federal income tax treatment of REITs, publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of Congress and the President have periodically considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships, including the elimination of partnership tax treatment for publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to satisfy the requirements of the exception pursuant to which we are treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or for the REIT Subsidiary to qualify as a REIT. We are unable to predict whether any such changes will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us or the REIT Subsidiary, and any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation (the \"2017 Tax Legislation\") has significantly changed certain aspects of the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. businesses and their owners, including publicly traded partnerships, REITs and their equity holders.  Changes made by the 2017 Tax Legislation that could affect us, the REIT Subsidiary, and our unitholders include:. •  temporarily reducing individual U.S. federal income tax rates on ordinary income; the highest individual U.S. federal income tax rate has been reduced from 39.6% to 37% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026;. •  permanently eliminating the progressive corporate tax rate structure, which previously imposed a maximum corporate tax rate of 35%, and replacing it with a flat corporate tax rate of 21%;. •  temporarily precluding individuals, as well as certain estates and trusts, from claiming any miscellaneous itemized deductions for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026;. •  permitting a deduction for certain pass-through business income, including dividends from the REIT Subsidiary received by us that are not designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income, which will allow individual unitholders to deduct up to 20% of such amounts for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026;. •  limiting a REIT's deduction for net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 to 80% of its REIT taxable income (prior to the application of the dividends paid deduction);. •  generally limiting the deduction for net business interest expense in excess of 30% of a business's \"adjusted taxable income,\" except for taxpayers (including the REIT Subsidiary) that engage in certain real estate businesses and elect out of this rule (provided that such electing taxpayers must use an alternative depreciation system with longer depreciation periods); and. •  eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax.. 40. Table of Contents. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the U.S. Treasury Department and IRS, any of which could lessen or increase the impact of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect us in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. We continue to work with our tax advisors and auditors to determine the full impact that the recent tax legislation as a whole will have on us.. Our unitholders' share of our income is taxable to them for federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Because a unitholder is treated as a partner to whom we allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income is taxable to it, which may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on its share of our taxable income even if it receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our distributable cash flow to our unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We intend to furnish to each unitholder, within 90 days after the close of each calendar year, specific tax information, including a Schedule K-1, which describes his share of our income, gain, loss and deduction for our preceding taxable year. In preparing this information we will take various accounting and reporting positions. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS's positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments directly from us. Generally, we expect to elect to have our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, but there can be no assurance that such election will be effective in all circumstances. If we are unable to have our unitholders take such audit adjustments into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, our current unitholders may bear the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced. These rules are not applicable to us for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. A unitholder's amount realized on his sale of common units will generally equal the amount of cash (or the fair market value of any property) he receives plus his allocable share of our nonrecourse liabilities. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units a unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if he sells such common units at a price greater than his tax basis in those common units, even if the price received is less than his original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of a unitholder's common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells common units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, distributions to non-U.S. persons are reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons are required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income.. 41. Table of Contents. We may be required to deduct and withhold amounts from distributions to foreign unitholders related to withholding tax obligations arising from the sale or disposition of our units by foreign unitholders.. Upon the sale, exchange or other disposition of a unit by a foreign unitholder, the transferee is generally required to withhold 10% of the amount realized on such sale, exchange or other disposition if any portion of the gain on such sale, exchange or other disposition would be treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. If the transferee fails to satisfy this withholding requirement, we will be required to deduct and withhold such amount (plus interest) from future distributions to the transferee. Because the \"amount realized\" would include a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, 10% of the amount realized could exceed the total cash purchase price for such disposed units. Due to this fact, our inability to match transferors and transferees of units and other uncertainty surrounding the application of these withholding rules, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the IRS have currently suspended these rules for transfers of certain publicly traded partnership interests, including transfers of our units, until regulations or other guidance has been issued. It is unclear when such regulations or other guidance will be issued.. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge aspects of our proration method, and, if successful, we would be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The U.S. Department of Treasury and the IRS have issued Treasury regulations that permit publicly traded partnerships to use a monthly simplifying convention that is similar to ours, but they do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge this method, we could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, he may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income.. U.S. Tax Risks Relating to Our REIT Subsidiary. Ownership limitations and transfer restrictions may restrict or prevent you from engaging in certain transfers of our common units, preferred units, or other partnership interests.. As described above, we completed the Reorganization in 2017 and transferred substantially all of our assets to the REIT Subsidiary. In connection with the Reorganization, we amended our partnership agreement to adopt ownership limitations that may restrict or prevent you from engaging in certain transfers of our common units, preferred units, subordinated units or other partnership interests. If you transfer partnership interests in a manner that would violate the ownership limit, or prevent the REIT Subsidiary from qualifying as a REIT under the Code, then those partnership interests instead will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and will be either redeemed by us or sold to a person whose ownership of the partnership interests will not violate the ownership limit. If this transfer to a trust fails to prevent such a violation or fails to permit the REIT Subsidiary's qualification as a REIT, then the initial intended transfer will be null and void from the outset. The intended transferee of those partnership interests will be deemed never to have owned the partnership interests. Anyone who acquires common units, preferred units, or other partnership interests in violation of the ownership limit or the other restrictions on transfer bears the risk of suffering a financial loss when the common units, preferred units, or other partnership interests are redeemed or sold if the market price of our common units, preferred units, or other partnership interests falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale.. 42. Table of Contents. Ownership limitations could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover or other transaction in which unitholders might receive a premium for their partnership interests over the then prevailing market price or which unitholders might believe to be otherwise in their best interest.. The recently adopted ownership limitations may restrict the ability of future investors from consummating a purchase of the Partnership's outstanding partnership interests and thereby could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover or other transaction in which unitholders might receive a premium for their partnership interests over the then prevailing market price or which unitholders might believe to be otherwise in their best interest. Certain potential investors or buyers of Partnership equity may not be able to meet the ownership limitations and would therefore be unable to make an investment in the Partnership. This could have the effect of reducing the premium for which unitholders might otherwise receive in a takeover or other fundamental transaction of the Partnership.. Failure of the REIT Subsidiary to qualify, or maintain its qualification, as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our common units, preferred units, and other partnership interests.. The REIT Subsidiary intends to elect to be taxed as a REIT commencing with its taxable year ending December 31, 2017. We believe that the REIT Subsidiary has been organized in conformity with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT, and that its operations will enable it to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or an opinion of counsel, that the REIT Subsidiary qualifies as a REIT, and we cannot assure you that it will qualify. If the REIT Subsidiary fails to qualify as a REIT, the funds available for distribution to the Partnership will be substantially reduced because:. •  the REIT Subsidiary would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to the Partnership in computing its taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates;. •  the REIT Subsidiary could be subject to increased state, local and foreign taxes; and. •  unless the REIT Subsidiary were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, it could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which it was disqualified.. As substantially all of our operations are currently conducted by the REIT Subsidiary, any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and could significantly reduce cash available for, among other things, the REIT Subsidiary's operations and distributions to the Partnership. As a result of these factors, the REIT Subsidiary's failure to maintain its qualification as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business, make distributions to our unitholders and raise capital, and could materially and adversely affect the value of our common units, preferred units, and other partnership interests.. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations.. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to maintain the REIT Subsidiary's qualification as a REIT. In order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, the REIT Subsidiary must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the ownership of its equity interests and requirements regarding the composition of its assets and the sources of its income. If the REIT Subsidiary is not able to maintain compliance with the various REIT qualification requirements, the REIT Subsidiary, among other things, could lose its REIT status.. The REIT Subsidiary's disposition of its assets may jeopardize its qualification as a REIT, or create additional tax liability for the REIT Subsidiary.. To qualify as a REIT, among other things, the REIT Subsidiary must comply with requirements regarding its ownership, the composition of its assets and the sources of its income. If the REIT Subsidiary is compelled to dispose of its investments, for example to repay obligations to its lenders, including those under the Partnership's Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, it may be unable to comply with these requirements, jeopardizing its qualification as a REIT. In addition, the REIT Subsidiary may be subject to a 100% penalty tax on any gain resulting from its sale of assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory. The possibility of this tax may prevent the REIT Subsidiary from selling its assets when it would like to do so.. 43. Table of Contents. In addition, to qualify as a REIT, the REIT Subsidiary generally must distribute to its owners at least 90% of its net taxable income each year (excluding any net capital gains), and it will be subject to regular corporate income tax to the extent that it distributes less than 100% of its net taxable income each year (including any net capital gains). In addition, it will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions it pays in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of its ordinary income, 95% of its net capital gains, and 100% of its undistributed income from prior years. To maintain its REIT status and avoid the payment of federal income and excise taxes, the REIT Subsidiary may need to borrow funds to meet the REIT distribution requirements, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes. The REIT Subsidiary's access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of factors, including the market's perception of its business and prospects, its current debt levels, and its current and potential future earnings. We cannot assure you that the REIT Subsidiary will have access to such capital on favorable terms at the desired times, or at all, which may cause it to curtail its investment activities and/or to dispose of assets at inopportune times, and could adversely affect its and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the value of our common units, preferred units, and other partnership interests. In addition, the REIT Subsidiary may make use of \"consent dividends\" to meet the REIT distribution requirements, which would result in dividend income to the Partnership for federal income tax purposes, even though we would not receive a related cash distribution. Any such consent dividends could create phantom income (i.e., income without commensurate cash) for us and for our common unitholders.. Even if the REIT Subsidiary qualifies as a REIT, it may be subject to tax.. Even if the REIT Subsidiary maintains its qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the REIT Subsidiary may be subject to federal, state, local and foreign income, property and excise taxes on its income or property and, in certain cases, a 100% penalty tax, in the event it sells property as a dealer. Subsidiaries of the REIT Subsidiary that are \"taxable REIT subsidiaries\" will generally be required to pay federal corporate income tax on their earnings, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to the Partnership and thus to our unitholders.. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. We anticipate that the majority of our income will consist of dividend income from the REIT Subsidiary, and this dividend income will be allocated among our unitholders. Whereas qualified dividend income allocated to unitholders that are individuals, trusts and estates generally is subject to tax at preferential rates, subject to limited exceptions, dividends payable by REITs, including the REIT Subsidiary, are not eligible for these reduced rates and are taxable at ordinary income tax rates but, under the 2017 Tax Legislation, U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates generally may deduct 20% of ordinary dividends from a REIT for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive an investment in us to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of corporations that pay qualified dividends, which could have adverse consequences to the value of our common units, preferred units, and other partnership interests."
