[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Landec desires to take advantage of the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and of Section 21E and Rule 3b-6 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Specifically, Landec wishes to alert readers that the following important factors could in the future affect, and in the past have affected, Landec’s actual results and could cause Landec’s results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf, of Landec. Landec assumes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements.. Adverse Weather Conditions and Other Acts of God May Cause Substantial Decreases in Our Sales and/or Increases in Our Costs. Our Packaged Fresh Vegetables business is subject to weather conditions that affect commodity prices, crop quality and yields, and crop varieties to be planted. Crop diseases and severe conditions, particularly weather conditions such as unexpected or excessive rain or other precipitation, unseasonable temperature fluctuations, floods, droughts, frosts, windstorms, earthquakes and hurricanes, may adversely affect the supply of vegetables and fruits used in our business, which could reduce the sales volumes and/or increase the unit production costs. The Company experienced significant product sourcing issues in fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016 as a result of severe adverse weather conditions that materially adversely affected the Company’s financial results. Because a significant portion of the costs are fixed and contracted in advance of each operating year, volume declines reflecting production interruptions or other factors could result in increases in unit production costs which could result in substantial losses and weaken our financial condition.. -9-. Table of Contents. Our Future Operating Results Are Likely to Fluctuate Which May Cause Our Stock Price to Decline. In the past, our results of operations have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. Apio can be affected by seasonal and weather-related factors which have impacted our financial results in the past due to shortages of essential value-added produce items. In addition, the fair market value change in our Windset investment can fluctuate substantially quarter to quarter. Lifecore can be affected by the timing of orders from its relatively small customer base and the timing of the shipment of those orders. Our earnings may also fluctuate based on our ability to collect accounts receivable from customers and notes receivable from growers and on price fluctuations in the fresh vegetable and fruit markets. Other factors that affect our operations include:. our ability and our growers’ ability to obtain an adequate supply of labor,. our growers’ ability to obtain an adequate supply of water,. the seasonality and availability and quantity of our supplies,. our ability to process produce during critical harvest periods,. the timing and effects of ripening,. the degree of perishability,. the effectiveness of worldwide distribution systems,. total worldwide industry volumes,. the seasonality and timing of consumer demand,. foreign currency fluctuations, and. foreign importation restrictions and foreign political risks.. As a result of these and other factors, we expect to continue to experience fluctuations in quarterly operating results.. We May Not Be Able to Achieve Acceptance of Our New Products in the Marketplace. Our success in generating significant sales of our products depends in part on our ability and that of our partners and licensees to achieve market acceptance of our new products and technology. The extent to which, and rate at which, we achieve market acceptance, including customer preferences and trends, and penetration of our current and future products is a function of many variables including, but not limited to:. price,. safety,. efficacy,. reliability,. conversion costs,. regulatory approvals,. marketing and sales efforts, and. general economic conditions affecting purchasing patterns.. -10-. Table of Contents. We may not be able to develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner or new products and technologies may not gain market acceptance. We and our partners/customers are in the early stage of product commercialization of certain Intelimer-based specialty packaging, and HA-based products and non-HA products and new oil and vinegar products. We expect that our future growth will depend in large part on our and our partners’/customers’ ability to develop and market new products in our target markets and in new markets. In particular, we expect that our ability to compete effectively with existing food products companies will depend substantially on developing, commercializing, achieving market acceptance of and reducing the cost of producing our products. In addition, commercial applications of some of our temperature switch polymer technology are relatively new and evolving. Our failure to develop new products or the failure of our new products to achieve market acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We May Be Exposed to Employment Related Claims and Costs that Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Business. We have been subject in the past, and may be in the future, to claims by employees based on allegations of discrimination, negligence, harassment and inadvertent employment of undocumented workers or unlicensed personnel, and we may be subject to payment of workers' compensation claims and other similar claims. We could incur substantial costs and our management could spend a significant amount of time responding to such complaints or litigation regarding employee claims, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, several recent decisions by the United States NLRB have found companies, such as Apio, which use contract employees could be found to be “joint employers” with the staffing firm. During fiscal year 2017, the Company settled a lawsuit in which it and Apio’s labor contractor were named in several civil actions and administrative actions involving claims filed by current and past employees of Apio’s labor contractor.. We Are Subject to Increasing Competition in the Marketplace. Competitors may succeed in developing alternative technologies and products that are more effective, easier to use or less expensive than those which have been or are being developed by us or that would render our technology and products obsolete and non-competitive. We operate in highly competitive and rapidly evolving fields, and new developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. Competition from large food products, industrial, medical and pharmaceutical companies is expected to be intense. In addition, the nature of our collaborative arrangements may result in our corporate partners and licensees becoming our competitors. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources and production and marketing capabilities than we do, and may have substantially greater experience in conducting clinical and field trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing commercial products.. We Depend on Our Infrastructure to Have Sufficient Capacity to Handle Our On-Going Production Needs. We have an infrastructure that has sufficient capacity for our on-going production needs, but if our machinery or facilities are damaged or impaired due to natural disasters or mechanical failure, we may not be able to operate at a sufficient capacity to meet our production needs. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, which could impact our results of operations and our financial condition.. We Have a Concentration of Manufacturing for Apio and Lifecore and May Have to Depend on Third Parties to Manufacture Our Products. Any disruptions in our primary manufacturing operations at Apio’s facilities in Guadalupe, CA, Bowling Green, OH or Hanover, PA or Lifecore’s facilities in Chaska, MN would reduce our ability to sell our products and would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Additionally, we may need to consider seeking collaborative arrangements with other companies to manufacture our products. If we become dependent upon third parties for the manufacture of our products, our profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver those products on a timely basis may be adversely affected. In that event, additional regulatory inspections or approvals may be required, and additional quality control measures would need to be implemented. Failures by third parties may impair our ability to deliver products on a timely basis and impair our competitive position. We may not be able to continue to successfully operate our manufacturing operations at acceptable costs, with acceptable yields, and retain adequately trained personnel.. We Are Dependent on Our Key Employees and if One or More of Them Were to Leave, We Could Experience Difficulties in Replacing Them, or Effectively Transitioning Their Replacements and Our Operating Results Could Suffer. The success of our business depends to a significant extent on the continued service and performance of a relatively small number of key senior management, technical, sales, and marketing personnel. The loss of any of our key personnel for an extended period may cause hardship for our business. In addition, competition for senior level personnel with knowledge and experience in our different lines of business is intense. If any of our key personnel were to leave, we would need to devote substantial resources and management attention to replace them. As a result, management attention may be diverted from managing our business, and we may need to pay higher compensation to replace these employees.. -11-. Table of Contents. Any New Business Acquisition Will Involve Uncertainty Relating to Integration. We acquired O in March 2017 and have acquired other businesses in the past and may make additional acquisitions in the future. The successful integration of new business acquisitions may require substantial effort from the Company's management. The diversion of the attention of management and any difficulties encountered in the transition process could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. The successful combination of new businesses also requires coordination of research and development activities, manufacturing, sales and marketing efforts. In addition, the process of combining organizations located in different geographic regions could cause the interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the Company's activities. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain key management, technical, sales and customer support personnel, or that the Company will realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions, and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our Dependence on Single-Source Suppliers and Service Providers May Cause Disruption in Our Operations Should Any Supplier Fail to Deliver Materials. We may experience difficulty acquiring materials or services for the manufacture of our products or we may not be able to obtain substitute vendors at all or on a timely basis. In addition, we may not be able to procure comparable materials at similar prices and terms within a reasonable time, if at all. Several services that are provided to Apio are obtained from a single provider. Several of the raw materials we use to manufacture our products are currently purchased from a single source, including some monomers used to synthesize Intelimer polymers, substrate materials for our breathable membrane products and raw materials for our HA products. Any interruption of our relationship with single-source suppliers or service providers could delay product shipments and materially harm our business.. Our Operations Are Subject to Regulations that Directly Impact Our Business. Our products and operations are subject to governmental regulation in the United States and foreign countries. The manufacture of our products is subject to detailed standards for product development, manufacturing controls, ongoing quality monitoring and analysis, and periodic inspection by regulatory authorities. We may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive approvals or loss of previously received approvals would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of Apio’s manufacturing workforce is provided by third-party labor contractors. The Company relies upon these contractors to validate the worker’s immigration status and their eligibility to work in the Company’s facilities, and failure of these contractors’ control processes or our internal control processes could result in Apio not complying with applicable regulations. Although we have no reason to believe that we will not be able to comply with all applicable regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our products and polymer materials, regulations are always subject to change and depend heavily on administrative interpretations and the country in which the products are sold. Future changes in regulations or interpretations relating to matters such as safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, environmental controls, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances may adversely affect our business.. Our food operations are subject to regulation by the FDA, FTC, and other governmental entities. Applicable laws and regulations are subject to change from time to time and could impact how we manage the production and sale of our food products. We are subject, for example, to FDA compliance and regulations concerning the safety of the food products handled and sold by Apio, and the facilities in which they are packed and processed. Failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in:. fines, injunctions, civil penalties, and suspensions,. withdrawal of regulatory approvals or registrations,. product recalls and product seizures, including cessation of manufacturing and sales,. operating restrictions, and. criminal prosecution.. -12-. Table of Contents. Compliance with federal, state, and local laws and regulations is costly and time-consuming. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with the laws and regulations in the future which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our food packaging products are subject to regulation under the FDC Act. Under the FDC Act, any substance that when used as intended may reasonably be expected to become, directly or indirectly, a component or otherwise affect the characteristics of any food may be regulated as a food additive unless the substance is generally recognized as safe. Food packaging materials are generally not considered food additives by the FDA if the products are not expected to become components of food under their expected conditions of use. We consider our breathable membrane product to be a food packaging material not subject to approval by the FDA. We have not received any communication from the FDA concerning our breathable membrane product. If the FDA were to determine that our breathable membrane products are food additives, we may be required to submit a food contact substance notification or food additive petition for approval by the FDA. The food additive petition process, in particular, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. A determination by the FDA that a food contact substance notification or food additive petition is necessary would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our Packaged Fresh Vegetables business is subject to the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act (“PACA”). PACA regulates fair trade standards in the fresh produce industry and governs all the products sold by Apio. Our failure to comply with the PACA requirements could among other things, result in civil penalties, suspension or revocation of a license to sell produce, and in the most egregious cases, criminal prosecution, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the FTC and other state authorities regulate how we promote and advertise our food products, and we could be the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state, and local laws and regulations.. Lifecore’s existing products and its products under development are considered to be medical devices, drug products, or combination products, and therefore, require clearance or approval by the FDA before commercial sales can be made in the United States. The products also require the approval of foreign government agencies before sales may be made in many other countries. The process of obtaining these clearances or approvals varies according to the nature and use of the product. It can involve lengthy and detailed safety and efficacy data, including clinical studies, as well as extensive site inspections and lengthy regulatory agency reviews. There can be no assurance that any of the Company’s clinical studies will be authorized to proceed, or if authorized will show safety or effectiveness; that any of the Company’s products that require FDA clearance or approval will obtain such clearance or approval on a timely basis, on terms acceptable to the Company for the purpose of actually marketing the products, or at all; or that following any such clearance or approval previously unknown problems will not result in restrictions on the marketing of the products or withdrawal of clearance or approval.. In addition, most of the existing products being sold by Lifecore and its customers are subject to continued regulation by the FDA, various state agencies and foreign regulatory agencies, which regulate the design, manufacturing, labeling, distribution, post-marketing product modifications, advertising, promotion, import, export and record keeping procedures for such products. Aseptic processing and shared equipment manufacturing require specific quality controls. If we fail to achieve and maintain these controls, we may have to recall product, or may have to reduce or suspend production while we address any deficiencies. Marketing clearances or approvals by regulatory agencies can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial clearance or approval. These agencies can also limit or prevent the manufacture or distribution of Lifecore’s products. A determination that Lifecore is in violation of such regulations could lead to the issuance of adverse inspectional observations, a Warning Letter, imposition of civil penalties, including fines, product recalls or product seizures, preclusion of product export, a hold or delay in pending product approvals, injunctions against product manufacture and distribution, and, in extreme cases, criminal sanctions.. Federal, state and local regulations impose various environmental controls on the use, storage, discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals and gases used in some of our manufacturing processes. Our failure to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or future regulations could subject us to substantial liability or could cause our manufacturing operations to be suspended and changes in environmental regulations may impose the need for additional capital equipment or other requirements.. -13-. Table of Contents. We Depend on Strategic Partners and Licenses for Future Development. Our strategy for development, clinical and field testing, manufacture, commercialization and marketing for some of our current and future products includes entering into various collaborations with corporate partners, licensees and others. We are dependent on our corporate partners to develop, test, manufacture and/or market some of our products. Although we believe that our partners in these collaborations have an economic motivation to succeed in performing their contractual responsibilities, the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities are not within our control. Our partners may not perform their obligations as expected or we may not derive any additional revenue from the arrangements. Our partners may not pay any additional option or license fees to us or may not develop, market or pay any royalty fees related to products under such agreements. Moreover, some of the collaborative agreements provide that they may be terminated at the discretion of the corporate partner, and some of the collaborative agreements provide for termination under other circumstances. Our partners may pursue existing or alternative technologies in preference to our technology. Furthermore, we may not be able to negotiate additional collaborative arrangements in the future on acceptable terms, if at all, and our collaborative arrangements may not be successful.. Our Reputation and Business May Be Harmed if Our Computer Network Security or Any of the Databases Containing Our Trade Secrets, Proprietary Information or the Personal Information of Our Employees Are Compromised. Cyber-attacks or security breaches could compromise our confidential business information, cause a disruption in the Company’s operations or harm our reputation. We maintain numerous information assets, including intellectual property, trade secrets, banking information and other sensitive information critical to the operation and success of our business on computer networks, and such information may be compromised in the event that the security of such networks is breached. We also maintain confidential information regarding our employees and job applicants, including personal identification information. The protection of employee and company data in the information technology systems we utilize (including those maintained by third-party providers) is critical. Despite the efforts by us to secure computer networks utilized for our business, security could be compromised, confidential information, such as Company information assets and personally identifiable employee information, could be misappropriated or system disruptions could occur.. In addition, we may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyberattacks. Attacks may be targeted at us, our customers or others who have entrusted us with information. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees and engage third-party experts and consultants. Advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect sensitive Company data being breached or compromised. Furthermore, actual or anticipated cyberattacks or data breaches may cause significant disruptions to our network operations, which may impact our ability to deliver shipments or respond to customer needs in a timely or efficient manner.. Data and security breaches could also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including an intentional or inadvertent breach by our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of confidential information related to our business or personal information of our employees. Any compromise or breach of our computer network security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, costly investigations and litigation and potential regulatory or other actions by governmental agencies. As a result of any of the foregoing, we could experience adverse publicity, the compromise of valuable information assets, loss of sales, the cost of remedial measures and/or significant expenditures to reimburse third parties for resulting damages, any of which could adversely impact our brand, our business and our results of operations.. We May Be Unable to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or May Infringe Intellectual Property Rights of Others. We may receive notices from third parties, including some of our competitors, claiming infringement by our products of their patent and other proprietary rights. Regardless of their merit, responding to any such claim could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter royalty and licensing agreements which may not be offered or available on terms acceptable to us. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, we could be required to alter our products or processes and our business, results of operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. Any pending patent applications we file may not be approved and we may not be able to develop additional proprietary products that are patentable. Any patents issued to us may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. Patents held by others may prevent the commercialization of products incorporating our technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents.. -14-. Table of Contents. The Global Economy is Experiencing Continued Volatility, Which May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. In recent years, the U.S. and international economy and financial markets have experienced significant volatility due to uncertainties related to the availability of credit, energy prices, difficulties in the banking and financial services sectors, diminished market liquidity, and geopolitical conflicts. Ongoing volatility in the economy and financial markets could further lead to reduced demand for our products, which in turn, would reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, volatility in the global markets have resulted in softer demand and more conservative purchasing decisions by customers, including a tendency toward lower-priced products, which could negatively impact our revenues, gross margins and results of operations. In addition to a reduction in sales, our profitability may decrease because we may not be able to reduce costs at the same rate as our sales decline. We cannot predict the ultimate severity or length of the current period of volatility, or the timing or severity of future economic or industry downturns.. Given the current uncertain economic environment, our customers, suppliers and partners may have difficulties obtaining capital at adequate or historical levels to finance their ongoing business and operations, which could impair their ability to make timely payments to us. This may result in lower sales and/or inventory that may not be saleable or bad debt expense for Landec. A worsening of the economic environment or continued or increased volatility of the U.S. economy, including increased volatility in the credit markets, could adversely impact our customers’ and vendors’ ability or willingness to conduct business with us on the same terms or at the same levels as they have historically. Further, this economic volatility and uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it challenging for Landec to forecast its operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect its business, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations.. Our International Sales May Expose Our Business to Additional Risks. For fiscal year 2018, approximately 20% of our consolidated net revenues were derived from product sales to international customers. A number of risks are inherent in international transactions. International sales and operations may be limited or disrupted by any of the following:. regulatory approval process,. government controls,. export license requirements,. political instability,. price controls,. trade restrictions,. fluctuations in foreign currencies,. changes in tariffs, or. difficulties in staffing and managing international operations.. Foreign regulatory agencies have or may establish product standards different from those in the United States, and any inability on our part to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our international business, and our financial condition and results of operations. While our foreign sales are currently priced in dollars, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may reduce the demand for our products by increasing the price of our products in the currency of the countries in which the products are sold. Regulatory, geopolitical and other factors may adversely impact our operations in the future or require us to modify our current business practices.. Cancellations or Delays of Orders by Our Customers May Adversely Affect Our Business. During fiscal year 2018, sales to our top five customers accounted for approximately 49% of our revenues, with our two largest customers from our Packaged Fresh Vegetables segment, Costco and Wal-mart accounting for approximately 19% and 18%, respectively, of our revenues. We expect that, for the foreseeable future, a limited number of customers may continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues. We may experience changes in the composition of our customer base as we have experienced in the past. The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more major customers for any reason or the loss of one or more of our major customers could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, since some of the products processed by Apio and Lifecore are sole sourced to customers, our operating results could be adversely affected if one or more of our major customers were to develop other sources of supply. Our current customers may not continue to place orders, orders by existing customers may be canceled or may not continue at the levels of previous periods or we may not be able to obtain orders from new customers.. -15-. Table of Contents. Our Sale of Some Products May Expose Us to Product Liability Claims. The testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of the products we develop involve an inherent risk of allegations of product liability. If any of our products are determined or alleged to be contaminated or defective or to have caused a harmful accident to an end-customer, we could incur substantial costs in responding to complaints or litigation regarding our products and our product brand image could be materially damaged. Such events may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Although we have taken and intend to continue to take what we consider to be appropriate precautions to minimize exposure to product liability claims, we may not be able to avoid significant liability. We currently maintain product liability insurance. While we think the coverage and limits are consistent with industry standards, our coverage may not be adequate or may not continue to be available at an acceptable cost, if at all. A product liability claim, product recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our Stock Price May Fluctuate in Response to Various Conditions, Many of Which Are Beyond Our Control. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:. weather-related produce sourcing issues,. technological innovations applicable to our products,. our attainment of (or failure to attain) milestones in the commercialization of our technology,. our development of new products or the development of new products by our competitors,. new patents or changes in existing patents applicable to our products,. our acquisition of new businesses or the sale or disposal of a part of our businesses,. development of new collaborative arrangements by us, our competitors or other parties,. changes in government regulations, interpretation, or enforcement applicable to our business,. changes in investor perception of our business,. fluctuations in our operating results, and. changes in the general market conditions in our industry.. Fluctuations in our quarterly results may, particularly if unforeseen, cause us to miss projections which might result in analysts or investors changing their valuation of our stock.. Lapses in Disclosure Controls and Procedures or Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Could Materially and Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations, Profitability or Reputation. We are committed to maintaining high standards of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Nevertheless, lapses or deficiencies in disclosure controls and procedures or in our internal control over financial reporting may occur from time to time. There can be no assurance that our disclosure controls and procedures will be effective in preventing a material weakness or significant deficiency in internal control over financial reporting from occurring in the future. Any such lapses or deficiencies may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations or financial condition, restrict our ability to access the capital markets, require us to expend resources to correct the lapses or deficiencies, which could include the restating of previously reported financial results, expose us to regulatory or legal proceedings, harm our reputation, or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence.. -16-. Table of Contents. We May Issue Preferred Stock with Preferential Rights that Could Affect Your Rights. The issuance of shares of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third-party to acquire a majority of our outstanding stock, and the holders of such preferred stock could have voting, dividend, liquidation and other rights superior to those of holders of our Common Stock.. We Have Never Paid Any Dividends on Our Common Stock. We have not paid any dividends on our Common Stock since inception and do not expect to in the foreseeable future. Any dividends may be subject to preferential dividends payable on any preferred stock we may issue."
