[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our outstanding common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. See \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K.. Risks Related to Our Products. The growth of our business is substantially dependent on our ability to continue to grow the appropriate use of DEFINITY in suboptimal echocardiograms in the face of increased segment competition from other existing echocardiography agents and potential generic competitors as a result of future patent and regulatory exclusivity expirations.. The growth of our business is substantially dependent on our ability to continue to grow the appropriate use of DEFINITY in suboptimal echocardiograms. There were approximately 33.1 million echocardiograms in 2017 according to a third-party source. Assuming 20% of echocardiograms produce suboptimal images, as stated in the clinical literature, we estimate that approximately 6.6 million echocardiograms in 2017 produced suboptimal images. We estimate that DEFINITY held over 80% of the U.S. market for contrast agents in echocardiography procedures as of December 2017. DEFINITY currently competes with Optison, a GE Healthcare product, Lumason, a Bracco product (known as SonoVue outside the U.S.), as well as other non-echocardiography agents.. We launched DEFINITY in 2001, and in the U.S., an Orange Book-listed composition of matter patent will expire in 2019, a manufacturing patent will expire in 2021, a new Orange Book-listed method of use patent will expire in 2037 and an allowed manufacturing patent application that, when granted, will expire in 2037. In numerous foreign jurisdictions, patent protection or regulatory exclusivity will currently expire in 2019. As part of our microbubble franchise strategy, we continue to actively pursue additional patents in connection with DEFINITY, alternative microbubble formulations, and related technology. We also plan to initiate additional clinical trials with DEFINITY to pursue expansion of the current DEFINITY indication to include EF. However, we can give no assurance that our microbubble franchise strategy will be successful or that new patents or approvals will protect the agent or be defensible in the face of potential generic competition.. We have on-going development and technology transfer activities for an alternative microbubble formulation with SBL located in Songdo, South Korea, approximately 20 miles southwest of Seoul, but can give no assurances as to when those technology transfer activities will be completed and when we will begin to receive a supply of an alternative microbubble formulation from SBL. In addition, those activities could be adversely affected by on-going political and military tensions on the Korean peninsula.. If we are not able to continue to grow DEFINITY sales, we may not be able to continue to grow the revenue and cash flow of the business, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 23. Table of Contents. We face revenue and unit volume risk for Xenon in pulmonary studies as a result of competition from Curium and potentially others.. Historically, several companies, including Curium, sold packaged Xenon as a pulmonary imaging agent in the U.S., but from 2010 through the first quarter of 2016 we were the only supplier of this imaging agent in the U.S. In March 2016, Curium received regulatory approval from the FDA to again sell packaged Xenon in the U.S. and began to do so. Depending upon the pricing, extent of availability and market penetration of Curium's offering, we believe we are at risk for volume loss and price erosion from those customers that are not subject to price or volume commitments with us.. Xenon is frequently administered as part of a ventilation scan to evaluate pulmonary function prior to a perfusion scan with microaggregated albumin (\"MAA\"), a Technetium-based radiopharmaceutical used to evaluate blood flow to the lungs. Currently, JDI is the sole supplier of MAA on a global basis. Since 2014, JDI has instituted multiple and substantial price increases for MAA. The increased price of MAA, or difficulties in obtaining MAA, could decrease the frequency in which MAA is used for lung perfusion evaluation, in turn, decreasing the frequency that Xenon is used for pulmonary function evaluation, resulting in a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition to competition from Curium, other imaging agents and modalities could potentially compete with, or displace, packaged Xenon in pulmonary studies. For example, in December 2017, JDI received FDA approval for the use of DTPA (Kit for the Preparation of Technetium Tc99M Pentetate Injection) (\"DTPA\") in lung ventilation assessments. If there is an increase in the use of DTPA or other imaging agents or modalities in place of packaged Xenon, our current sales volumes would decrease, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In the U.S., we are heavily dependent on a few large customers and group purchasing organization arrangements to generate a majority of our revenues for our nuclear medical imaging products and our other products. Outside of the U.S., we rely primarily on distributors to generate a substantial portion of our revenue.. In the U.S., we have historically relied on a limited number of radiopharmacy customers, primarily Cardinal, UPPI, GE Healthcare and Triad, to distribute our current largest volume nuclear imaging products and generate a majority of our revenues. Three customers accounted for approximately 33% of our revenues in the year ended December 31, 2017, with Cardinal, UPPI and GE Healthcare accounting for approximately 12%, 10% and 10%, respectively. Among the existing radiopharmacies in the U.S., continued consolidations, divestitures and reorganizations may have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We generally have distribution arrangements with our major radiopharmacy customers pursuant to multi-year contracts, each of which is subject to renewal. If these contracts are terminated prior to expiration of their term, or are not renewed, or are renewed on terms that are less favorable to us, then such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. For all of our medical imaging products, we continue to experience significant pricing pressures from our competitors, large customers and group purchasing organizations, and any significant, additional pricing pressures could lead to a reduction in revenue which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Outside of the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, we have no sales force and, consequently, rely on third-party distributors, either on a country-by-country basis or on a multi-country, regional basis, to market, sell and distribute our products. In Canada, we maintain our own direct sales force to sell DEFINITY. We formerly owned or operated radiopharmacies and we now sell radiopharmaceutical products under the Isologic Supply Agreement. In Australia, we also formerly owned or operated radiopharmacies, and we now sell DEFINITY and radiopharmaceutical products under the GMS Supply Agreement. Distributors accounted for approximately 45%, 34% and 15% of International segment revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In certain circumstances, distributors may also sell competing products to our own or products for competing diagnostic modalities and may have incentives to shift sales towards those competing products. As a result, we cannot assure you that our international distributors will increase or maintain current levels of unit sales or that we will be able to increase or maintain our current unit pricing, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of a substantial portion of our products could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers in the required quantities, within the required timeframes, or at all, which could result in order cancellations and decreased revenues.. We obtain a substantial portion of our products from third party manufacturers and suppliers. We rely on JHS as our sole source manufacturer of DEFINITY, Neurolite, Cardiolite and evacuation vials. We currently have additional on-going technology transfer activities for an alternative microbubble formulation with SBL, but we cannot give any assurances as to when that technology transfer will be completed and when we will actually receive supply of an alternative microbubble formulation from SBL. Currently, our DEFINITY, Neurolite, Cardiolite, evacuation vial and saline product supplies are approved for manufacture by a single manufacturer.. 24. Table of Contents. Based on our current estimates, we believe that we will have sufficient supply of DEFINITY, Neurolite, Cardiolite and evacuation vials from JHS, and sufficient supply of saline from our sole manufacturer, to meet expected demand. However, we can give no assurances that JHS or our other manufacturing partner will be able to manufacture and distribute our products in a high quality and timely manner and in sufficient quantities to allow us to avoid product stock-outs and shortfalls. Currently, regulatory authorities in certain countries have not yet approved JHS as a manufacturer of certain of our products. Accordingly, until those regulatory approvals have been obtained, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will continue to be adversely affected.. Xenon is captured as a by-product of the Moly production process. Historically, Nordion was our sole supplier of Xenon, from Moly generated at the NRU reactor in Canada. As a result of a decision by the Government of Canada, the NRU reactor exited the medical isotope business in November 2016. We now receive bulk unprocessed Xenon from IRE resulting from HEU Moly production, which we process and finish for our customers. We do not yet receive Xenon resulting from LEU Moly production at IRE and can give no assurances as to the timing of the availability of LEU Xenon. We believe we will have a sufficient supply of HEU and LEU Xenon to meet our customers' needs. However, until IRE converts to LEU Xenon production or we can qualify an additional source of bulk unprocessed Xenon, we will rely on IRE as a sole source provider of HEU Xenon. For the year ended December 31, 2017, Xenon represented approximately 10% of our revenues.. In addition to the products described above, for reasons of quality assurance or cost-effectiveness, we purchase certain components and raw materials from sole suppliers (including, for example, the lead casing for our TechneLite generators and the lipid blend material used in the processing of DEFINITY). Because we do not control the actual production of many of the products we sell and many of the raw materials and components that make up the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on events and conditions outside of our control. At our North Billerica, Massachusetts facility, we manufacture TechneLite on a relatively new, highly automated production line, as well as Thallium and Gallium using our older cyclotron technology and Xenon and Quadramet using our hot cell infrastructure. As with all manufacturing facilities, equipment and infrastructure age and become subject to increasing maintenance and repair. If we or one of our manufacturing partners experiences an event, including a labor dispute, natural disaster, fire, power outage, machinery breakdown, security problem, failure to meet regulatory requirements, product quality issue, technology transfer issue or other issue, we may be unable to manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or on the forecasted schedule, if at all. Due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the governing regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly restart manufacturing at a third party or our own facility or establish additional or replacement sources for certain products, components or materials.. In addition to our existing manufacturing relationships, we are also pursuing new manufacturing relationships to establish and secure additional or alternative suppliers for our commercial products. We currently have additional on-going technology transfer activities for an alternative microbubble formulation with SBL. We have also commenced an extensive, multi-year effort to add specialized manufacturing capabilities at our North Billerica, Massachusetts facility.  This project is part of a larger corporate growth strategy to create a competitive advantage in specialized manufacturing. This project should not only deliver cost savings and supply chain redundancy for our current portfolio but also should afford us increased flexibility as we consider external opportunities. However, we cannot assure you that these activities or any of our additional supply activities will be successful or that we will be able to avoid or mitigate interim supply shortages before new sources of product are fully functional and qualified. In addition, we cannot assure you that our existing manufacturers or suppliers or any new manufacturers or suppliers can adequately maintain either their financial health or regulatory compliance to allow continued production and supply. A reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or components, could eventually have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The global supply of Moly is fragile and not stable. Our dependence on a limited number of third party suppliers for Moly could prevent us from delivering some of our products to our customers in the required quantities, within the required timeframe, or at all, which could result in order cancellations and decreased revenues.. A critical ingredient of TechneLite is Moly. We currently purchase finished Moly from three of the four main processing sites in the world, namely NTP in South Africa; ANSTO in Australia; and IRE in Belgium. These processing sites provide us Moly from five of the six main Moly-producing reactors in the world, namely, OPAL in Australia; BR2 in Belgium; LVR-15 in the Czech Republic; HFR in The Netherlands; and SAFARI in South Africa.. Historically, our largest supplier of Moly was Nordion, which has relied on the NRU reactor owned by Atomic Energy of Canada Limited, a Crown corporation of the Government of Canada, located in Chalk River, Ontario. As a result of a decision by the Government of Canada, the NRU reactor exited the medical isotope business in November 2016.. 25. Table of Contents. ANSTO has under construction, in cooperation with NTP, a new Moly processing facility that ANSTO believes will nearly double its production capacity by approximately 2.5 times, with commercial production planned to start in the second half of 2018. In addition, IRE received approval from its regulator to expand its production capability by up to 50% of its former capacity. This new ANSTO and IRE production capacity is expected to replace the NRU's most recent routine production. While we believe this additional Moly supply will give us the most balanced and diversified Moly supply chain in the industry, a prolonged disruption of service from only one of our Moly suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For example, due to regulatory issues, the NTP processing facility was off-line from late November 2017 until mid February 2018, and we were forced to rely on Moly supply from only ANSTO and IRE during this period, resulting in our inability to fill all of the demand for our TechneLite generators on certain manufacturing days and consequently decreasing revenue and cash flow from this product line during this period as compared to prior periods. A longer term outage from one of our three Moly suppliers could have a substantial negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We are also pursuing additional sources of Moly from potential new producers around the world to further augment our current supply. In November 2014, we entered into a strategic agreement with SHINE for the future supply of Moly. Under the terms of the supply agreement, SHINE will provide Moly produced using its proprietary LEU-solution technology for use in our TechneLite generators once SHINE's facility becomes operational and receives all necessary regulatory approvals, which SHINE now estimates will occur in 2020. However, we cannot assure you that SHINE or any other possible additional sources of Moly will result in commercial quantities of Moly for our business, or that these new suppliers together with our current suppliers will be able to deliver a sufficient quantity of Moly to meet our needs.. U.S., Canadian and international governments have encouraged the development of a number of alternative Moly production projects with existing reactors and technologies as well as new technologies. However, we cannot say when, or if, the Moly produced from these projects will become available. As a result, there is a limited amount of Moly available which could limit the quantity of TechneLite that we could manufacture, sell and distribute, resulting in a further substantial negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Most of the global suppliers of Moly rely on Framatone-CERCA in France to fabricate uranium targets and in some cases fuel for research reactors from which Moly is produced. Absent a new supplier, a supply disruption relating to uranium targets or fuel could have a substantial negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The instability of the global supply of Moly, including supply shortages, resulted in increases in the cost of Moly, which has negatively affected our margins, and more restrictive agreements with suppliers, which could further increase our costs.. With the general instability in the global supply of Moly, including supply shortages during 2009 and 2010, we have faced substantial increases in the cost of Moly in comparison to historical costs. We expect these cost increases to continue in the future as the Moly suppliers move closer to a full cost recovery business model. The Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (\"OECD\") defines full cost recovery as the identification of all of the costs of production and recovering these costs from the market. While we are generally able to pass Moly cost increases on to our customers in our customer contracts, if we are not able to do so in the future, our margins may decline further with respect to our TechneLite generators, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our just-in-time manufacturing of radiopharmaceutical products relies on the timely receipt of radioactive raw materials and the timely shipment of finished goods, and any disruption of our supply or distribution networks could have a negative effect on our business.. Because a number of our radiopharmaceutical products, including our TechneLite generators, rely on radioisotopes with limited half-lives, we must manufacture, finish and distribute these products on a just-in-time basis, because the underlying radioisotope is in a constant state of radio decay. For example, if we receive Moly in the morning of a manufacturing day for TechneLite generators, then we will generally ship finished generators to customers by the end of that same business day. Shipment of generators may be by next day delivery services or by either ground or air custom logistics. Any delay in us receiving radioisotopes from suppliers or being able to have finished products delivered to customers because of weather or other unforeseen transportation issues could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 26. Table of Contents. Challenges with product quality or product performance, including defects, caused by us or our suppliers could result in a decrease in customers and revenues, unexpected expenses and loss of market share.. The manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex and must meet stringent quality requirements, due in part to strict regulatory requirements, including the FDA's cGMPs. Problems may be identified or arise during manufacturing quality review, packaging or shipment for a variety of reasons including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors. Additionally, manufacturing flaws, component failures, design defects, off-label uses or inadequate disclosure of product-related information could result in an unsafe condition or the injury or death of a patient. Those events could lead to a recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products. We also may undertake voluntarily to recall products or temporarily shut down production lines based on internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data.. Quality, regulatory and recall challenges could cause us to incur significant costs, including costs to replace products, lost revenue, damage to customer relationships, time and expense spent investigating the cause and costs of any possible settlements or judgments related thereto and potentially cause similar losses with respect to other products. These challenges could also divert the attention of our management and employees from operational, commercial or other business efforts. If we deliver products with defects, or if there is a perception that our products or the processes related to our products contain errors or defects, we could incur additional recall and product liability costs, and our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be materially adversely affected. Due to the strong name recognition of our brands, an adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and our ability to market our products in the future. In some circumstances, adverse events arising from or associated with the design, manufacture or marketing of our products could result in the suspension or delay of regulatory reviews of our applications for new product approvals. These challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We face significant competition in our business and may not be able to compete effectively.. The market for diagnostic medical imaging agents is highly competitive and continually evolving. Our principal competitors in existing diagnostic modalities include large, global companies with substantial financial, manufacturing, sales and marketing and logistics resources that are more diversified than ours, such as GE Healthcare, Bracco, Curium and Jubilant Life Sciences, as well as other competitors, including NorthStar Medical Radioisotopes. We cannot anticipate their actions in the same or competing diagnostic modalities, such as significant price reductions on products that are comparable to our own, development or introduction of new products that are more cost-effective or have superior performance than our current products, the introduction of generic versions when our proprietary products lose their patent protection or the new entry into a generic market in which we are already a participant. In addition, distributors of our products could attempt to shift end-users to competing diagnostic modalities and products. Our current or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical as a result of these activities. Our failure to compete effectively could cause us to lose market share to our competitors and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 27. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Reimbursement and Regulation. Certain of our customers are highly dependent on payments from third party payors, including government sponsored programs, particularly Medicare, in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate, and reductions in third party coverage and reimbursement rates for our products (or services provided with our products) could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. A substantial portion of our revenue depends, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products purchased by our customers are reimbursed by third party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, other U.S. government sponsored programs, non-U.S. governmental payors and private payors. These third party payors exercise significant control over patient access and increasingly use their enhanced bargaining power to secure discounted rates and impose other requirements that may reduce demand for our products. Our potential customers' ability to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from these third party payors affects the selection of products they purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. For example, certain radiopharmaceuticals, when used for non-invasive imaging of the perfusion of the heart for the diagnosis and management of patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease, are currently subject to a Medicare National Coverage Determination (\"NCD\"). The NCD permits the coverage of such radiopharmaceuticals only when certain criteria are met. Our pipeline products, including flurpiridaz F 18, if approved, may become subject to this NCD, and may not be covered at all. If Medicare and other third party payors do not provide appropriate reimbursement for the costs of our products (or services provided using our products), deny the coverage of the products (or those services), or reduce current levels of reimbursement, healthcare professionals may not prescribe our products and providers and suppliers may not purchase our products. In addition, demand for new products may be limited unless we obtain favorable reimbursement policies (including coverage, coding and payment) from governmental and private third party payors at the time of the product's introduction, which will depend, in part, on our ability to demonstrate that a new agent has a positive impact on clinical outcomes. Third party payors continually review their coverage policies for existing and new therapies and can deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our products or revise payment policies such that payments do not adequately cover the cost of our products. Even if third party payors make coverage and reimbursement available, that reimbursement may not be adequate or these payors' reimbursement policies may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Over the past several years, Medicare has implemented numerous changes to payment policies for imaging procedures in both the hospital setting and non-hospital settings (which include physician offices and freestanding imaging facilities). Some of these changes have had a negative impact on utilization of imaging services. Examples of these changes include:. • Limiting payments for imaging services in physician offices and free-standing imaging facility settings based upon rates paid to hospital outpatient departments;. • Reducing payments for certain imaging procedures when performed together with other imaging procedures in the same family of procedures on the same patient on the same day in the physician office and free-standing imaging facility setting;. • Making significant revisions to the methodology for determining the practice expense component of the Medicare payment applicable to the physician office and free-standing imaging facility setting which results in a reduction in payment; and. • Revising payment policies and reducing payment amounts for imaging procedures performed in the hospital outpatient setting.. In the physician office and free-standing imaging facility setting, services provided using our products are reimbursed under the Medicare physician fee schedule. Since 2015, payments under the Medicare physician fee schedule have been subject to specific annual updates: a 0.5% update through 2019; no updates from 2020 to 2025; and, beginning in 2026, differential updates based on whether the physician participates in alternative payment models (with 0.75% updates for participants and 0.25% updates for non-participants). The legislation also adjusts the fee schedule payments, beginning in 2019, for certain physicians based on their performance under a consolidated measurement system (that measures performance with respect to quality, resource utilization, meaningful use of certified electronic health records technology, and clinical practice improvement activities). Also beginning in 2019, physicians may be eligible for a bonus based on the use of certain alternative payment models designated as \"advanced\" by CMS. The ongoing and future impact of these changes cannot be determined at this time.. 28. Table of Contents. We believe that Medicare changes to payment policies for imaging procedures applicable to non-hospital settings will continue to result in certain physician practices ceasing to provide these services and a further shifting of where certain medical imaging procedures are performed, from the physician office and free-standing imaging facility settings to the hospital outpatient setting. Changes applicable to Medicare payment in the hospital outpatient setting could also influence the decisions by hospital outpatient physicians to perform procedures that involve our products. Within the hospital outpatient setting, CMS payment policy is such that the use of many of our products are not separately payable by Medicare, although certain new drug products are eligible for separate payment for the first three years after approval. Specifically, since 2013, although Medicare generally does not provide separate payment to hospitals for the use of diagnostic radiopharmaceuticals administered in an outpatient setting, CMS has had a policy to make a nominal additional payment ($10) to hospitals that utilize products with non-HEU, meaning the product is 95% derived from non-HEU sources. This payment policy continues in 2018. Although some of our TechneLite generators are manufactured using non-HEU, not all of our TechneLite generators currently meet CMS's definition of non-HEU, and therefore this payment is not available for doses produced by the latter category of TechneLite generators used by our customers. Changes to the Medicare hospital outpatient prospective payment system payment rates, including reductions implemented for certain hospital outpatient sites, could influence the decisions by hospital outpatient physicians to perform procedures that involve our products.. We also believe that all these changes and their resulting pressures may incrementally reduce the overall number of diagnostic medical imaging procedures performed. These changes overall could slow the acceptance and introduction of next-generation imaging equipment into the marketplace, which, in turn, could adversely impact the future market adoption of certain of our imaging agents already in the market or currently in clinical or preclinical development. We expect that there will continue to be proposals to reduce or limit Medicare and Medicaid payment for diagnostic services.. We also expect increased regulation and oversight of advanced diagnostic testing in which our products are used. Federal legislation requires CMS to develop appropriate use criteria (\"AUC\") that professionals must consult when ordering advanced diagnostic imaging services (which include MRI, CT, nuclear medicine (including PET) and other advanced diagnostic imaging services that the Secretary of HHS, may specify). Beginning in 2020, the ordering professional will be required to consult a qualified clinical decision support mechanism, as identified by HHS, as to whether the ordered service adheres to the applicable AUC. Reimbursement penalties will apply in 2021 if this requirement is not met (and documented on the claim). To the extent that these types of changes have the effect of reducing the aggregate number of diagnostic medical imaging procedures performed in the U.S., our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would be adversely affected. See Part I, Item I. \"Business - Regulatory Matters.\". Reforms to the U.S. healthcare system may adversely affect our business.. A significant portion of our patient volume is derived from U.S. government healthcare programs, principally Medicare, which are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. The Healthcare Reform Act substantially changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. The law contains a number of provisions that affect coverage and reimbursement of drug products and medical imaging procedures in which our drug products are used and/or that could potentially reduce the aggregate number of diagnostic medical imaging procedures performed in the U.S. See Part I, Item 1. \"Business - Regulatory Matters - Healthcare Reform and Other Laws Affecting Payment.\" Subsequently, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 significantly revised the methodology for updating the Medicare physician fee schedule. And more recently, Congress enacted legislation in 2017 that eliminates the Healthcare Reform Act's \"individual mandate\" beginning in 2019, which may significantly impact the number of covered lives participating in exchange plans. Congress continues to consider other healthcare reform legislation. There is no assurance that the Healthcare Reform Act, as currently enacted or as amended in the future, will not adversely affect our business and financial results, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative, judicial or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Healthcare Reform Act was enacted. The Budget Control Act of 2011 and subsequent Congressional actions includes provisions to reduce the federal deficit. These provisions have resulted in the imposition of 2% reductions in Medicare payments to providers, which went into effect on April 1, 2013 and will remain in effect through 2024, and a 4% reduction in payment to providers during the first half of 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. Any significant spending reductions affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented and/or any significant taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broader deficit reduction effort or legislative replacement to the Budget Control Act, could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 29. Table of Contents. Further, changes in payor mix and reimbursement by private third party payors may also affect our business. Rates paid by some private third party payors are based, in part, on established physician, clinic and hospital charges and are generally higher than Medicare payment rates. Reductions in the amount of reimbursement paid for diagnostic medical imaging procedures and changes in the mix of our patients between non-governmental payors and government sponsored healthcare programs and among different types of non-government payor sources, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The full impact on our business of healthcare reforms and other new laws, or changes in existing laws, is uncertain. Nor is it clear whether additional legislative changes will be adopted or how those changes would affect our industry in general or our ability to successfully commercialize our products or develop new products.. Our business and industry are subject to complex and costly regulations. If government regulations are interpreted or enforced in a manner adverse to us or our business, we may be subject to enforcement actions, penalties, exclusion and other material limitations on our operations.. Both before and after the approval of our products and agents in development, we, our products, development agents, operations, facilities, suppliers, distributors, contract manufacturers, contract research organizations and contract testing laboratories are subject to extensive and, in certain circumstances, expanding regulation by federal, state and local government agencies in the U.S. as well as non-U.S. and transnational laws and regulations, with regulations differing from country to country, including, among other things, anti-trust and competition laws and regulations. In the U.S., the FDA regulates, among other things, the pre-clinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, potency, labeling, storage, record keeping, quality systems, advertising, promotion, sale, distribution, and import and export of drug products. We are required to register our business for permits and/or licenses with, and comply with the stringent requirements of the FDA, the NRC, the HHS, Health Canada, the EMA, the MHRA, the CFDA, state and provincial boards of pharmacy, state and provincial health departments and other federal, state and provincial agencies.. Under U.S. law, for example, we are required to report certain adverse events and production problems, if any, to the FDA. We also have similar adverse event and production reporting obligations outside of the U.S., including to the EMA and MHRA. Additionally, we must comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotion for our products, including the prohibition on the promotion of our products for indications that have not been approved by the FDA or a so-called \"off-label use.\" If the FDA determines that our promotional materials constitute the unlawful promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures at our own facility and at third party suppliers must conform to cGMP regulations and other applicable law after approval, and the FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMPs and other applicable law, and, from time to time, makes those cGMPs more stringent. Accordingly, we and others with whom we work must expend time, money, and effort in all areas of regulatory compliance, including manufacturing, production and quality control. If in the future issues arise at a third party manufacturer, the FDA could take regulatory action which could limit or suspend the ability of that third party to manufacture our products or have any additional products approved at the relevant facility for manufacture until the issues are resolved and remediated. Such a limitation or suspension could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We are also subject to laws and regulations that govern financial and other arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers, including federal and state anti-kickback statutes, federal and state false claims laws and regulations and other fraud and abuse laws and regulations. For example, in 2010, we entered into a Medicaid Drug Rebate Agreement with the federal government for some but not all of our products, and in 2016 entered into a separate Medicaid Drug Rebate Agreement for the balance of our products. These agreements require us to report certain price information to the federal government that could subject us to potential liability under the FCA, civil monetary penalties or liability under other laws and regulations in connection with the covered products as well as the products not at the time covered by the agreements. Determination of the rebate amount that we pay to state Medicaid programs for our products, as well as determination of payment amounts for some of our products under Medicare and certain other third party payers, including government payers, depends upon information reported by us to the government. If we provide customers or government officials with inaccurate information about the products' pricing or eligibility for coverage, or the products fail to satisfy coverage requirements, we could be terminated from the rebate program, be excluded from participation in government healthcare programs, or be subject to potential liability under the False Claims Act or other laws and regulations. See Part I, Item 1. \"Business - Regulatory Matters - Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws.\". Failure to comply with other requirements and restrictions placed upon us or our third party manufacturers or suppliers by laws and regulations can result in fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from federal healthcare programs and debarment. Possible consequences of those actions could include:. • Substantial modifications to our business practices and operations;. 30. Table of Contents. • Significantly reduced demand for our products (if products become ineligible for reimbursement under federal and state healthcare programs);. • A total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of the facilities where our products are produced while the alleged violation is being remediated;. • Delays in or the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and. • Withdrawals or suspensions of our current products from the market.. Regulations are subject to change as a result of legislative, administrative or judicial action, which may also increase our costs or reduce sales. Violation of any of these regulatory schemes, individually or collectively, could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our marketing and sales practices may contain risks that could result in significant liability, require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future.. We are subject to numerous domestic (federal, state and local) and foreign laws addressing fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including the FCA and Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, self-referral laws, the FCPA, the Bribery Act, FDA promotional restrictions, the federal disclosure (sunshine) law and state marketing and disclosure (sunshine) laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid as well as health programs outside the U.S., and even alleged violations can result in the imposition of corporate integrity agreements that could severely restrict or limit our business practices. See Part I, Item 1. \"Business-Regulatory Matters-Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws and Laws Relating to Foreign Trade.\" These laws and regulations are complex and subject to changing interpretation and application, which could restrict our sales or marketing practices. Even minor and inadvertent irregularities could potentially give rise to a charge that the law has been violated. Although we believe we maintain an appropriate compliance program, we cannot be certain that the program will adequately detect or prevent violations and/or the relevant regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation. Additionally, if there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change one or more of our business practices to be in compliance with these laws. Required changes could be costly and time consuming.. If our operations are found to be in violation of these laws or any other government regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including, without limitation, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, or exclusion from state and federal healthcare programs including Medicare and Medicaid, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. As an Emerging Growth Company (\"EGC\") under the JOBS Act, we have not been required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we transition from being an EGC to being a \"large accelerated filer,\" we will be required to implement the necessary procedures and practices related to internal control over financial reporting, and we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the necessary deadline.. Since our IPO in June 2015, we have been considered an EGC under the JOBS Act and have not been required to evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of those internal controls, starting with the year we cease being an EGC and become a \"large accelerated filer.\" That year could be as soon as 2018 if our market capitalization is at least $700 million on June 29, 2018. Once we are no longer an EGC, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. The rules governing the standards that must be met for our management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation of our existing controls and the incurrence of significant additional expenditures.. In connection with the implementation of the necessary procedures and practices related to internal control over financial reporting, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the necessary deadline. In addition, we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving a favorable attestation in connection with the attestation provided by our independent registered public accounting firm. We will be unable to issue securities in the public markets through the use of a shelf registration statement if we are not in compliance with Section 404. Furthermore, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 31. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Safety. Ultrasound contrast agents may cause side effects which could limit our ability to sell DEFINITY.. DEFINITY is an ultrasound contrast agent based on perflutren lipid microspheres. In 2007, the FDA received reports of deaths and serious cardiopulmonary reactions following the administration of ultrasound micro-bubble contrast agents used in echocardiography. Four of the 11 reported deaths were caused by cardiac arrest occurring either during or within 30 minutes following the administration of the contrast agent; most of the serious but non-fatal reactions also occurred in this time frame. As a result, in October 2007, the FDA requested that we and GE Healthcare, which distributes Optison, a competitor to DEFINITY, add a boxed warning to these products emphasizing the risk for serious cardiopulmonary reactions and that the use of these products was contraindicated in certain patients. In a strong reaction by the cardiology community to the FDA's new position, a letter was sent to the FDA, signed by 161 doctors, stating that the benefit of these ultrasound contrast agents outweighed the risks and urging that the boxed warning be removed. In May 2008, the FDA substantially modified the boxed warning. On May 2, 2011, the FDA held an advisory committee meeting to consider the status of ultrasound micro-bubble contrast agents and the boxed warning. In October 2011, we received FDA approval of further modifications to the DEFINITY label, including: further relaxing the boxed warning; eliminating the sentence in the Indication and Use section \"The safety and efficacy of DEFINITY with exercise stress or pharmacologic stress testing have not been established\" (previously added in October 2007 in connection with the imposition of the box warning); and including summary data from the post-approval CaRES (Contrast echocardiography Registry for Safety Surveillance) safety registry and the post-approval pulmonary hypertension study. Further, in January 2017, the FDA approved an additional modification to the DEFINITY label, removing the contraindication statement related to use in patients with a known or suspected cardiac shunt. Bracco's ultrasound contrast agent, Lumason, has substantially similar safety labeling as DEFINITY and Optison. If additional safety issues arise, this may result in unfavorable changes in labeling or result in restrictions on the approval of our product, including removal of the product from the market. Lingering safety concerns about DEFINITY among some healthcare providers or future unanticipated side effects or safety concerns associated with DEFINITY could limit expanded use of DEFINITY and have a material adverse effect on the unit sales of this product and our financial condition and results of operations.. A heightened public or regulatory focus on the radiation risks of diagnostic imaging could have an adverse effect on our business.. We believe that there has been heightened public and regulatory focus on radiation exposure, including the concern that repeated doses of radiation used in diagnostic imaging procedures pose the potential risk of long-term cell damage, cancer and other diseases. For example, starting in January 2012, CMS required the accreditation of facilities providing the technical component of advanced imaging services, including CT, MRI, PET and nuclear medicine, in non-hospital freestanding settings. In August 2011, The Joint Commission (an independent, not-for-profit organization that accredits and certifies more than 20,500 healthcare organizations and programs in the U.S.) issued an alert on the radiation risks of diagnostic imaging and recommended specific actions for providing \"the right test and the right dose through effective processes, safe technology and a culture of safety.\" Revised accreditation standards issued by The Joint Commission for diagnostic imaging took effect in July 2015.. Heightened regulatory focus on risks caused by the radiation exposure received by diagnostic imaging patients could lead to increased regulation of radiopharmaceutical manufacturers or healthcare providers who perform procedures that use our imaging agents, which could make the procedures more costly, reduce the number of providers who perform procedures and/or decrease the demand for our products. In addition, heightened public focus on or fear of radiation exposure could lead to decreased demand for our products by patients or by healthcare providers who order the procedures in which our agents are used. Although we believe that our diagnostic imaging agents when properly used do not expose patients and healthcare providers to unsafe levels of radiation, any of the foregoing risks could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to product liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class actions, alleging that our products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury.. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming and costly to defend and could result in an increase of our insurance premiums. Although we have not had any such claims to date, claims that could be brought against us might not be covered by our insurance policies. Furthermore, although we currently have product liability insurance coverage with policy limits that we believe are customary for pharmaceutical companies in the diagnostic medical imaging industry and adequate to provide us with insurance coverage for foreseeable risks, even where the claim is covered by our insurance, our insurance coverage might be inadequate and we would have to pay the amount of any settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. We may not be able to obtain insurance on terms acceptable to us or at all, since insurance varies in cost and can be difficult to obtain. Our failure to maintain adequate insurance coverage or successfully defend against product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 32. Table of Contents. We use hazardous materials in our business and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive.. Our operations use hazardous materials and produce hazardous wastes, including radioactive, chemical and, in certain circumstances, biological materials and wastes. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations as well as non-U.S. laws and regulations relating to the transport, use, handling, storage, exposure to and disposal of these materials and wastes. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time. We are required to obtain, maintain and renew various environmental permits and nuclear licenses. Although we believe that our safety procedures for transporting, using, handling, storing and disposing of, and limiting exposure to, these materials and wastes comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by applicable laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury cannot be eliminated. We place a high priority on these safety procedures and seek to limit any inherent risks. We generally contract with third parties for the disposal of wastes generated by our operations. Prior to disposal, we store any low level radioactive waste at our facilities to decay until the materials are no longer considered radioactive. Although we believe we have complied in all material respects with all applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be in compliance with all such laws at all times. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We may be required to incur further costs to comply with current or future environmental and safety laws and regulations. In addition, in the event of accidental contamination or injury from these materials, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources.. While we have budgeted for current and future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with these laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury, investigation or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business depends on our ability to successfully introduce new products and adapt to a changing technology and diagnostic landscape.. The healthcare industry is characterized by continuous technological development resulting in changing customer preferences and requirements. The success of new product development depends on many factors, including our ability to fund development of new agents, anticipate and satisfy customer needs, obtain regulatory approval on a timely basis based on performance of our agents in development versus their clinical study comparators, develop and manufacture products in a cost-effective and timely manner, maintain advantageous positions with respect to intellectual property and differentiate our products from our competitors. To compete successfully in the marketplace, we must make substantial investments in new product development whether internally or externally through licensing or acquisitions. Our failure to introduce new and innovative products in a timely manner would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Even if we are able to develop, manufacture and obtain regulatory approvals for our new products, the success of these products would depend upon market acceptance and adequate reimbursement. Levels of market acceptance for our new products could be affected by a number of factors, including:. • The availability of alternative products from our competitors;. • The price of our products relative to those of our competitors;. • The timing of our market entry;. • Our ability to market and distribute our products effectively;. • Market acceptance of our products; and. • Our ability to obtain adequate reimbursement.. 33. Table of Contents. The field of diagnostic medical imaging is dynamic, with new products, including equipment and agents, continually being developed and existing products continually being refined. Our own diagnostic imaging agents compete not only with other similarly administered imaging agents but also with imaging agents employed in different and often competing diagnostic modalities. New imaging agents in a given diagnostic modality may be developed that provide benefits superior to the then-dominant agent in that modality, resulting in commercial displacement. Similarly, changing perceptions about comparative efficacy and safety including, among other things, comparative radiation exposure, as well as changing availability of supply may favor one agent over another or one modality over another. In addition, new or revised appropriate use criteria developed by professional societies, to assist physicians and other health care providers in making appropriate imaging decisions for specific clinical conditions, can and have reduced the frequency of and demand for certain imaging modalities and imaging agents. To the extent there is technological obsolescence in any of our products that we manufacture, resulting in lower unit sales or decreased unit sales prices, we will have increased unit overhead allocable to the remaining market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The process of developing new drugs and obtaining regulatory approval is complex, time-consuming and costly, and the outcome is not certain.. We currently have three agents in development, two of which (flurpiridaz F 18 and LMI 1195) are currently in clinical development, while a third (LMI 1174) is in pre-clinical development. To obtain regulatory approval for these agents, we must conduct extensive human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials, as well as meet other rigorous regulatory requirements, as further described in Part I, Item 1. \"Business - Regulatory Matters.\" Satisfaction of all regulatory requirements typically takes many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. A number of other factors may cause significant delays in the completion of our clinical trials, including unexpected delays in the initiation of clinical sites, slower than projected enrollment, competition with ongoing clinical trials and scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians, regulatory requirements, limits on manufacturing capacity and failure of an agent to meet required standards for administration to humans. In addition, it may take longer than we project to achieve study endpoints and complete data analysis for a trial or we may decide to slow down the enrollment in a trial in order to conserve financial resources.. Our agents in development are also subject to the risks of failure inherent in drug development and testing. The results of preliminary studies do not necessarily predict clinical success, and larger and later stage clinical trials may not produce the same results as earlier stage trials. Sometimes, agents that have shown promising results in early clinical trials have subsequently suffered significant setbacks in later clinical trials. Agents in later stage clinical trials may fail to show desired safety and efficacy traits, despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. In addition, the data collected from clinical trials of our agents in development may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval, or regulators could interpret the data differently and less favorably than we do. Further, the design of a clinical trial can determine whether its results will support approval of a product, and flaws in the design of a clinical trial may not become apparent until the clinical trial is well advanced. Clinical trials of potential products often reveal that it is not practical or feasible to continue development efforts. Regulatory authorities may require us or our partners to conduct additional clinical testing, in which case we would have to expend additional time and resources. The approval process may also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in regulatory policy that occur prior to or during regulatory review. The failure to provide clinical and preclinical data that are adequate to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the regulatory authorities that our agents in development are safe and effective for their proposed use will delay or preclude approval and will prevent us from marketing those products.. We are not permitted to market our agents in development in the U.S. or other countries until we have received requisite regulatory approvals. For example, securing FDA approval for a new drug requires the submission of an NDA to the FDA for our agents in development. The NDA must include extensive nonclinical and clinical data and supporting information to establish the agent's safety and effectiveness for each indication. The NDA must also include significant information regarding the chemistry, manufacturing and controls for the product. The FDA review process can take many years to complete, and approval is never guaranteed. If a product is approved, the FDA may limit the indications for which the product may be marketed, require extensive warnings on the product labeling, impose restricted distribution programs, require expedited reporting of certain adverse events, or require costly ongoing requirements for post-marketing clinical studies and surveillance or other risk management measures to monitor the safety or efficacy of the agent. Markets outside of the U.S. also have requirements for approval of agents with which we must comply prior to marketing. Obtaining regulatory approval for marketing of an agent in one country does not ensure we will be able to obtain regulatory approval in other countries, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in other countries. Also, any regulatory approval of any of our products or agents in development, once obtained, may be withdrawn. Approvals might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all.. In our flurpiridaz F 18 Phase 3 program, in May 2015, we announced complete results from the 301 trial. Although flurpiridaz F 18 appeared to be well-tolerated from a safety perspective and outperformed SPECT in a highly statistically significant manner in the co-primary endpoint of sensitivity and in the secondary endpoints of image quality and diagnostic certainty, the agent did not meet its other co-primary endpoint of non-inferiority for identifying subjects without disease. In April 2017, we entered into the License. 34. Table of Contents. Agreement with GE Healthcare for the continued Phase 3 development and worldwide commercialization of flurpiridaz F 18. Under the License Agreement, GE Healthcare will, among other things, complete the worldwide development of flurpiridaz F 18 by conducting a second Phase 3 trial and pursue worldwide regulatory approvals. We cannot assure any particular outcome from GE Healthcare's continued Phase 3 development of the agent or from regulatory review of either our or their Phase 3 study of the agent, that any of the data generated in either our or their sponsored Phase 3 study will be sufficient to support an NDA approval, that GE Healthcare will only have to conduct the one additional Phase 3 clinical study prior to filing an NDA, or that flurpiridaz F 18 will ever be approved as a PET MPI imaging agent by the FDA. Similarly, we can give no assurance that we will be successful in either of our two new internal clinical development programs - DEFINITY for an EF indication and LMI 1195 for heart failure patient risk stratification. See Part I, Item 1. \"Business-Regulatory Matters-Food and Drug Laws.\" Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates or in receiving regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates may severely harm our business and delay or prevent us from being able to generate revenue from product sales.. Even if our agents in development proceed successfully through clinical trials and receive regulatory approval, there is no guarantee that an approved product can be manufactured in commercial quantities at a reasonable cost or that such a product will be successfully marketed or distributed. The burden associated with the marketing and distribution of products like ours is substantial. For example, rather than being manufactured at our own facilities, both flurpiridaz F 18 and LMI 1195 would require the creation of a complex, field-based network involving PET cyclotrons located at radiopharmacies where the agent would need to be manufactured and distributed rapidly to end-users, given the agent's 110-minute half-life. In addition, in the case of both flurpiridaz F 18 and LMI 1195, obtaining adequate reimbursement is critical, including not only coverage from Medicare, Medicaid, other government payors as well as private payors but also appropriate payment levels which adequately cover the substantially higher manufacturing and distribution costs associated with a PET agent in comparison to a Technetium-based agent. We can give no assurance even if either flurpiridaz F 18 or LMI 1195 obtains regulatory approval that a network of PET cyclotrons can be established or that adequate reimbursement can be secured to allow the approved agent or agents to become commercially successful.. Our future growth may depend on our ability to identify and in-license or acquire additional products, and if we do not successfully do so, or otherwise fail to integrate any new products into our operations, we may have limited growth opportunities and it could materially adversely affect our relationships with customers and/or result in significant impairment charges.. We are continuing to seek to acquire or in-license products, businesses or technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our business strategy. Future in-licenses or acquisitions, however, may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including:. • Exposure to unknown liabilities;. • Disruption of our business, customer base and diversion of our management's time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies;. • A reduction of our current financial resources;. • Difficulty or inability to secure financing to fund development activities for those acquired or in-licensed technologies;. • Incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; and. • Higher than expected acquisition and integration costs.. We may not have sufficient resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. In particular, we may compete with larger pharmaceutical companies and other competitors in our efforts to establish new collaborations and in-licensing opportunities. These competitors likely will have access to greater financial resources than we do and may have greater expertise in identifying and evaluating new opportunities. Furthermore, there may be overlap between our products or customers and the companies which we acquire that may create conflicts in relationships or other commitments detrimental to the integrated businesses. Additionally, the time between our expenditures to in-license or acquire new products, technologies or businesses and the subsequent generation of revenues from those acquired products, technologies or businesses (or the timing of revenue recognition related to licensing agreements and/or strategic collaborations) could cause fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period. Finally, if we devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or if we fail to realize the anticipated benefits of those efforts, we could incur significant impairment charges or other adverse financial consequences.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could develop and market products with features similar to our products, and demand for our products may decline.. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our commercial products and technologies and agents in development as well as successfully defending these patents and trade secrets against third party challenges, both in the U.S. and in foreign countries. We will only be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that we maintain the secrecy of our trade secrets and can enforce our valid patents and trademarks.. 35. Table of Contents. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. In addition, changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property and we may not receive the same degree of protection in every jurisdiction. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third party patents.. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example:. • We might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents, and we could lose our patent rights as a result;. • We might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions or our patent applications may not have been timely filed, and we could lose our patent rights as a result;. • Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;. • It is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in any further issued patents;. • Our issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable drugs, may not provide us with any protection from unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and may not provide us with any competitive advantages;. • Our patent applications or patents may be subject to interferences, oppositions, post-grant review, ex-parte re-examinations, inter-partes review or similar administrative proceedings;. • While we generally apply for patents in those countries where we intend to make, have made, use or sell patented products, we may not be able to accurately predict all of the countries where patent protection will ultimately be desirable and may be precluded from doing so at a later date;. • We may choose not to seek patent protection in certain countries where the actual cost outweighs the perceived benefit at a certain time;. • Patents issued in foreign jurisdictions may have different scopes of coverage as our U.S. patents and so our products may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the U.S.;. • We may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or. • The patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business.. Moreover, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. A third party may challenge the validity or enforceability of a patent even after its issuance by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the applicable foreign patent office. It is also uncertain how much protection, if any, will be afforded by our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court or in other proceedings, which may be brought in U.S. or non-U.S. jurisdictions to challenge the validity of a patent.. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, interferences, oppositions and related legal and administrative proceedings are costly, time consuming to pursue and result in diversion of resources. The outcome of these proceedings is uncertain and could significantly harm our business. If we are not able to defend the patents of our technologies and products, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from marketing products that directly compete with our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We will also rely on trade secrets and other know-how and proprietary information to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, but our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific partners and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors or other third parties. Enforcing a claim that a third party improperly obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. We rely on confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, consultants and other third parties and invention assignment agreements with our employees to protect our trade secrets and other know-how and proprietary information concerning our business. These confidentiality agreements may not prevent unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets and other know-how and proprietary information, and there can be no guarantee that an employee or an outside party will not make an unauthorized disclosure of our trade secrets, other technical know-how or proprietary information, or that we can detect such an unauthorized disclosure. We may not have adequate remedies for any unauthorized disclosure. This might happen intentionally or inadvertently. It is possible that a competitor will make use of that information, and that our competitive position will be compromised, in spite of any legal action we might take against persons making those unauthorized disclosures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 36. Table of Contents. We rely on our trademarks, trade names and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks, including DEFINITY, Cardiolite, TechneLite, Neurolite, Quadramet, Luminity, Miraluma and Lantheus Medical Imaging. We cannot assure you that any pending trademark applications will be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. If our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to re-brand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks.. We may be subject to claims that we have infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated the patent or other intellectual property rights of a third party. The outcome of any of these claims is uncertain and any unfavorable result could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to claims by third parties that we have infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights. While we believe that the products that we currently manufacture using our proprietary technology do not infringe upon or otherwise violate proprietary rights of other parties or that meritorious defenses would exist with respect to any assertions to the contrary, we cannot assure you that we would not be found to infringe on or otherwise violate the proprietary rights of others.. We may be subject to litigation over infringement claims regarding the products we manufacture or distribute. This type of litigation can be costly and time consuming and could divert management's attention and resources, generate significant expenses, damage payments (potentially including treble damages) or restrictions or prohibitions on our use of our technology, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, if we are found to be infringing on proprietary rights of others, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license (which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all), make substantial one-time or ongoing royalty payments, or cease making, using and/or selling the infringing products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We may be adversely affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control.. Our ability to attract and retain customers, invest in and grow our business and meet our financial obligations depends on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to numerous factors, including the prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control, such as the rate of unemployment, the number of uninsured persons in the U.S. and inflationary pressures. We cannot anticipate all the ways in which the current or future economic climate and financial market conditions could adversely impact our business. We are exposed to risks associated with reduced profitability and the potential financial instability of our customers, many of which may be adversely affected by volatile conditions in the financial markets. For example, unemployment and underemployment, and the resultant loss of insurance, may decrease the demand for healthcare services and pharmaceuticals. If fewer patients are seeking medical care because they do not have insurance coverage, our customers may experience reductions in revenues, profitability and/or cash flow that could lead them to modify, delay or cancel orders for our products. If customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. This, in turn, could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. To the extent prevailing economic conditions result in fewer procedures being performed, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations or financial position.. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we derived approximately 13%, 15% and 20% of our revenues from outside the fifty United States, respectively. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including:. • Less stable political and economic environments and changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, including on-going political and military tensions on the Korean peninsula which could adversely affect our alternative microbubble formulation program at SBL;. • Entering into or renewing commercial agreements with international governments or provincial authorities or entities directly or indirectly controlled by such governments or authorities, such as our Chinese partner Double-Crane Pharmaceutical Company;. • International customers which are agencies or institutions of foreign governments;. • Local business practices which may be in conflict with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.K. Bribery Act;. • Currency fluctuations;. 37. Table of Contents. • Potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting our ability to repatriate profits;. • Unfavorable labor regulations;. • Greater difficulties in relying on non-U.S. courts to enforce either local or U.S. laws, particularly with respect to intellectual property;. • Greater potential for intellectual property piracy;. • Greater difficulties in managing and staffing non-U.S. operations;. • The need to ensure compliance with the numerous in-country and international regulatory and legal requirements applicable to our business in each of these jurisdictions and to maintain an effective compliance program to ensure compliance with these requirements;. • Changes in public attitudes about the perceived safety of nuclear facilities;. • Changes in trade policies, regulatory requirements and other barriers;. • Civil unrest or other catastrophic events; and. • Longer payment cycles of non-U.S. customers and difficulty collecting receivables in non-U.S. jurisdictions.. These factors are beyond our control. The realization of any of these or other risks associated with operating outside the fifty United States could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. As our international exposure increases and as we execute our strategy of international expansion, these risks may intensify.. We face currency and other risks associated with international sales.. We generate revenue from export sales, as well as from operations conducted outside the fifty United States. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, the net impact of foreign currency changes on transactions was a gain of $0.3 million and losses of $0.9 million and $1.8 million, respectively. Operations outside the U.S. expose us to risks including fluctuations in currency values, trade restrictions, tariff and trade regulations, U.S. export controls, non - U.S. tax laws, shipping delays and economic and political instability. For example, violations of U.S. export controls, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, could result in fines, other civil or criminal penalties and the suspension or loss of export privileges which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows.. With the exception of our United Kingdom subsidiary, the functional currencies of our International Segment subsidiaries are the respective local currencies of each entity. Exchange rates between some of these currencies and the U.S. Dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. Historically, we have not used derivative financial instruments or other financial instruments to hedge against economic exposures related to foreign currencies.. Many of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. are, either directly or indirectly, with governmental entities, and we could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws outside the U.S.. The FCPA, the Bribery Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. It also requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. are, either directly or indirectly, with governmental entities and are therefore subject to the FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, the provisions of the Bribery Act extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and are more onerous than the FCPA in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non-exemption of facilitation payments and penalties.. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of those violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 38. Table of Contents. Our business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of our information technology infrastructure, and failures of this infrastructure could harm our operations.. To remain competitive in our industry, we must employ information technologies to support manufacturing processes, quality processes, distribution, R&D and regulatory applications and that capture, manage and analyze large streams of data in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. We rely extensively on technology, some of which is managed by third-party service providers, to allow the concurrent conduct of work sharing around the world. As with all information technology, our equipment and infrastructure age and become subject to increasing maintenance and repair and our systems generally are vulnerable to potential damage or interruptions from fires, natural disasters, power outages, blackouts, machinery breakdown, telecommunications failures and other unexpected events, as well as to break-ins, sabotage, increasingly sophisticated intentional acts of vandalism or cyber threats which, due to the nature of such attacks, may remain undetected for a period of time. As these threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to enhance our information security measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Given the extensive reliance of our business on technology, any substantial disruption or resulting loss of data that is not avoided or corrected by our backup measures could harm our business, reputation, operations and financial condition.. We may be limited in our ability to utilize, or may not be able to utilize, net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our future tax liability.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal income tax loss carryforwards of $233.5 million, which will begin to expire in 2030 and will completely expire in 2037. We may be limited in our ability to use these tax loss carryforwards to reduce our future U.S. federal income tax liabilities if we were to experience another \"ownership change\" as specified in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code including if we were to issue a certain amount of equity securities, certain of our stockholders were to sell shares of our common stock, or we were to enter into certain strategic transactions.. We may not be able to hire or retain the number of qualified personnel, particularly scientific, medical and sales personnel, required for our business, which would harm the development and sales of our products and limit our ability to grow.. Competition in our industry for highly skilled scientific, healthcare and sales personnel is intense. Although we have not had any material difficulty in the past in hiring or retaining qualified personnel, if we are unable to retain our existing personnel, or attract and train additional qualified personnel, either because of competition in our industry for these personnel or because of insufficient financial resources, then our growth may be limited and it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we lose the services of our key personnel, our business could be adversely affected.. Our success is substantially dependent upon the performance, contributions and expertise of our chief executive officer, executive leadership and senior management team. Mary Anne Heino, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and other members of our executive leadership and senior management team play a significant role in generating new business and retaining existing customers. We have an employment agreement with Ms. Heino and a limited number of other individuals on our executive leadership team, although we cannot prevent them from terminating their employment with us. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers. While we have experienced both voluntary and involuntary turnover on our executive leadership team, to date we have been able to attract new, qualified individuals to lead our company and key functional areas. Our inability to retain our existing executive leadership and senior management team, maintain an appropriate internal succession program or attract and retain additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which may limit our financial and operating activities and may adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $272.9 million of total principal indebtedness remaining under our five - year secured term loan facility, which matures on June 30, 2022 (the \"2017 Term Facility\") and availability under our Revolving Facility (the \"2017 Revolving Facility\" and, together with the 2017 Term Facility, the \"2017 Facility\") of $75.0 million. Our substantial indebtedness and any future indebtedness we incur could:. • Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on and principal of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes;. • Make it more difficult for us to satisfy and comply with our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness, namely the payment of interest and principal;. • Make it more difficult to refinance the outstanding indebtedness;. • Subject us to increased sensitivity to interest rate increases;. 39. Table of Contents. • Make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, adverse industry or company conditions or catastrophic external events;. • Limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures;. • Reduce our flexibility in planning for or responding to changing business, industry and economic conditions; and. • Place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have relatively less debt than we have.. In addition, our substantial level of indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all, for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. Our liquidity needs could vary significantly and may be affected by general economic conditions, industry trends, performance and many other factors not within our control.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations.. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, including interest and principal payments, our credit ratings could be downgraded, and we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, entering into additional corporate collaborations or licensing arrangements for one or more of our products or agents in development, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, licensed or partnered, or, if sold, licensed or partnered, of the timing of the transactions and the amount of proceeds realized from those transactions, that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or that additional financing would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Furthermore, our ability to refinance would depend upon the condition of the financial and credit markets. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or on a timely basis, would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may incur more debt, which could exacerbate the risks described above.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future subject to the limitations contained in the agreements governing our debt, including the 2017 Facility. Although these agreements restrict us and our restricted subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. For example, we are generally permitted to incur certain indebtedness, including indebtedness arising in the ordinary course of business, indebtedness among restricted subsidiaries and us and indebtedness relating to hedging obligations. See Part II, Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - External Sources of Liquidity.\" If we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks that we and they now face as a result of our high leverage could intensify. In addition, 2017 Facility will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under the agreements.. Our 2017 Facility contains restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business.. Our 2017 Facility contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. • Maintain net leverage above certain specified levels;. • Incur additional debt;. • Pay dividends or make other distributions;. • Redeem stock;. • Issue stock of subsidiaries;. • Make certain investments;. • Create liens;. • Enter into transactions with affiliates; and. • Merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets.. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the 2017 Facility. We may also be unable to take advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our indebtedness.. 40. Table of Contents. U.S. credit markets may impact our ability to obtain financing or increase the cost of future financing, including interest rate fluctuations based on macroeconomic conditions that are beyond our control.. During periods of volatility and disruption in the U.S., European, or global credit markets, obtaining additional or replacement financing may be more difficult and the cost of issuing new debt or replacing our 2017 Facility could be higher than under our current 2017 Facility. Higher cost of new debt may limit our ability to have cash on hand for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. Additionally, our 2017 Facility has variable interest rates. By its nature, a variable interest rate will move up or down based on changes in the economy and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. If interest rates increase, our interest expense could increase, affecting earnings and reducing cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions.. Our stock price could fluctuate significantly, which could cause the value of your investment to decline, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price.. Securities markets worldwide have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including:. • Market conditions in the broader stock market;. • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results;. • Issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations;. • Investor perceptions of us and the medical technology and pharmaceutical industries;. • Sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock;. • Acquisitions or introductions of new products or services by us or our competitors;. • Additions or departures of key personnel;. • Regulatory or political developments;. • Loss of intellectual property protections;. • Litigation and governmental investigations; and. • Changing economic conditions.. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our stock price could also decline.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future.. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future, to repay indebtedness and to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not intend to pay any dividends to holders of our common stock and the agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities limit our ability to pay dividends. As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our common stock, if any, will be your only source of gain on an investment in our common stock. See Part II, Item 5. \"Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities - Dividend Policy\".. 41. Table of Contents"
