[1] "ITEM 1A.  -  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with evaluating the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Certain statements in \"Risk Factors\" are forward-looking statements. See \"Item 7  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Related to Our Business. Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of downturns in the economy.. Consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or corporate spending on conventions and business travel could be driven by many factors, such as: perceived or actual general economic conditions; any further weaknesses in the job or housing market, additional credit market disruptions; high energy, fuel and food costs; the increased cost of travel; the potential for bank failures; perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth; fears of recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy; or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. These factors could reduce consumer and corporate demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, thus imposing additional limits on pricing and harming our operations.. Our business is sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel. Acts of terrorism, regional political events and developments in the conflicts in certain countries could cause severe disruptions in air travel that reduce the number of visitors to our facilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. Only a small amount of our business is and will be generated by local residents. Most of our customers travel to reach our Macao, Singapore, Las Vegas and Pennsylvania properties. Acts of terrorism may severely disrupt domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease in customer visits to Macao, Singapore, Las Vegas and Pennsylvania, including our properties. Regional political events, including those resulting in travelers perceiving areas as unstable or an unwillingness of governments to grant visas, regional conflicts or an outbreak of hostilities or war could have a similar effect on domestic and international travel. Management cannot predict the extent to which disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any further terrorist acts, regional political events, regional conflicts or outbreak of hostilities or war would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 24. Table of Contents. We are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations that govern our operations in any jurisdiction where we operate may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are required to obtain and maintain licenses from various jurisdictions in order to operate certain aspects of our business, and we are subject to extensive background investigations and suitability standards in our gaming business. We also will become subject to regulation in any other jurisdiction where we choose to operate in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain new licenses or renew any of our existing licenses, or that if such licenses are obtained, that such licenses will not be conditioned, suspended or revoked; and the loss, denial or non-renewal of any of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our gaming operations and the ownership of our securities are subject to extensive regulation by the Nevada Commission, the Nevada Board and the CCLGLB. The Nevada Gaming Authorities have broad authority with respect to licensing and registration of our business entities and individuals investing in or otherwise involved with us.. Although we currently are registered with, and LVSLLC and VCR currently hold gaming licenses issued by, the Nevada Gaming Authorities, these authorities may, among other things, revoke the gaming license of any corporate entity or the registration of a registered corporation or any entity registered as a holding company of a corporate licensee for violations of gaming regulations.. In addition, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may, under certain circumstances, revoke the license or finding of suitability of any officer, director, controlling person, stockholder, noteholder or key employee of a licensed or registered entity. If our gaming licenses were revoked for any reason, the Nevada Gaming Authorities could require the closing of our casinos, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations or licenses are significant. Any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. A similar dynamic exists in all jurisdictions where we operate and a regulatory action against one of our operating entities in any gaming jurisdiction could impact our operations in other gaming jurisdictions where we do business. For a more complete description of the gaming regulatory requirements that have an effect on our business, see \"Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulation and Licensing.\". We are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\"), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We entered into a comprehensive civil administrative settlement with the SEC on April 7, 2016, and a non-prosecution agreement with the Department of Justice (the \"DOJ\") on January 19, 2017, which resolve all inquiries related to these government investigations and include ongoing reporting obligations to the SEC through June 2018 and to the DOJ through January 2020. Any violation of the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. Recently, U.S. governmental authorities have evidenced an increased focus on the gaming industry and compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations. For instance, we are subject to regulation under the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, commonly known as the \"Bank Secrecy Act\" (\"BSA\"), which, among other things, requires us to report to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (\"FinCEN\") certain currency transactions in excess of applicable thresholds and certain suspicious activities where we know, suspect or have reason to suspect such transactions involve funds from illegal activity or are intended to violate  federal law or  regulations or are designed to evade reporting requirements or have no business or lawful purpose. In addition, under the BSA, we are subject to various other rules and regulations involving reporting, recordkeeping and retention. Our compliance with the BSA is subject to periodic audits by the U.S. Treasury Department, and we may be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines, if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. We are also subject to similar regulations in Singapore and Macao, as well as regulations set forth by the gaming authorities in the areas in which we operate. Any such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the. 25. Table of Contents. future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations, or any accusations of money laundering or regulatory investigations into possible money laundering activities, by any of our properties, employees or customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Because we are currently dependent primarily upon our properties in three markets for all of our cash flow, we are subject to greater risks than competitors with more operating properties or that operate in more markets.. We currently do not have material operations other than our Macao, Singapore and Las Vegas properties. As a result, we are primarily dependent upon these properties for all of our cash.. Given that our operations are currently conducted primarily at properties in Macao, Singapore and Las Vegas and that a large portion of our planned development is in Macao, we will be subject to greater degrees of risk than competitors with more operating properties or that operate in more markets. The risks to which we will have a greater degree of exposure include the following:. • local economic and competitive conditions;. • inaccessibility due to inclement weather, road construction or closure of primary access routes;. • decline in air passenger traffic due to higher ticket costs or fears concerning air travel;. • changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations;. • natural or man-made disasters, outbreaks of infectious diseases, terrorist activity or war;. • changes in the availability of water; and. • a decline in the number of visitors to Macao, Singapore or Las Vegas.. We depend on the continued services of key managers and employees. If we do not retain our key personnel or attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business will suffer.. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the services of our senior management team, including Sheldon G. Adelson and our other executive officers. The loss of Mr. Adelson's services or the services of our other senior managers, or the inability to attract and retain additional senior management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The interests of our principal stockholder in our business may be different from yours.. Mr. Adelson, his family members and trusts and other entities established for the benefit of Mr. Adelson and/or his family members (collectively our \"Principal Stockholder's family\") beneficially own approximately 55% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017. Accordingly, Mr. Adelson exercises significant influence over our business policies and affairs, including the composition of our Board of Directors and any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our articles of incorporation and the approval of a merger or sale of substantially all of our assets. The concentration of ownership may also delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of Mr. Adelson. The interests of Mr. Adelson may differ from your interests.. We are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries.. We are a parent company with limited business operations of our own. Our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We conduct most of our business operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties. Our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. Our subsidiaries' payments to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations. In addition, our subsidiaries' debt instruments and other agreements limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us. We expect that future debt instruments for the financing of future developments will contain similar restrictions.. 26. Table of Contents. The terms of our debt instruments and our current debt service obligations and substantial indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to timely refinance existing indebtedness, finance additional growth, respond to changes or take some actions that may otherwise be in our best interests.. Our current debt instruments contain, and any future debt instruments likely will contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to:. • incur additional debt, including providing guarantees or credit support;. • incur liens securing indebtedness or other obligations;. • dispose of assets;. • make certain acquisitions;. • pay dividends or make distributions and make other restricted payments, such as purchasing equity interests, repurchasing junior indebtedness or making investments in third parties;. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions;. • engage in any new businesses;. • issue preferred stock; and. • enter into transactions with our stockholders and our affiliates.. In addition, our Macao, Singapore and U.S. credit agreements contain various financial covenants. See \"Item 8  -  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  -  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  -  Note 8  -  Long-Term Debt\" for further description of these covenants.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $9.34 billion of long-term debt outstanding, net of original issue discount and deferred offering costs (excluding those costs related to our revolving facilities). This indebtedness could have important consequences to us. For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt service obligations;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;. • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available for our operations and development projects;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industry in which we operate;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. • subject us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates as substantially all of our debt is, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest. Based on variable-rate debt levels as of December 31, 2017, a hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates that we are subject to would cause our annual interest cost to change by approximately $98 million.. Subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our debt is secured by liens on substantially all of our assets, except for our equity interests in our subsidiaries.. Our ability to timely refinance and replace our indebtedness in the future will depend upon general economic and credit market conditions, approval required by local government regulators, adequate liquidity in the global credit markets, the particular circumstances of the gaming industry and prevalent regulations and our cash flow and operations, in each case as evaluated at the time of such potential refinancing or replacement. For example, we have a principal amount of $1.27 billion, $2.38 billion, $1.46 billion and $2.28 billion in long-term debt maturing during the years ending December 31, 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, respectively. If we are unable to refinance or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments, or reduce dividend payments. There. 27. Table of Contents. is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements.. We may attempt to arrange additional financing to fund the remainder of our planned, and any future, development projects. If such additional financing is necessary, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all the financing required for the construction and opening of these projects on suitable terms, if at all.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We report transactions in the functional currencies of our reporting entities. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we translate revenues and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period, which subjects us to foreign currency translation risks. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the functional currencies of our foreign operations could have an adverse effect on our U.S. dollar financial results.. In certain instances, our entities whose functional currency is the U.S dollar may enter, and will continue to enter, into transactions that are denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars. At the date that such transaction is recognized, each asset, liability, revenue, expense, gain or loss arising from the transaction is measured and recorded in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at that date. At each balance sheet date, recorded monetary balances denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars are adjusted to U.S. dollars using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date, with gains or losses recorded in other income (expense), which subjects us to foreign currency transaction risks.. We are a parent company whose primary source of cash is distributions from our subsidiaries (see \" -  We are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries.\"). Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/SGD exchange rate and/or the U.S. dollar/HKD exchange rate could have a material adverse effect on the amount of dividends and distributions from our Singapore and Macao operations.. On July 21, 2005, the People's Bank of China announced that the renminbi will no longer be pegged to the U.S. dollar, but will be allowed to float in a band (and, to a limited extent, increase in value) against a basket of foreign currencies. We cannot assure you that the Hong Kong dollar will continue to be pegged to the U.S. dollar and the Macao pataca will continue to be pegged to the Hong Kong dollar or that the current peg rate for these currencies will remain at the same level. The floating of the renminbi and possible changes to the pegs of the Macao pataca and/or the Hong Kong dollar may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. Any change in such exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations and on our ability to make payments on certain of our debt instruments. We do not currently hedge for foreign currency risk related to the Hong Kong dollar, renminbi or pataca; however, we maintain a significant amount of our operating funds in the same currencies in which we have obligations, thereby reducing our exposure to currency fluctuations.. We extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players.. We conduct our gaming activities on a credit and cash basis. Any such credit we extend is unsecured. Table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than players who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 15.4%, 34.1% and 59.8% of our table games drop at our Macao properties, Marina Bay Sands and our Las Vegas properties, respectively, was from credit-based wagering, while table games play at our Pennsylvania property was primarily conducted on a cash basis. We extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. These large receivables could have a significant impact on our results of operations if deemed uncollectible.. While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a \"marker,\" and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions. 28. Table of Contents. around the world, including jurisdictions our gaming customers may come from, may determine, or have determined, that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from courts in the U.S. and elsewhere are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations.. In particular, we expect that our Macao operations will be able to enforce gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macao. To the extent our Macao gaming customers and junket operators are from other jurisdictions, our Macao operations may not have access to a forum in which it will be possible to collect all gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and our Macao operations may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. Moreover, under applicable law, our Macao operations remain obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers.. It is also possible that our Singapore operations may not be able to collect gaming debts because, among other reasons, courts of certain jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts. To the extent our Singapore gaming customers' assets are situated in such jurisdictions, our Singapore operations may not be able to take enforcement action against such assets to facilitate collection of gaming receivables.. Even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows.. Win rates for our gaming operations depend on a variety of factors, some beyond our control, and the winnings of our gaming customers could exceed our casino winnings.. The gaming industry is characterized by an element of chance. In addition to the element of chance, win rates are also affected by other factors, including players' skill and experience, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the spread of table limits, the volume of bets played and the amount of time played. Our gaming profits are mainly derived from the difference between our casino winnings and the casino winnings of our gaming customers. Since there is an inherent element of chance in the gaming industry, we do not have full control over our winnings or the winnings of our gaming customers. If the winnings of our gaming customers exceed our winnings, we may record a loss from our gaming operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We face the risk of fraud and cheating.. Our gaming customers may attempt or commit fraud or cheat in order to increase winnings. Acts of fraud or cheating could involve the use of counterfeit chips or other tactics, possibly in collusion with our employees. Internal acts of cheating could also be conducted by employees through collusion with dealers, surveillance staff, floor managers or other casino or gaming area staff. Failure to discover such acts or schemes in a timely manner could result in losses in our gaming operations. In addition, negative publicity related to such schemes could have an adverse effect on our reputation, potentially causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. A failure to establish and protect our IP rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We endeavor to establish, protect and enforce our IP, including our trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade secrets and other confidential and proprietary information. There can be no assurance, however, that the steps we take to protect our IP will be sufficient. If a third party successfully challenges our trademarks, we could have difficulty maintaining exclusive rights. If a third party claims that we have infringed, currently infringe, or could in the future infringe upon its IP rights, we may need to cease use of such IP, defend our rights or take other steps. In addition, if third parties violate their obligations to us to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information or there is a security breach or lapse, or if third parties misappropriate or infringe upon our IP, our business may be affected. Our inability to adequately obtain, maintain or defend our IP rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 29. Table of Contents. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain the same insurance coverage, or the scope of insurance coverage we deem necessary, in the future.. We have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our properties in operation, as well as those in the course of construction, with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary in their breadth and scope. Market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. Certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, or certain liabilities may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. As a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. In addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. As a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property.. Our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements.. Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of SCL.. In November 2009, our subsidiary, SCL, listed its ordinary shares on The Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the \"SCL Offering\"). We currently own 70.1% of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of SCL. As a result of SCL having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of SCL may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of SCL. Decisions that could have different implications for us and SCL, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with SCL, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest.. Changes in tax laws and regulations could impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to taxation and regulation by various government agencies, primarily in Macao, Singapore and the U.S. (federal, state and local levels). From time to time, U.S. federal, state, local and foreign governments make substantive changes to income tax, indirect tax and gaming tax rules and the application of these rules, which could result in higher taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law or interpretation. In particular, government agencies may make changes that could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-U.S. operations. Like most U.S. companies, our effective income tax rate reflects the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the U.S. is taxed at local rates, which are often lower than U.S. tax rates.. In December 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") also referred to as \"U.S. tax reform.\" The Act made significant changes to U.S. income tax laws including lowering the U.S. corporate tax rate to 21% effective beginning in 2018 and transitioning from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system resulting in dividends from our foreign subsidiaries not being subject to U.S. income tax and creating a one-time tax on previously unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries. These changes are complex and will require the Internal Revenue Service to issue interpretations and implementing regulations that may significantly impact how we will apply the Act and impact our results of operations in the period issued.. If changes in tax laws and regulations were to significantly increase the tax rates on gaming revenues or non-U.S. income, or if there are significant interpretations and implementing regulations issued related to the Act, these changes could increase our tax expense and liability, and therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our effective income tax rate, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Natural or man-made disasters, an outbreak of highly infectious disease, terrorist activity or war could adversely affect the number of visitors to our facilities and disrupt our operations, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. So called \"Acts of God,\" such as typhoons, particularly in Macao, and other natural disasters, man-made disasters, outbreaks of highly infectious diseases, terrorist activity or war may result in decreases in travel to and from, and. 30. Table of Contents. economic activity in, areas in which we operate, and may adversely affect the number of visitors to our properties. Any of these events also may disrupt our ability to staff our business adequately, could generally disrupt our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we have insurance coverage with respect to some of these events, we cannot assure you that any such coverage will be sufficient to indemnify us fully against all direct and indirect costs, including any loss of business that could result from substantial damage to, or partial or complete destruction of, any of our properties.. Our failure to maintain the integrity of our customer or company data, including as a result of breaches of our cybersecurity systems and measures, could degrade our ability to conduct our business operations, delay our ability to recognize revenue, compromise the integrity of our business and services, result in significant data losses and the theft of our IP, damage our reputation, expose us to liability to third parties, regulatory fines and penalties, and require us to incur significant costs to maintain the security of our network and data.. We face global cybersecurity threats, which may range from uncoordinated individual attempts to sophisticated and targeted measures directed at us. Cyber-attacks and security breaches may include, but are not limited to, attempts to access information, including customer and company information, computer malware such as viruses, denial of service, ransomware attacks that encrypt, exfiltrate, or otherwise render data unusable or unavailable in an effort to extort money or other consideration as a condition to purportedly returning the data to a usable form, operator errors or misuse, or inadvertent releases of data, and other forms of electronic security breaches.. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services. We also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations. The integrity and protection of that customer and company data are important to us. Our collection of such customer and company data is subject to extensive regulation by private groups such as the payment card industry as well as domestic and foreign governmental authorities, including gaming authorities. If a sophisticated cyber event occurs, our systems may be unable to satisfy applicable regulations or employee and customer expectations.. In addition, we have experienced a sophisticated criminal cybersecurity attack in the past, including a breach of our information technology systems in which customer and company information was compromised and certain company data may have been destroyed, and we may experience additional cybersecurity attacks in the future, potentially with more frequency or sophistication. Our information systems and records, including those we maintain with our third-party service providers, as well as the systems of other third parties that share data with us under contractual agreements, may be subject to cyber-attacks and security breaches, system failures, computer malware, including viruses, denial of service, ransomware attacks that encrypt, exfiltrate, or otherwise render data unusable or unavailable in an effort to extort money or other consideration as a condition to purportedly returning the data to a usable form, operator errors or misuse, or inadvertent releases of data. Our third-party information system service providers and other third parties that share data with us pursuant to contractual agreements face risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations.. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider or other third party that shares data with us pursuant to contractual agreement could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations and management team and result in remediation expenses (including liability for stolen assets or information, repairing system damage and offering incentives to customers or business partners to maintain their relationships after an attack) and regulatory fines, penalties and corrective actions, or lawsuits by regulators, third-party service providers, third parties that share data with us pursuant to contractual agreement and/or consumers whose data is or may be impacted. Such theft, loss or fraudulent use could also result in litigation by shareholders alleging that our protections against cyber-attacks were insufficient, that our response to an attack was faulty or that insufficient care was taken in ensuring that we were able to comply with cybersecurity, privacy or data protection regulations, protect data, identify risks and attacks, or respond to and recover from a cyber-attack, or by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks. In addition, we may incur increased cybersecurity protection costs that may include organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees and engaging third-party experts and consultants. There can be no assurance that the insurance the company has in place relating to cybersecurity risks will be sufficient in the event of a major cybersecurity event. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 31. Table of Contents. There are significant risks associated with any future construction projects, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from these planned facilities.. Any future construction projects will entail significant risks. Construction activity requires us to obtain qualified contractors and subcontractors, the availability of which may be uncertain. Construction projects are subject to cost overruns and delays caused by events outside of our control or, in certain cases, our contractors' control, such as shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and unavailability of construction materials or equipment. Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite materials, licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from governmental or regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay, jeopardize, prevent the construction or opening of our projects, or otherwise affect the design and features. Construction contractors or counterparties for our current projects may be required to bear certain cost overruns for which they are contractually liable, and if such counterparties are unable to meet their obligations, we may incur increased costs for such developments. See also \" -  Risks Associated with Our International Operations  -  VML may have financial and other obligations to foreign workers managed by its contractors under government labor quotas.\" In addition, the number of ongoing projects and their locations throughout the world present unique challenges and risks to our management structure. If our management is unable to manage successfully our worldwide construction projects, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The anticipated costs and completion dates for our current projects will be based on budgets, designs, development and construction documents and schedule estimates that will be prepared with the assistance of architects and other construction development consultants and that are subject to change as the design, development and construction documents are finalized and as actual construction work is performed. A failure to complete our projects on budget or on schedule may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities.. We have incurred and will continue to incur costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. Under these and other environmental requirements, we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our properties and may be held responsible to governmental entities or third parties, as an owner or operator, for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. These laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our properties.. Risks Associated with Our International Operations. We will stop generating any gaming revenues from our Macao operations if we cannot secure an extension of our subconcession in 2022 or if the Macao government exercises its redemption right.. Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022. Unless our subconcession is extended, all of VML's casino premises and gaming-related equipment will be transferred automatically to the Macao government on that date without compensation to us and we will cease to generate gaming revenues from these operations. Beginning on December 26, 2017, the Macao government may redeem the subconcession agreement by providing us at least one-year prior notice. In the event the Macao government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of this compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by The Venetian Macao during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our subconcession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. We also cannot assure you that if our subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues.. Our Macao subconcession can be terminated under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Macao government has the right, after consultation with Galaxy, to unilaterally terminate our subconcession in the event of VML's serious non-compliance with its basic obligations under the subconcession and applicable Macao. 32. Table of Contents. laws. Upon termination of our subconcession, our casinos and gaming-related equipment would automatically be transferred to the Macao government without compensation to us and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. The loss of our subconcession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in Macao, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. For a more complete description of the Macao gaming regulatory requirements, see \"Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulation and Licensing  -  Macao Concession and Our Subconcession.\". Our Singapore concession can be terminated under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Development Agreement between MBS and the STB contains events of default that could permit the STB to terminate the agreement without compensation to us. If the Development Agreement is terminated, we could lose our right to operate the Marina Bay Sands and our investment in Marina Bay Sands could be lost.. For a more complete description of the Singapore gaming regulatory requirements, see \"Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulation and Licensing  -  Development Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board.\". The number of visitors to Macao, particularly visitors from mainland China, may decline or travel to Macao may be disrupted.. Our VIP and mass market gaming customers typically come from nearby destinations in Asia, including mainland China, Hong Kong, South Korea and Japan. Increasingly, a significant number of gaming customers come to our casinos from mainland China. Any slowdown in economic growth or changes of China's current restrictions on travel and currency movements could further disrupt the number of visitors from mainland China to our casinos in Macao as well as the amounts they are willing and able to spend while at our properties.. Policies and measures adopted from time to time by the Chinese government include restrictions imposed on exit visas granted to residents of mainland China for travel to Macao and Hong Kong. These measures have, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to Macao from mainland China, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in Macao.. Our Macao and Singapore operations face intense competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The hotel, resort and casino businesses are highly competitive. Our Macao operations currently compete with numerous other casinos located in Macao. Our competitors have announced additional Macao facilities with planned opening dates in 2018. Increasing capacity of hotel rooms in Macao could add to the competitive dynamic of the market.. Our Macao and Singapore operations will also compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in Asia, including Malaysia, Philippines, Australia, Cambodia and elsewhere in the world, including Las Vegas, as well as online gaming and cruise ships that offer gaming. Our operations also face increased competition from new developments in Malaysia, Australia and South Korea. In addition, certain countries have legalized, and others may in the future legalize, casino gaming, including Japan, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.. The proliferation of gaming venues, especially in Southeast Asia, could have a significant and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Macao and Singapore governments could grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We hold a subconcession under one of only six gaming concessions and subconcessions authorized by the Macao government to operate casinos in Macao. No additional concessions or subconcessions have been granted since 2002; however, if the Macao government were to allow additional gaming operators in Macao through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We hold one of two licenses granted by the Singapore government to operate a casino in Singapore. As of March 1, 2017, there are no statutory restrictions preventing the Singapore government from granting additional casino licenses. 33. Table of Contents. to any party. If the Singapore government were to license additional casinos, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We compete for limited management and labor resources in Macao and Singapore, and policies of those governments may also affect our ability to employ imported managers or labor.. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and motivate skilled managers and employees at our properties. The Macao government requires that we only hire Macao residents in our casinos for certain employee roles, including as dealers. In addition, we are required in Macao to obtain visas and work permits for managers and employees we seek to employ from other countries. There is significant competition in Macao and Singapore for managers and employees with the skills required to perform the services we offer and competition for these individuals in Macao is likely to increase as other competitors expand their operations.. We may have to recruit managers and employees from other countries to adequately staff and manage our properties and certain Macao government policies affect our ability to hire non-resident managers and employees in certain job classifications. Despite our coordination with the Macao labor and immigration authorities to assure that our management and labor needs are satisfied, we may not be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified managers or employees for our operations or the Macao labor and immigration authorities may not grant us the necessary visas or work permits.. If we are unable to obtain, attract, retain and train skilled managers and employees, and obtain any required visas or work permits for our skilled managers and employees, our ability to adequately manage and staff our existing properties and planned development projects could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Conducting business in Macao and Singapore has certain political and economic risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations in Macao include The Venetian Macao, Sands Cotai Central, The Parisian Macao, The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao and Sands Macao. We also own and operate the Marina Bay Sands in Singapore. Accordingly, our business development plans, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by significant political, social and economic developments in Macao and Singapore, and by changes in policies of the governments or changes in laws and regulations or their interpretations. Our operations in Macao and Singapore are also exposed to the risk of changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies based in those countries. Jurisdictional tax laws and regulations may also be subject to amendment or different interpretation and implementation, thereby having an adverse effect on our profitability after tax. These changes may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Current Macao and Singapore laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions and licenses are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. We believe that our organizational structure and operations are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations of Macao and Singapore. These laws and regulations are complex and a court or an administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue regulations, which differs from our interpretation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, our activities in Macao and Singapore are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, which may have a material adverse effect on our long-term business strategy and operations. Macao and Singapore laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues.. On October 6, 2014, the Macao government approved smoking control legislation, which prohibits smoking in casinos. The legislation, in force through December 31, 2017, permitted casinos to maintain designated smoking areas of up to 50% of the areas opened to the public, as long as such areas complied with certain conditions, namely to be located within restricted access areas. Pursuant to an amendment to the legislation, in force as of January 1, 2018, the said ratio no longer applies and a new ratio is required to be determined by the Dispatch of the Secretary for Social. 34. Table of Contents. Affairs and Culture; however, the ratio has not yet been issued and may be issued at any time. Such legislation may deter potential gaming customers who are smokers from frequenting casinos in jurisdictions with smoking bans such as Macao. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future. We cannot predict the future likelihood or outcome of similar legislation or referendums in other jurisdictions where we operate or the magnitude of any decrease in revenues as a result of such regulations, though any smoking ban could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are currently not required to pay corporate income taxes on our casino gaming operations in Macao. Additionally, we currently have an agreement with the Macao government that provides for a fixed annual payment that is a substitution for a 12% tax otherwise due from VML's shareholders on dividends distributed from our Macao gaming operations. These tax arrangements expire at the end of 2018.. We have had the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in Macao, which exempts us from paying the 12% corporate income tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games. This exemption does not apply to our non-gaming activities. We will continue to benefit from this tax exemption through the end of 2018. In December 2017, VML requested an additional income tax exemption for either an additional 5-year period or through June 26, 2022, the date our subconcession agreement expires. Additionally, we entered into an agreement with the Macao government in May 2014, effective through the end of 2018 that provides for an annual payment that is a substitution for a 12% tax otherwise due from VML shareholders on dividend distributions paid from VML gaming profits. We intend to request an additional agreement with the Macao government to correspond to the income tax exemption for gaming operations; however, there is no certainty that either of these tax arrangements will be extended beyond their expiration dates. If the arrangements are not extended, a 12% tax would be due on either earnings or distributions from earnings generated after 2018, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are dependent upon gaming junket operators for a portion of our gaming revenues in Macao.. Junket operators, which promote gaming and draw VIP patrons to casinos, are responsible for a portion of our gaming revenues in Macao. With the increased number of gaming facilities in Macao, the competition for relationships with junket operators has increased. Our gaming revenue associated with junket operators is in decline and may continue to decline in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain, or grow, our relationships with junket operators. If we are unable to maintain or grow our relationships with junket operators, or if the junket operators experience financial difficulties or are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our VIP patrons, our ability to grow our gaming revenues will be hampered.. If junket operators attempt to negotiate changes to our operational agreements, including higher commissions, it could result in higher costs for us, loss of business to a competitor or loss of relationships with junket operators. Given regulatory requirements and certain economic and other factors occurring in the region, junket operators may encounter difficulties in attracting patrons to come to Macao, and such junket operators may experience decreased liquidity, limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons, resulting in decreased gaming volume at our Macao properties. Credit already extended by junket operators to their patrons may become increasingly difficult for them to collect. This inability to attract sufficient patrons, grant credit and collect amounts due in a timely manner could negatively affect junket operators' activities, cause junket operators to wind up or liquidate their operations or result in junket operators leaving Macao. The above factors affecting junket operators could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, the quality of junket operators with whom we have relationships is important to our reputation and our ability to continue to operate in compliance with our gaming licenses. While we strive for excellence in our associations with junket operators, we cannot assure you that the junket operators with whom we are associated will meet the high standards we insist upon. If a junket operator falls below our standards, we may suffer reputational harm, as well as worsening relationships with, and possible sanctions from, gaming regulators with authority over our operations. In the event a junket operator does not meet its financial obligations, there can be no assurance that we may not incur financial exposure.. Our business could be adversely affected by the limitations of the pataca exchange markets and restrictions on the export of the renminbi.. Our revenues in Macao are denominated in patacas, the legal currency of Macao, and Hong Kong dollars. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar and, in many cases, is used interchangeably with the Hong Kong. 35. Table of Contents. dollar in Macao. Although currently permitted, we cannot assure you that patacas will continue to be freely exchangeable into U.S. dollars. Also, our ability to convert large amounts of patacas into U.S. dollars over a relatively short period may be limited.. We are currently prohibited from accepting wagers in renminbi, the legal currency of China. There are also restrictions on the remittance of the renminbi from mainland China and the amount of renminbi that can be converted into foreign currencies, including the pataca and Hong Kong dollar. Restrictions on the remittance of the renminbi from mainland China may impede the flow of gaming customers from mainland China to Macao, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macao and negatively impact our gaming operations. There is no assurance that incremental mainland Chinese regulations will not be promulgated in the future that have the effect of restricting or eliminating the remittance of renminbi from mainland China. Further, if any new mainland Chinese regulations are promulgated in the future that have the effect of permitting or restricting (as the case may be) the remittance of renminbi from mainland China, then such remittances will need to be made subject to the specific requirements or restrictions set out in such rules.. Certain Nevada gaming laws apply to our gaming activities and associations in other jurisdictions where we operate or plan to operate.. Certain Nevada gaming laws also apply to our gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the State of Nevada. We are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning our proposed gaming activities and associations occurring outside the State of Nevada, including Macao, Singapore and other jurisdictions. We will also be subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if:. • we knowingly violate any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation;. • we fail to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations;. • we engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in Nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of Nevada;. • we engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the State of Nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or. • we employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of personal unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling.. Also, as we are required to provide any other information that the Nevada Commission may require concerning our gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the State of Nevada, we could be subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if our current reporting is determined to be unsatisfactory due to Macao, Singapore or other jurisdictions' regulations regarding personal data protection prohibiting us from satisfying certain reporting requirements of the Nevada Commission.. In addition, if the Nevada Board determines that one of our actual or intended activities or associations in a foreign gaming operation may violate one or more of the foregoing, we can be required to file an application with the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability of such activity or association. If the Nevada Commission finds that the activity or association in the foreign gaming operation is unsuitable or prohibited, we will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. Consequently, should the Nevada Commission find that our gaming activities or associations in Macao or certain other jurisdictions where we operate are unsuitable, we may be prohibited from undertaking our planned gaming activities or associations in those jurisdictions.. The gaming authorities in other jurisdictions where we operate or plan to operate, including in Macao and Singapore, exercise similar powers for purposes of assessing suitability in relation to our activities in other gaming jurisdictions where we do business.. 36. Table of Contents. We may not be able to monetize some of our real estate assets.. Part of our business strategy in Macao and Singapore relies upon our ability to profitably operate, sell and/or grant rights of use over certain of our real estate assets once completed, including retail malls. Our ability to monetize these assets will be subject to market conditions, applicable legislation, the receipt of necessary government approvals and other factors. If we are unable to profitably operate and/or monetize these real estate assets, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. VML may have financial and other obligations to foreign workers managed by its contractors under government labor quotas.. The Macao government has granted VML a quota to permit it to hire foreign workers. VML has effectively assigned the management of this quota to its contractors for the previous construction of our Cotai Strip projects. VML, however, remains ultimately liable for all employer obligations relating to these employees, including for payment of wages and taxes and compliance with labor and workers' compensation laws. VML requires each contractor to whom it has assigned the management of part of its labor quota to indemnify VML for any costs or liabilities VML incurs as a result of such contractor's failure to fulfill employer obligations. VML's agreements with its contractors also contain provisions that permit it to retain some payments for up to one year after the contractors' complete work on the projects. We cannot assure you that VML's contractors will fulfill their obligations to employees hired under the labor quotas or to VML under the indemnification agreements, or that the amount of any indemnification payments received will be sufficient to pay for any obligations VML may owe to employees managed by contractors under VML's quotas. Until we make final payments to our contractors, we have offset rights to collect amounts they may owe us, including amounts owed under the indemnities relating to employer obligations. After we have made the final payments, it may be more difficult for us to enforce any unpaid indemnity obligations.. The transportation infrastructure in Macao may not be adequate to accommodate increased future demand of visitors to Macao.. Macao is in the process of expanding its transportation infrastructure to service the increased number of visitors to Macao. If the planned expansions of transportation facilities to and from Macao are delayed or not completed, and Macao's transportation infrastructure is insufficient to meet the demands of an increased volume of visitors to Macao, the desirability of Macao as a business and leisure tourism destination, as well as the results of operations of our Macao properties, could be negatively impacted.. Risks Associated with Our U.S. Operations. We face significant competition in Las Vegas, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any significant downturn in the trade show and convention business could have a significant and adverse effect on our mid-week occupancy rates and business.. The hotel, resort and casino businesses in Las Vegas are highly competitive. We also compete, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in Nevada, as well as hotel/casinos and other resort facilities and vacation destinations elsewhere in the United States and around the world. In addition, various competitors on the Las Vegas Strip periodically expand and/or renovate their existing facilities. If demand for hotel rooms does not keep up with the increase in the number of hotel rooms, competitive pressures may cause reductions in average room rates.. We also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on Native American tribal lands, including those located in California. While the competitive impact on our operations in Las Vegas from the continued growth of Native American gaming establishments in California remains uncertain, the proliferation of gaming in California and other areas located in the same region as our Las Vegas Operating Properties could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. In addition, certain states have legalized, and others may legalize, casino gaming in specific areas, including metropolitan areas from which we traditionally attract customers. A number of states have permitted or are considering permitting gaming at \"racinos\" (combined race tracks and casinos), on Native American reservations and through expansion of state lotteries.. Certain states within the U.S. have also legalized, and others in the future may legalize, online gaming. There are a number of established, well capitalized companies producing and operating online gaming offerings that compete. 37. Table of Contents. with us. Online gaming is a new and evolving industry and is potentially subject to significant future development, including legal and regulatory development.. The current global trend toward liberalization of gaming restrictions and resulting proliferation of gaming venues could result in a decrease in the number of visitors to our Las Vegas facilities by attracting customers close to home and away from Las Vegas, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, on December 23, 2011, the DOJ released an opinion on the application of the Wire Act to interstate transmission of wire communications, concluding that such communications that did not relate to a \"sporting event or contest\" fell outside the prohibition of the Wire Act. In concluding as such, the DOJ reversed earlier opinions that the Wire Act was not limited to such communications on sporting events or contests. Those states that permit these distribution channels may also expand the gaming offerings of their lotteries in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our business.. The Sands Expo Center provides recurring demand for mid-week room nights for business travelers who attend meetings, trade shows and conventions in Las Vegas. The Sands Expo Center presently competes with other large convention centers, including convention centers in Las Vegas and other cities. To the extent that these competitors are able to capture a substantially larger portion of the trade show and convention business, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Certain beneficial owners of our voting securities may be required to file an application with, and be investigated by, the Nevada Gaming Authorities, and the Nevada Commission may restrict the ability of a beneficial owner to receive any benefit from our voting securities and may require the disposition of shares of our voting securities, if a beneficial owner is found to be unsuitable.. Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10% of our voting securities will be required to apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails a written notice requiring the filing. Under certain circumstances, an \"institutional investor\" as defined under the regulations of the Nevada Commission, which acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of our voting securities (subject to certain additional holdings as a result of certain debt restructurings or stock repurchase programs under the Nevada Act), may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability requirement if the institutional investor holds our voting securities only for investment purposes. In addition, any beneficial owner of our voting securities, regardless of the number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the discretion of the Nevada Commission to file an application for a finding of suitability as such. In either case, a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing and the applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting the investigation.. Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within thirty days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Gaming Authorities may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common stock of a registered corporation beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We are subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us or a licensed subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed subsidiaries:. • allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through securities held by that person;. • pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or. • fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish his or her voting securities including, if necessary, purchasing them for cash at fair market value.. For a more complete description of the Nevada gaming regulatory requirements applicable to beneficial owners of our voting securities, see \"Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulation and Licensing  -  State of Nevada.\". 38. Table of Contents. Certain beneficial owners of our voting securities may be required to file a license application with, and be investigated by, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the Pennsylvania State Police and other agencies.. Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of our voting securities will be required to apply to the PaGCB for licensure, obtain licensure and remain licensed. Licensure requires, among other things, that the applicant establish by clear and convincing evidence the applicant's good character, honesty and integrity. Additionally, any trust that holds 5% or more of our voting securities is required to be licensed by the PaGCB and each individual who is a grantor, trustee or beneficiary of the trust is also required to be licensed by the PaGCB. Under certain circumstances and under the regulations of the PaGCB, an \"institutional investor\" as defined under the regulations of the PaGCB, which acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more, but less than 10%, of our voting securities, may not be required to be licensed by the PaGCB provided the PaGCB grants a waiver of the licensure requirement. In addition, any beneficial owner of our voting securities, regardless of the number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the discretion of the PaGCB to file an application for licensure.. Furthermore, a person or a group of persons acting in concert who acquire(s) more than 20% of our securities, with the exception of the ownership interest of a person at the time of original licensure when the license fee was paid, would trigger a \"change in control\" (as defined under applicable law). Such a change in control could require us to re-apply for licensure by the PaGCB and incur a $50 million license fee.. In the event a security holder is required to be found qualified and is not found qualified, or fails to apply for qualification, such security holder may be required by the PaGCB to divest of the interest at a price not exceeding the cost of the interest.. For a more complete description of the Pennsylvania gaming regulatory requirements applicable to beneficial owners of our voting securities, see \"Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulation and Licensing  -  Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.\". Labor actions and other labor problems could negatively impact our operations.. From time to time, we have experienced attempts by labor organizations to organize certain of our non-union employees. We cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and successful union activity in the future. The impact of any union activity is undetermined and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If GGP (or any future owner of the Grand Canal Shoppes) breaches any of its material agreements with us or if we are unable to maintain an acceptable working relationship with GGP (or any future owner), there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We have entered into agreements with GGP under which, among other things, GGP has agreed to operate the Grand Canal Shoppes subject to, and in accordance with, the Cooperation Agreement. Our agreements with GGP could be adversely affected in ways that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows if we do not maintain an acceptable working relationship with GGP or its successors. For example, the Cooperation Agreement that governs the relationships between the Grand Canal Shoppes and The Palazzo and The Venetian Las Vegas requires that the owners cooperate in various ways and take various joint actions, which will be more difficult to accomplish, especially in a cost-effective manner, if the parties do not have an acceptable working relationship.. There could be similar material adverse consequences to us if GGP breaches any of its agreements with us, such as its agreement under the Cooperation Agreement to operate the Grand Canal Shoppes consistent with the standards of first-class restaurant and retail complexes and the overall Venetian theme in the section formerly referred to as The Grand Canal Shoppes, and its various obligations as our landlord under the leases described above. Although our agreements with GGP provide us with various remedies in the event of any breaches by GGP and include various dispute resolution procedures and mechanisms, these remedies, procedures and mechanisms may be inadequate to prevent a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows if breaches by GGP occur or if we do not maintain an acceptable working relationship with GGP.. 39. Table of Contents"
