[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered before making an investment decision relating to our common stock. If any of the risks described below occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial results.. We rely on a limited number of independent suppliers for the manufacture of all of our products and a failure by our suppliers to provide timely, cost-effective, and quality products could adversely affect our operations and financial results.. We depend on independent foundries to supply silicon wafers for our products. These foundries include Fujitsu in Japan and United Microelectronics Corporation in Taiwan, which supply the majority of our programmable logic wafers, and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, which supplies most of our HDMI and MHL integrated circuits. We negotiate wafer volumes, prices, and other terms with our foundry partners and their respective affiliates on a periodic basis typically resulting in short-term agreements which do not ensure long-term supply or allocation commitments. We rely on our foundry partners to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes. If the foundries that supply our wafers experience manufacturing problems, including unacceptable yields, delays in the realization of the requisite process technologies, or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies, our operating results could be adversely affected.. If for any reason the foundries are unable to, or do not manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or continue to manufacture a product for the full life of the product, we may be required to prematurely limit or discontinue the sales of certain products or incur significant costs to transfer products to other foundries, and our customer relationships and operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and cause them to limit or discontinue their business operations, resulting in shortages of supply and an inability to meet their commitments to us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. A disruption of one or more of our foundry partners' operations as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political or labor unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease, or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, or any other reason, could disrupt our wafer supply and could adversely affect our operating results.. Establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships requires the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. If we fail to maintain our foundry relationships, or elect or are required to change foundries, we will incur significant costs and manufacturing delays. The success of certain of our next generation products is dependent upon our ability to successfully partner with Fujitsu, Taiwan Semiconductor, Seiko Epson, and other foundry partners. If for any reason one or more of our foundry partners does not provide its facilities and support for our development efforts, we may be unable to effectively develop new products in a timely manner.. Should a change in foundry relationships be required, we may be unsuccessful in establishing new foundry relationships for our current or next generation products, or we may incur substantial cost or manufacturing delays until we form and ramp relationships and migrate products, all of which could adversely affect our operating results.. We depend on distributors to generate a significant portion of our revenue and complete order fulfillment and any adverse change in our relationship or our distributors' financial health, reduction of selling efforts, or inaccuracy in resale reports could harm our sales or result in misreporting our results.. We depend on our distributors to sell our products to end customers, complete order fulfillment, and maintain sufficient inventory of our products. Our distributors also provide technical support and other value-added services to our end customers. Resales through sell-through distributors accounted for 66% of our total revenue in fiscal 2017, with two distributors accounting for 51% of our total revenue in fiscal 2017.. 11. Table of Contents. We expect our distributors to generate a significant portion of our revenue in the future. Any adverse change to our relationships with our distributors or a failure by one or more of our distributors to perform its obligations to us could have a material impact on our business. In addition, a significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products.. The financial health of our distributors is important to our success. Economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of one or more of our distributors. This could result in the inability of distributors to finance the purchase of our products or cause the distributors to delay payment of their obligation to us and increase our credit risk. If the financial health of our distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors, our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted.. Since we have limited ability to forecast inventory levels of our end customers, it is possible that there may be significant build-up of inventories in the distributor channel, with the OEM or the OEM's contract manufacturer. Such a buildup could result in a slowdown in orders, requests for returns from customers, or requests to move out planned shipments. This could adversely affect our revenues and profits. Any failure to manage these challenges could disrupt or reduce sales of our products and unfavorably impact our financial results.. Based on our assessment of the implementation of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), we believe the most significant impact of the new standard will be to accelerate the timing of revenue recognition on product shipments to our sell-through distributors. Assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, the new guidance would require us to recognize revenue and costs relating to such sales upon shipment to the distributor - subject to reductions for estimated reserves for price adjustments and returns - rather than upon the ultimate sale by the distributor to its end customer, as is our current practice. The impact of this change will depend primarily on the level of inventory held by sell-through distributors at the beginning and end of each period. To the extent these inventory levels fluctuate significantly, revenue under the new standard could be materially different than that under the current standard.. We depend on the timeliness and accuracy of resale reports from our distributors. Late or inaccurate resale reports could have a detrimental effect on our ability to properly recognize revenue, especially under the new revenue standard, and on our ability to predict future sales.. We depend on a concentrated group of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. If any of these customers reduce their use of our products, our revenue could decrease significantly.. A significant portion of our revenue depends on sales to a limited number of customers. In fiscal 2017, our largest end customer accounted for approximately 7% of our total revenue, and our top five end customers accounted for approximately 26% of our total revenue. If any of these relationships were to diminish, if these customers were to develop their own solutions or adopt alternative solutions or competitors' solutions, or if our relationship with any future customer which accounts for a significant portion of our revenue were to diminish due to these factors, our results could be adversely affected.. While we strive to maintain strong relationships with our customers, their continued use of our products is frequently reevaluated, as certain of our customers' product life cycles are relatively short and they continually develop new products. The selection process for our products to be included in our customers' new products is highly competitive. There are no guarantees that our products will be included in the next generation of products introduced by these customers. For example, one of our largest customers from the second half of 2016 through the first half of 2017 was a major mobile handset provider. The production volume for this mobile handset peaked in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, and the associated revenue stream has declined in subsequent quarters as the end product completes its lifecycle. At this time, there is no guarantee that our products will be included in this provider's next generation handset, nor in any of its other devices. Any significant loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, one or more of these customers or their failure to meet their commitments to us, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If any one or more of our concentrated groups of customers were to experience significantly adverse financial conditions, our financial condition and business could be adversely affected as well.. Our success and future revenue depends on our ability to innovate, develop and introduce new products that achieve customer and market acceptance and to successfully compete in the highly competitive semiconductor industry, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and many of our direct and indirect competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, manufacturing, marketing, and sales resources. Consolidation in our industry may increasingly mean that our competitors have greater resources, or other synergies, that could put us at a competitive disadvantage. We currently compete directly with companies that have licensed our technology or have developed similar products, as well as numerous semiconductor companies that offer products based on alternative solutions, such as applications processor, application specific standard product, microcontroller, analog, and digital signal processing technologies. Competition from these semiconductor companies may intensify as we offer more products in any of our end markets. These competitors include established, multinational semiconductor companies, as well as emerging companies.. 12. Table of Contents. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technology and product evolution, generally followed by a relatively longer process of ramping up to volume production on advanced technologies. Our markets are also characterized by evolving industry standards, frequent new product introduction, short product life cycles, and increased demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometry. Our competitive position and success depends on our ability to innovate, develop, and introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption, form factor, and performance addressing the evolving needs of the markets we serve. These new products typically are more technologically complex than their predecessors.. Our future growth and the success of new product introductions depend upon numerous factors, including:. • timely completion and introduction of new product designs;. • ability to generate new design opportunities and design wins, including those which result in sales of significant volume;. • availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products;. • ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies;. • achieving acceptable yields and obtaining adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors;. • ability to obtain advanced packaging;. • availability of supporting software design tools;. • utilization of predefined IP logic;. • market acceptance of our MHL-enabled and wireless mobile products, and our 60 GHz wireless products;. • customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products;. • availability of competing alternative technologies; and. • market acceptance of our customers' products.. Our product innovation and development efforts may not be successful; our new products, MHL-enabled products, and 60GHz wireless products may not achieve market or customer acceptance; and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production to achieve acceptable cost. Revenue relating to our mature products is expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenue derived from our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. We rely on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining acceptable margins. To the extent such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or that our products do not achieve market acceptance or market acceptance at acceptable pricing, our forecasts of future revenue, financial condition, and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Our outstanding indebtedness could reduce our strategic flexibility and liquidity and may have other adverse effects on our results of operations.. In connection with our acquisition of Silicon Image, we entered into a secured Credit Agreement providing for a $350 million term loan that matures on March 10, 2021. Our obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by our U.S. subsidiaries. Our obligations include a requirement to pay up to 75% of our excess cash flow toward repayment of the facility. The Credit Agreement also contains certain restrictive covenants, including limitations on liens, mergers and consolidations, sales of assets, payment of dividends, and additional indebtedness. The amount and terms of our indebtedness, as well as our credit rating, could have important consequences, including the following:. • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, less able to withstand competitive pressures, and less flexible in responding to changing business and economic conditions;. • our cash flow from operations may be allocated to the payment of outstanding indebtedness, and not to research and development, operations or business growth;. • we might not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or other sources to enable us to meet our payment obligations under the facility and to fund other liquidity needs;. • our ability to make distributions to our stockholders in a sale or liquidation may be limited until any balance on the facility is repaid in full; and. • our ability to incur additional debt, including for working capital, acquisitions, or other needs, is more limited.. If we breach a loan covenant, the lenders could accelerate the repayment of the term loan. We might not have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness upon acceleration. If we are unable to repay the indebtedness, the lenders could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding against us or collection proceedings with respect to our assets and subsidiaries securing the facility, which could materially decrease the value of our common stock.. 13. Table of Contents. The intellectual property licensing component of our business strategy increases our business risk and fluctuation of our revenue.. Our business strategy includes licensing our intellectual property to companies that incorporate it into their respective technologies that address markets in which we do not directly participate or compete. We also license our intellectual property into markets where we do participate and compete. Our licensing and services revenue may be impacted by the introduction of new technologies by customers in place of the technologies based on our intellectual property, changes in the law that may weaken our ability to prevent the use of our patented technology by others, the expiration of our patents, and changes of selling prices for products using licensed patents. We cannot assure that our licensing customers will continue to license our technology on commercially favorable terms or at all, or that these customers will introduce and sell products incorporating our technology, accurately report royalties owed to us, pay agreed upon royalties, honor agreed upon market restrictions, or maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information, or will not infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property. Our intellectual property licensing agreements are complex and depend upon many factors, including completion of milestones, allocation of values to delivered items and customer acceptances. Many of these require significant judgments. Additionally, this is a relatively new end market for us, with which we do not yet have extensive experience.. We have also generated revenue from the sale of certain patents from our portfolio, generally for technology that we are no longer actively developing. While we plan to continue to monetize our patent portfolio through sales of non-core patents, we may not be able to realize adequate interest or prices for those patents. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to generate revenue from these sales. In addition, although we seek to be strategic in our decisions to sell patents, we might incur reputational harm if a purchaser of our patents sues one of our customers for infringement of the purchased patent, and we might later decide to enter a space that requires the use of one or more of the patents we sold. In addition, as we sell groups of patents, we no longer have the opportunity to license those patents and receive a continuing royalty stream.. Our licensing and services revenue fluctuates, sometimes significantly, from period to period because it is heavily dependent on a few key transactions being completed in a given period, the timing of which is difficult to predict and may not match our expectations. Because of its high margin, the licensing and services revenue portion of our overall revenue can have a disproportionate impact on gross profit and profitability. Generating revenue from intellectual property licenses is a lengthy and complex process that may last beyond the period in which our efforts begin, and the accounting rules governing the recognition of revenue from intellectual property licensing transactions are increasingly complex and subject to interpretation. As a result, the amount of license revenue recognized in any period may differ significantly from our expectations.. The semiconductor industry routinely experiences cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results.. Our revenue and gross margin can fluctuate significantly due to downturns in the semiconductor industry. These downturns can be severe and prolonged and can result in price erosion and weak demand for our products. Weak demand for our products resulting from general economic conditions affecting the end markets we serve or the semiconductor industry specifically and reduced spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted, in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. The dynamics of the markets in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable predictors of our future results.. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations of future sales. Many of our expenses, particularly those relating to facilities, capital equipment, and other overhead, are relatively fixed. We might be unable to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for reductions in sales. Accordingly, shortfalls in sales could adversely affect our operating results.. General economic conditions and deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Adverse economic conditions or our customers' perceptions of the economic environment may negatively affect customer demand for our products and services and result in delayed or decreased spending. Weak global economic conditions in the past have resulted in weak demand for our products in certain geographies and had an adverse impact on our results of operations. If global economic conditions weaken, our business could be harmed due to customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders. In addition, the inability of customers to obtain credit, the insolvency of one or more customers, or the insolvency of key suppliers could result in sales or production delays. Any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables, require additional restructuring actions, and decrease our revenue and profitability. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future.. 14. Table of Contents. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries, and increased expenses.. To remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller geometries. This requires us to change the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products as well as standard cells and other integrated circuit designs we may use in multiple products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. The transition to lower nanometer geometry process technologies will result in significantly higher mask and prototyping costs, as well as additional expenditures for engineering design tools.. We depend on our relationships with our foundry partners to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We make no assurance that our foundry partners will be able to effectively manage the transition in a timely manner, or at all. If we or any of our foundry partners experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries, and increased expenses, all of which could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial condition and operating results.. Foreign sales, accounting for the majority of our revenue, are subject to various risks associated with selling in international markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, and results of operations.. We derive the majority of our revenue from sales outside of the United States. Accordingly, if we experience a decline in foreign sales, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our foreign sales are subject to numerous risks, including:. • changes in local economic conditions;. • currency exchange rate volatility;. • governmental stimulus packages, controls, and trade restrictions;. • governmental policies that promote development and consumption of domestic products;. • export license requirements, foreign trade compliance matters, and restrictions on the use of technology;. • political instability, war, terrorism, or pandemic disease;. • changes in tax rates, tariffs, or freight rates;. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights;. • longer receivable collection periods;. • natural or man-made disasters in the countries where we sell our products;. • interruptions in transportation;. • interruptions in the global communication infrastructure; and. • labor regulations.. Any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future.. We have significant international operations exposing us to various economic, regulatory, political, and business risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, and results of operations.. We have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, and operational and research and development sites in China, India, the Philippines, and other Asian locations. In addition, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries; have our commercial products assembled, packaged, and tested by subcontractors located outside of the United States; and rely on an international service provider for inventory management, order fulfillment, and direct sales logistics.. These and other integral business activities outside of the United States are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments including trade barriers; economic sanctions; environmental regulations; import and export regulations; duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions; changes in trade policies; anti-corruption laws; domestic and foreign governmental regulations; potential vulnerability of and reduced protection for intellectual property; disruptions or delays in production or shipments; and instability or fluctuations in currency exchange rates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, with the acquisition of Silicon Image, we have increased the operational challenges of conducting our business in and across multiple geographic regions around the world, especially in the face of different business practices, social norms, and legal standards.. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political instability, including as a result of the United Kingdom referendum on June 23, 2016, in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\"), terrorist activity, U.S. or other military actions, or economic crises in countries where our main wafer suppliers, end customers, contract manufacturers, and logistics providers are located.. 15. Table of Contents. The Mobile and Consumer end market is rapidly changing and cyclical, and a downturn in this end market or our failure to accurately predict the frequency, duration, timing, and severity of these cycles could adversely affect our financial condition and results.. With the acquisition of Silicon Image, the Mobile and Consumer end market has increased in importance to us. Revenue from the Mobile and Consumer end market accounted for 28% of our revenue in fiscal 2017. Revenue from the Mobile and Consumer end market consists primarily of revenue from our products designed and used in a broad range of consumer electronics products including smartphones, tablets and e-readers, wearables, accessories such as chargers and docks, Ultra High-Definition (UHD) TVs, Digital SLR cameras, drones, and other connected devices. This market is characterized by rapidly changing requirements and product features and volatility in consumer demand. Our success in this market will depend principally on our ability to:. • meet the market windows for consumer products;. • predict technology and market trends;. • develop IP cores to meet emerging market needs;. • develop products on a timely basis;. • maintain multiple design wins across different markets and customers to dampen the effects of market volatility;. • be designed into our customers' products; and. • avoid cancellations or delay of products.. Our inability to accomplish any of the foregoing, or to offset the volatility of this end market through diversification into other markets, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Cyclicality in the Mobile and Consumer end market could periodically result in higher or lower levels of revenue and revenue concentration with a single or small number of customers. In addition, rapid changes in this market may affect demand for our products, and may cause our revenue derived from sales in this market to vary significantly over time, adversely affecting our financial results.. A downturn in the Communications and Computing end market could cause a meaningful reduction in demand for our products and limit our ability to maintain revenue levels and operating results.. Revenue from the Communications and Computing end market accounted for 29% of our revenue in fiscal 2017. Three of our top five programmable logic customers participate primarily in the Communications and Computing end market. In the past, cyclical weakening in demand for programmable logic products from customers in the Communications and Computing end market has adversely affected our revenue and operating results. In addition, telecommunication equipment providers are building network infrastructure for which we compete for product sales. Any deterioration in the Communications and Computing end market, our end customers' reduction in spending, or a reduction in spending by their customers to support this end market or use of our competitors' products could lead to a reduction in demand for our products which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. This type of decline impacted our results in the past and could do so again in the future.. A single large customer may be in a position to demand certain functionality, pricing or timing requirements that may detract from or interfere with our normal business activities. If this happens, delays in our normal development schedules could occur, causing our products to miss market windows, thereby reducing the total number of units sold of a particular product.. The products we develop are complex and require significant planning and resources. In the Mobile and Consumer end market, new products are typically introduced early in the year, often in association with key trade shows. In order to meet these deadlines, our customers must complete their product development by year-end, which usually means we must ship sample parts in early spring. If we cannot ship sample parts in early spring, customers may be forced to remove the feature provided by our product, use a competitor's product, or use an alternate technology in order to meet their timelines. We plan our product development with these market windows in mind, but if we receive requests from a large customer to deploy resources to meet their requirements or work on a specific solution, our normal development path could be delayed, causing us to miss sample deadlines and therefore future revenues.. We rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly may cause business disruptions.. We rely in part on various information technology (\"IT\") systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly make changes to improve them as necessary by periodically implementing new, or upgrading or enhancing existing, operational and IT systems, procedures, and controls. We have undergone a significant integration and systems implementation following the acquisition of Silicon Image.. We have recently implemented a new enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system to standardize our processes worldwide and adopt best-in-class capabilities. We converted to the new ERP system at the beginning of the second quarter of fiscal 2017. We have committed significant resources to this new ERP system, which replaces multiple legacy systems, and realizing the full functionality of this conversion is extremely complex, in part, because of the wide range of processes and the multiple legacy systems that must be integrated.. 16. Table of Contents. As a result of the conversion process and during our initial use of the new ERP system, we may experience delays or disruptions in the integration of our new or enhanced systems, procedures, or controls. We may also encounter errors in data, an inability to accurately process or record transactions, and security or technical reliability issues. All of these could harm our ability to conduct core operating functions such as processing invoices, shipping and receiving, recording and reporting financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis, and could impact our internal control compliance efforts. If the technical solution or end user training are inadequate, it could limit our ability to manufacture and ship products as planned.. These systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. Failure of our IT systems or difficulties or delays in managing and integrating them could impact the company's ability to perform necessary operations, which could materially adversely affect our business.. Acquisitions, strategic investments and strategic partnerships present risks, and we may not realize the goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction.. On March 10, 2015, we acquired Silicon Image, and we may make further acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. Acquisitions and strategic investments, including our acquisition of Silicon Image, present risks, including:. • our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by investment, acquisition, transition, or integration activities;. • an acquisition or strategic investment may not perform as well or further our business strategy as we expected, and we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected;. • we may incur unexpected costs, claims, or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition;. • we may discover adverse conditions post-acquisition that are not covered by representations and warranties;. • we may increase some of our risks, such as increasing customer or end product concentration;. • we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines;. • we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, and in general and administrative functions that support such products;. • we may have difficulty integrating and retaining key personnel;. • we may have difficulty integrating business systems, processes, and tools, such as accounting software, inventory management systems, or revenue systems which may have an adverse effect on our business;. • our liquidity and/or capital structure may be adversely impacted;. • our strategic investments may not perform as expected;. • we may experience unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions and strategic investments pursuant to U.S. GAAP;. • we may have difficulty integrating acquired entities into our global tax structure with potentially negative impacts on our effective tax rate;. • if the acquisition or strategic investment does not perform as projected, we might take a charge to earnings due to impaired goodwill;. • we may divest certain assets of acquired businesses, leading to charges against earnings;. • we may experience unexpected negative responses from vendors or customers to the acquisition, which may adversely impact our operations; and. • we may have difficulty integrating the processes and control environment.. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions or strategic investments. In addition, we may enter into strategic partnerships with third parties with the goal of gaining access to new and innovative products and technologies. Strategic partnerships pose many of the same risks as acquisitions or investments.. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to complete any future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from any of our past or future acquisitions, strategic investments, or strategic partnerships. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. A sustained decline in the price of our common stock may make it more difficult and expensive to initiate or complete additional acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms.. We are required under U.S. GAAP to test goodwill for possible impairment on an annual basis and to test goodwill and long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible assets, for impairment at any other time that circumstances arise indicating the carrying value may not be recoverable. For purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, the Company currently operates as one reporting unit: the core Lattice (\"Core\") business, which includes intellectual property and semiconductor devices. No impairment charges related to goodwill were recorded in either fiscal year 2017 or 2016, and no impairment charges related to goodwill were recorded for the Core segment in fiscal 2015. Impairment charges related to amortizable intangible assets from the Silicon Image acquisition totaled approximately $32.4 million and $7.9 million in fiscal years 2017 and 2016, respectively. There is no assurance that future impairment tests will indicate that goodwill or amortizable intangible assets will be deemed recoverable. As we continue to review our business operations and test for impairment or in connection with possible sales of assets, we may have impairment charges in the future, which may be material.. 17. Table of Contents. A number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins.. A number of factors, including how products are manufactured to support the consumer market segment, yield, wafer pricing, cost of packaging raw materials, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or end market mix, and pricing strategies, can cause our gross margins to fluctuate significantly either positively or negatively from period to period. In addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because a significant portion of our business is based on turns within the same quarter.. Our customers typically test and evaluate our products prior to deciding to design our product into their own products, and then require additional time to begin volume production of those products. This lengthy sales cycle may cause us to experience significant delays and to incur additional inventory costs until we generate revenue from our products. It is possible that we may never generate any revenue from products after incurring significant expenditures.. While our sales cycles are typically long, our average product life cycles tend to be short as a result of the rapidly changing technology environment in which we operate. In addition, our inventory levels may be higher than historical norms, from time to time, due to inventory build decisions aimed at meeting expected demand from a single large customer, reducing direct material cost or enabling responsiveness to expected demand. In the event the expected demand does not materialize, or if our short sales cycle does not generate sufficient revenue, we may be subject to incremental excess and obsolescence costs. In addition, future product cost reductions could impact our inventory valuation, which could adversely affect our operating results.. We and our connectivity customers depend on the availability of certain functions and capabilities within mobile and personal computing operating systems over which we may have no control. New releases of these operating systems may render certain of our products inoperable or may require significant engineering effort to create new device driver software.. Certain portions of our business operate within a market that is dominated by a few key OEMs. These OEMs could play a role in driving the growth of our business or could prevent our growth through deliberate or non-deliberate action. We do not have a presence in the Windows eco-system or in all iOS or Android devices. Our success and ability to grow depend upon our ability to continue to be successful within the iOS and Android eco-systems or gain significant traction within the Windows eco-system. Failure to maintain and grow our presence in these key eco-systems could adversely affect unit volumes.. Further, many of our products depend on the availability of certain functionality in the device operating system, typically Android, Linux, Windows, or iOS. Certain operating system primitives are needed to support video output. We have no control over these operating systems or the companies that produce them, and it is unlikely that we could influence any internal decision these companies make that may have a negative impact on our integrated circuits and their function. Updates to these operating systems that, for example, change the way video is output or remove the ability to output video could materially affect sales of MHL and HDMI integrated circuits.. Products targeted to personal computing or mobile, laptop, or notebook designs often require device driver software to operate. This software is difficult to produce and may require certifications before being released. Failure to produce this software could have a negative impact on our relation with operating system providers and may damage our reputation with end consumers as a quality supplier of products.. Shortages in, or increased costs of, wafers and materials could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues.. Worldwide manufacturing capacity for silicon wafers is relatively inelastic. If the demand for silicon wafers or assembly material materially exceeds market supply, our supply of silicon wafers or assembly material could quickly become limited. A shortage in manufacturing capacity could hinder our ability to meet product demand and therefore reduce our revenue. In addition, silicon wafers constitute a material portion of our product cost. If we are unable to purchase wafers at favorable prices, our gross margins will be adversely affected.. We depend on independent contractors for most of our assembly and test services, and disruption of their services, or an increased in cost of these services, could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on subcontractors to assemble, test, and ship our products with acceptable quality and yield levels. Our operations and operating results may be adversely affected if we experience problems with our subcontractors that impact the delivery of product to our customers. Those problems may include: prolonged inability to obtain wafers or packaging materials with competitive performance and cost attributes; inability to achieve adequate yields or timely delivery; disruption or defects in assembly, test, or shipping services; or delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes or ramping up volume for new products. Economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of our subcontractors and result in their inability to meet their commitments to us resulting in product shortages, quality assurance problems, reduced revenue, and/or increased costs which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. In the past, we have experienced delays in obtaining assembled and tested products and in securing assembly and test capacity commitments from our suppliers. We currently anticipate that our assembly and test capacity commitments are adequate; however, these existing commitments may not be sufficient for us to satisfy customer demand in future periods. We negotiate assembly and test prices and capacity commitments from our contractors on a periodic basis. If any of our assembly or test contractors reduce their capacity commitment or increase their prices, and we cannot find alternative sources, our operating results could be adversely affected.. We rely on independent software and hardware developers and disruption of their services could negatively affect our operations and financial results.. We rely on independent software and hardware developers for the design, development, supply, and support of intellectual property cores; design and development software; and certain elements of evaluation boards. As a result, failure or significant delay to complete software or deliver hardware in accordance with our plans, specifications, and agreements could disrupt the release of or introduction of new or existing products, which could be detrimental to the capability of our new or existing products to win designs. Any of these delays or inability to complete the design or development could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results.. Our participation in HDMI and MHL has included our acting as agent for these consortia for which we have been receiving adopter fees. We no longer act as agent for the HDMI standard and there is no guarantee that we will continue to act as agent for the MHL standard. Accordingly, we now receive a reduced share of HDMI adopter fees and we could in the future lose MHL adopter fees.. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, HDMI Licensing, LLC, we acted as agent of the HDMI consortium until December 31, 2016 and were responsible for promoting and administering the specification. We received all of the adopter fees paid by adopters of the HDMI specification in connection with our role as agent. In September 2016, the founders of the HDMI consortium (\"Founders\"), of which we are a member, amended the Founders Agreement resulting in changes to our role as agent for the HDMI consortium and to the model for sharing adopter fee revenues. Under the terms of the agreement, our role as the agent was terminated effective January 1, 2017 and a new independent entity was appointed to act as the new HDMI licensing agent with responsibility for licensing and the distribution of royalties among Founders. As a result of the amended model for sharing adopter fee revenue, we will be entitled to a reduced share of adopter fees paid by parties adopting the HDMI standard.. In addition, another member of the HDMI consortium asserts that we owe the other HDMI consortium founders their respective shares of any HDMI adopter fees not used by us in the marketing and other activities in furtherance of the HDMI standard from our time as agent. The consortium member has previously indicated its belief that the HDMI founders enjoy a right to these funds but has never pursued such claim. If a determination is made that there were excess adopter fees or if it is determined that we were obligated to share such fees with other consortium members, it could negatively impact our financial position. At this stage of the proceedings, we do not have an estimate of the likelihood or the amount of any financial consequences to us.. We share HDMI royalties with the other HDMI founders based on an allocation formula, which is reviewed every three years. The most recent royalty sharing formula covered the period from January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2016, and a new agreement is yet to be signed. Our portion of the royalty allocation has declined for the last several years. In 2015, we received between 24% and 25% of the royalty allocation, while for 2016, we received 20% of the royalty allocation. The royalty allocation for 2017 and future years is not yet known but may decline. If the level continues to decline, our financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, delays in the signing of new royalty sharing agreements impacted our timing of revenue recognition and ability to recognize revenue related to the royalties in fiscal 2017. With our adoption of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) as of the beginning of fiscal 2018, we will recognize revenue related to royalties based on estimates of the amounts we will be entitled to receive, and these estimates could differ materiality from actual royalty sharing amounts.. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, MHL, LLC, we act as agent of the MHL specification and are responsible for promoting and administering the specification. As agent, we are entitled to receive license fees paid by adopters of the MHL specification sufficient to reimburse us for the costs we incur to promote and administer the specification. Given the limited number of MHL adopters to date, we do not believe the license fees paid by such adopters will be sufficient to reimburse us for these costs and we make no assurance that the license fees paid by MHL adopters will ever be sufficient to reimburse us the costs we incur as agent of the specification.. We currently intend to promote and continue to be involved and actively participate in other standard setting initiatives. For example, through Silicon Image's acquisition of SiBEAM, Inc. in May 2011, it achieved SiBEAM's prior position as founder and chair of the WirelessHD Consortium. We may decide to license additional elements of our intellectual property to others for use in implementing, developing, promoting, or adopting standards in our target markets, in certain circumstances at little or no cost. This may make it easier for others to compete with us in such markets. In addition, even if we receive license fees or royalties in connection with the licensing of our intellectual property, we make no assurance that such license fees or royalties will compensate us adequately.. 19. Table of Contents. Our failure to control unauthorized access to our IT systems may cause problems with key business partners or liability.. We may be subject to unauthorized access to our IT systems through a security breach or cyber-attack. In the ordinary course of our business, we maintain sensitive data on our networks, including our intellectual property and proprietary or confidential business information relating to our business and that of our customers and business partners. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our business and reputation. We believe that companies have been increasingly subject to a wide variety of security incidents, cyber-attacks, and other attempts to gain unauthorized access. Cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and much harder to detect and defend against. Our network and storage applications may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers or breached due to operator error, malfeasance, or other system disruptions. It is often difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and to assess the damage caused by them. In the past, third parties have attempted to penetrate and/or infect our network and systems with malicious software in an effort to gain access to our network and systems.. These data breaches and any unauthorized access or disclosure of our information or intellectual property could compromise our intellectual property and expose sensitive business information. Cyber-attacks could also cause us to incur significant remediation costs, result in product development delays, disrupt key business operations, and divert attention of management and key information technology resources. Our reputation, brand, and business could be significantly harmed, and we could be subject to third party claims in the event of such a security breach.. Recent tax law changes and our global organizational structure and operations expose us to unanticipated tax consequences.. Our legal organizational structure could result in unanticipated unfavorable tax or other consequences which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have a global tax structure to more effectively align our corporate structure with our business operations including responsibility for sales and purchasing activities. We created new and realigned existing legal entities; completed intercompany sales of rights to intellectual property, inventory, and fixed assets across different tax jurisdictions; and implemented cost-sharing and intellectual property licensing and royalty agreements between our legal entities. We currently operate legal entities in countries where we conduct supply-chain management, design, and sales operations around the world. In some countries, we maintain multiple entities for tax or other purposes. In addition, we are currently conducting further restructuring activities following our acquisition of Silicon Image as we integrate Silicon Image and its subsidiaries, which include numerous foreign entities, into our existing global tax and corporate structures. These integration activities, changes in tax laws, regulations, future jurisdictional profitability of the Company and its subsidiaries, and related regulatory interpretations in the countries in which we operate may impact the taxes we pay or tax provision we record, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to taxation in the United States, Singapore, and other countries. Future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws. We compute our effective tax rate using actual jurisdictional profits and losses. Changes in the jurisdictional mix of profits and losses may cause fluctuations in the effective tax rate. Adverse changes in tax rates, our tax assets, and tax liabilities could negatively affect our results in the future.. We make no assurance as to what taxes we pay or the ability to estimate our future effective tax rate because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. In particular, we anticipate that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted December 22, 2017, will impact us. While we are able to quantify or estimate the effects of some of the provisions now in the act, we do not know of all of the rules the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") will enact to fully implement the tax law changes, or the IRS' interpretations of the changes. We also continue to analyze and understand the changes and the impacts on us, including the indirect impacts that result from how our industry or we might modify behaviors in a response to the new tax law structure. We also provide no assurance that estimates we provide to quantify the effect of the changes may be accurate.. Product quality problems could lead to reduced revenue, gross margins, and net income.. In general, we warrant our products for varying lengths of time against non-conformance to our specifications and certain other defects. Because our products, including hardware, software, and intellectual property cores, are highly complex and increasingly incorporate advanced technology, our quality assurance programs may not detect all defects, whether manufacturing defects in individual products or systematic defects that could affect numerous shipments. Inability to detect a defect could result in a diversion of our engineering resources from product development efforts, increased engineering expenses to remediate the defect, and increased costs due to customer accommodation or inventory impairment charges. On occasion we have also repaired or replaced certain components, made software fixes, or refunded the purchase price or license fee paid by our customers due to product or software defects. If there are significant product defects, the costs to remediate such defects, net of reimbursed amounts from our vendors, if any, or to resolve warranty claims may adversely affect our revenue, gross margins, and net income.. 20. Table of Contents. We may have difficulty implementing the new revenue recognition requirements.. Although we have spent considerable time preparing to implement new Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), we do not have extensive experience with the new requirements in practice. The SEC requires us to publish our financial results in short time frames, which could result in our having difficulty actually implementing the new requirements as intended within the proscribed financial reporting periods. We provide no assurance that our current estimates of the effects of ASU No. 2014-09 contained elsewhere in this Annual Report are accurate.. The nature of our business makes our revenue and gross margin subject to fluctuation and difficult to predict with accuracy, which could have an adverse impact on our business and our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and gross margin guidance.. In addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers' products and those products achieving market acceptance. Due to the complexity of our customers' designs, the design to volume production process for many of our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. In addition, we are dependent upon \"turns,\" orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter. These factors make it difficult for us to accurately forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. The difficulty in forecasting future sales weakens our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner. While we may give guidance, the difficulty in forecasting revenues as well as the relative customer and product mix of those revenues limits our ability to provide accurate forward-looking revenue and gross margin guidance.. Reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins.. The average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature or may decline as we compete for market share or customer acceptance in competitive markets. We seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions, and increased unit sales. We also seek to continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. However, we cannot guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins.. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our financial results and our ability to compete effectively may suffer.. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work, and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We intend to continue to protect our proprietary technology, however, we may be unsuccessful in asserting our intellectual property rights or such rights may be invalidated, violated, circumvented, or challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright, and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Third parties may attempt to misappropriate our intellectual property through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against us in the future. Such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims, or other legal actions, and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. This could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products or require us to pay costly royalties to third parties in connection with sales of our products. Any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. A material change in the agreements governing encryption keys we use could place additional restrictions on us, or our distributors or contract manufacturers, which could restrict product shipment or significantly increase the cost to track products throughout the distribution chain.. Many of the components in our products contain encryption keys used in connection with High Definition Content Protection (HDCP). The regulation and distribution of these encryption keys are controlled through license agreements with Digital Content Protection (DCP), a wholly owned subsidiary of Intel Corporation. These license agreements have been modified by DCP from time to time, and such changes could impact us, our distributors, and our customers. An important element of both HDMI and MHL is the ability to implement link protection for high definition (HD), and more recently, 4K UltraHD, content. We implement various aspects of the HDCP link protection within certain parts we sell. We also, for the benefit of our customers, include the necessary HDCP encryption keys in parts we ship to customers. These encryption keys are provided to us from DCP. We have a specific process for tracking and handling these encryption keys. If DCP changes any of the tracking or handling requirements associated with HDCP encryption keys, we may be required to change our manufacturing and distribution processes, which could adversely affect our manufacturing and distribution costs associated with these products. If we cannot satisfy new requirements for the handling and tracking of encryption keys, we may have to cease shipping or manufacturing certain products.. 21. Table of Contents. Our participation in consortia for the development and promotion of industry standards in certain of our target markets, including the HDMI, MHL, and WirelessHD standards, requires us to license some of our intellectual property for free or under specified terms and conditions, which makes it easier for others to compete with us in such markets.. An element of our business strategy includes participating in consortia to establish industry standards in certain of our target markets; promoting and enhancing specifications; and developing and marketing products based on those specifications and future enhancements. We intend to continue participating in consortia that develop and promote the HDMI, MHL, and WirelessHD specifications. In connection with our participation in these consortia, we make certain commitments regarding our intellectual property, in each case with the effect of making certain of our intellectual property available to others, including our competitors, desiring to implement the specification in question. For example, we must license specific elements of our intellectual property to others for use in implementing the HDMI specification, including enhancements, as long as we remain part of the consortium. Also, we must agree not to assert certain necessary patent claims against other members of the MHL consortium, even if those members may have infringed upon those patents in implementing the MHL specification.. Accordingly, certain companies that implement these specifications in their products may use specific elements of our intellectual property to compete with us. Although in the case of the HDMI and MHL consortia, there are annual fees and royalties associated with the adopters' use of the technology, we make no assurance that our shares of such annual fees and royalties will adequately compensate us for having to license or refrain from asserting our intellectual property. In September 2016, the Founders of the HDMI consortium, of which we are a member, amended the Founders Agreement resulting in changes to our role as agent for the HDMI consortium and to the model for sharing adopter fee revenues. Under the terms of the agreement, our role as the agent was terminated effective January 1, 2017 and a new independent entity was appointed to act as the new HDMI licensing agent with responsibility for licensing and the distribution of royalties among Founders. As a result of the amended model for sharing adopter fee revenue, we will be entitled to a reduced share of adopter fees paid by parties adopting the HDMI standard.. Our revenue depends, in part, on the continued adoption and widespread implementation of the HDMI and MHL specifications and the new implementation and adoption of the WirelessHD specifications.. Our future revenue depends, in part, upon the continued adoption and widespread implementation of the HDMI, MHL, and WirelessHD specifications. From time to time, competing standards have been established which negatively affect the success of existing standards or jeopardize the creation of new standards. Our failure to continue to drive innovation in the MHL specifications could have an adverse effect on our business going forward.. MHL has not been widely adopted, and if manufacturers who have included MHL in their designs decide that MHL is no longer necessary or cost-effective as a product feature, they could choose to omit the MHL functionality (and our product) from their designs. Such decisions would adversely affect our revenues.. We now have 60GHz wireless technology that we hope will be made widely available and adopted by the marketplace through the efforts of the WirelessHD consortium and incorporated into certain of our future products. As with our HDMI and MHL products and intellectual property, our success with this technology will depend on our ability to introduce first-to-market WirelessHD-enabled semiconductor and intellectual property solutions to our customers and to continue to innovate within the WirelessHD standard. WiGig is an example of a competing 60GHz standard that has been created as an alternative high-bandwidth wireless connectivity solution for the personal computing industry. While the WiGig standard has not been in the market as long as the WirelessHD standard, it does represent a viable alternative to WirelessHD for 60GHz connectivity. If WiGig should gain broader adoption before WirelessHD is adopted, it could negatively impact the adoption of WirelessHD.. As successor-in-interest to Silicon Image, we have granted Intel Corporation certain rights with respect to our intellectual property, which could allow Intel to develop products that compete with ours or otherwise reduce the value of our intellectual property.. Silicon Image entered into a patent cross-license agreement with Intel in which each of them granted the other a license to use the patents filed by the grantor prior to a specified date, except for use related to identified types of products. We believe that the scope of this license to Intel excludes our current products and anticipated future products. Intel could, however, exercise its rights under this agreement to use certain of our patents received in the acquisition of Silicon Image to develop and market other products that compete with ours, without payment to us. Additionally, Intel's rights to these patents could reduce the value of the patents to any third-party who otherwise might be interested in acquiring rights to use these patents in such products. Finally, Intel could endorse competing products, including a competing digital interface, or develop its own proprietary digital interface. Any of these actions could substantially harm our business and results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. Litigation and unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under Note 15 contained in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and certain portions of our business.. We depend upon a third party to provide inventory management, order fulfillment, and direct sales logistics and disruption of these services could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. We rely on a third party vendor to provide cost-effective and efficient supply chain services. Among other activities, these outsourced services relate to direct sales logistics, including order fulfillment, inventory management and warehousing, and distribution of inventory to third party distributors. If our third party supply chain provider were to discontinue services for us or its operations are disrupted as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease, or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, or any other reason, our ability to fulfill direct sales orders and distribute inventory timely, cost effectively, or at all, would be hindered, which could adversely affect our business.. We may have failed to adequately insure against certain risks, and, as a result, our financial condition and results may be adversely affected.. We carry insurance customary for companies in our industry, including, but not limited to, liability, property, and casualty; workers' compensation; and business interruption insurance. We also insure our employees for basic medical expenses. In addition, we have insurance contracts that provide director and officer liability coverage for our directors and officers. Other than the specific areas mentioned above, we are self-insured with respect to most other risks and exposures, and the insurance we carry in many cases is subject to a significant policy deductible or other limitation before coverage applies. Based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is more cost effective to self-insure against certain risks than to incur the insurance premium costs. The risks and exposures for which we self-insure include, but are not limited to, certain natural disasters, certain product defects, political risk, certain theft, patent infringement, and employment practice matters. Should there be a catastrophic loss due to an uninsured event (such as an earthquake) or a loss due to adverse occurrences in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected.. We compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively.. We depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers who can respond to market demands and required product innovation. Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. From time to time we have effected restructurings which have eliminated a number of positions. Even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. If we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, we could have difficulty competing in our highly-competitive and innovative environment.. 23. Table of Contents"
