[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, the following factors should be considered in evaluating Lawson's business. Our operating results depend upon many factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The material risks and uncertainties known to us and described below may negatively affect our business operations or affect our financial results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations or affect our financial results.. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by a downturn in the economy or in certain sectors of the economy.. Any decline or uncertainty in the strength of the economy may lead to a decrease in customer spending and may cause certain customers to cancel or delay placing orders. Some of our customers may file for bankruptcy protection, preventing us from collecting on accounts receivable and may result in our stocking excess inventory. Contractions in the credit markets may also cause some of our customers to experience difficulties in obtaining financing, leading to lower sales, delays in the collection of receivables and result in an increase in bad debt expense.. Adverse economic conditions could also affect our key suppliers and contractors. This could lead to us incurring additional expenses or result in delays in shipping products to our customers. Economic uncertainty can make it difficult for us to accurately predict future order activity and affect our ability to effectively manage inventory levels. There are no assurances that we would be able to establish alternative financing or obtain financing with terms similar to our present Loan Agreement.. Failure to adequately fund our operating and working capital needs through cash generated from operations and cash available through our Loan Agreements could negatively impact our ability to invest in the business and maintain our capital structure.. Our business requires investment in working capital and fixed assets. We fund these investments from cash generated from operations and funds available from our Loan Agreements. Failure to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or from our Loan Agreements could cause us to have insufficient funds to operate our business. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms.. Failure to meet the covenant requirements of our Loan Agreements could lead to higher financing costs, increased restrictions and reduce or eliminate our ability to borrow funds.. Our Loan Agreements contains financial and other restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our financial and operating flexibility as well as our ability to plan for and react to market conditions and to meet our capital needs. Failure to meet these covenant requirements could lead to higher financing costs, increased restrictions, reduce or eliminate our ability to borrow funds, or accelerate the payment of our existing indebtedness. If we require more liquidity than is currently available to us under our Loan Agreements, we may need to raise additional funds through debt or equity offerings which may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms favorable to us. Should funding be insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The market price of our common stock may decline.. Our stock price could decrease if our financial performance is inadequate or does not meet investors' expectations, if there is deterioration in the overall market for equities, if large amounts of shares are sold in the market, if there is index trading, or if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements are negatively impacted by an economic downturn.. A significant portion of our inventory may become obsolete.. Our business strategy requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory in order to meet rapid processing of customer orders. If our inventory forecasting and production planning processes result in inventory levels exceeding the levels demanded by customers or should our customers decrease their orders with us, our operating results could be adversely affected due to costs of carrying the inventory and additional inventory write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory.. 8. Table of Contents. Work stoppages and other disruptions at transportation centers or shipping ports may adversely affect our ability to obtain inventory and make deliveries to our customers.. Our ability to rapidly process customer orders is an integral component of our overall business strategy. Interruptions at our company operated facilities or disruptions at a major transportation center or shipping port, due to events such as severe weather, labor interruptions, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other events, could affect our ability to maintain core products in inventory, deliver products to our customers on a timely basis or adversely affect demand for our products, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations.. Changes in our customers, product mix and pricing strategy could cause our gross margin percentage to decline in the future.. From time to time, we have experienced overall changes in the product mix demand of our customers. When customers or product mix changes, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our historical gross profit margins. Changes in our customers, product mix, volume of orders, prices charged, additional freight costs or lower productivity levels, could cause our gross profit margin percentage to decline. Our gross margin percentage may also come under pressure in the future if we increase the percentage of national accounts in our customer base, as sales to these customers are generally at lower margins.. Changes in energy costs and the cost of raw materials used in our products could impact our cost of goods and distribution and occupancy expenses, which may result in lower operating margins.. Increases in the cost of raw materials used in our products (e.g., steel, brass) and increases in energy costs raise the production costs of our vendors. Those vendors typically look to pass the higher costs along to us through price increases. If we are unable to fully pass these increased prices and costs through to our customers or to modify our activities, the impact would have an adverse effect on our operating profit margins. Additionally, continued low oil prices may result in weaker demand from oil and gas customers in the future, resulting in lower net sales.. Disruptions of our information and communication systems could adversely affect the Company.. We depend on our information and communication systems to process orders, purchase and manage inventory, maintain cost-effective operations, sell and ship products, manage accounts receivable collections and serve our customers. Disruptions in the operation of information and communication systems can occur due to a variety of factors including power outages, hardware failure, programming faults and human error. Disruptions in the operation of our information and communication systems, whether over a short or an extended period of time or affecting one or multiple distribution centers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Cyber attacks or other information security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, subject us to additional legal costs and damage our reputation in the marketplace.. We are increasingly dependent on digital technology to process and record financial and operating data and communicate with our employees and business partners. During the normal course of business we receive, retain and transmit certain confidential information that our customers provide to us to purchase products or services or otherwise communicate with us.. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of our business partners may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations, subject us to additional legal costs and damage our reputation in the marketplace. Although to date we have not experienced any losses relating to cyber attacks, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and fix any information security vulnerabilities.. 9. Table of Contents. The inability to successfully recruit, integrate and retain productive sales representatives could adversely affect our operating results.. We have committed to a plan to increase the size of our sales force which we believe will lead to increased sales and improve our long-term financial results.  A successful expansion in our sales force requires us to identify under served territories that offer the greatest potential growth opportunity, locate and recruit talented sales representatives, provide them with the proper training, and successfully integrate them into our organization. This expansion plan requires significant investment in capital and resources. The failure to identify the optimal sales territories, recruit and retain quality sales representatives and provide them with sufficient support could adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, we anticipate a short-term decrease in average sales per day per sales representative as new representatives build up customer relationships in their territories.. It is also critical to retain the experienced and productive sales representatives that have historically contributed to our success. Failure to retain a sufficient number of talented, experienced and productive sales representatives could adversely affect our financial and operating results.. Failure to retain talented employees, managers and executives could negatively impact our operating results.. Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, including executives and other key managers. The loss of certain key executives and managers or the failure to attract and develop talented employees could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The inability of management to successfully implement changes in operating processes, could lead to disruptions in our operations.. We are continually striving to improve operational efficiencies throughout our organization and to identify and initiate changes intended to improve our internal operations. The implementation of changes to our current operations involve a risk that the changes may not work as intended, may disrupt related processes, may not be properly applied or may not result in accomplishing the intended efficiencies. Failure to successfully manage the implementation of these changes could lead to disruptions in our operations.. The inability to successfully integrate acquisitions into our organization could adversely affect our operations and operating results.. One of our growth strategies is to actively pursue acquisition opportunities which fit our service oriented MRO business model. Failure to successfully identify the right opportunities and to successfully integrate their operations into our organization could adversely affect our operations and our operating results.. The Company is exposed to the risk of foreign currency changes.. Two of our subsidiaries are located and operate in Canada using the Canadian dollar as its functional currency. Operating results are translated into U.S. dollars when consolidated into our financial statements. Therefore, we are exposed to market risk relating to the change in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar that could adversely affect our financial position and operating results.. The Company operates in highly competitive markets.. The MRO marketplace is highly competitive. Our competitors include large and small companies with similar or greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing, and other resources. We believe the competition will continue to challenge our business with their product selection, financial resources and services.. Changes that affect governmental and other tax-supported entities could negatively impact our sales and earnings.. A portion of our sales are derived from the United States military and other governmental and tax-supported entities. These entities are largely dependent upon government budgets and require adherence to certain laws and regulations. A decrease in the levels of defense and other governmental spending or the introduction of more stringent governmental regulations and oversight, could lead to reduced sales or an increase in compliance costs which would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. 10. Table of Contents. A violation of federal, state or local environmental protection regulations could lead to significant penalties and fines or other remediation costs.. Our product offering includes a wide variety of industrial chemicals and other products which are subject to a multitude of federal, state and local regulations. These environmental protection laws change frequently and affect the composition, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of these products. Failure to comply with these regulations could lead to severe penalties and fines for each violation.. Additionally, a facility we own in Decatur, Alabama, was found to contain hazardous substances in the soil and groundwater as a result of historical operations prior to our ownership. We retained an environmental consulting firm to further investigate the contamination, including measurement and monitoring of the site. The Company has concluded that further remediation will most likely be required, and accordingly, has made an accrual for the estimated cost of this environmental matter. An agreement with Alabama's voluntary cleanup program has not yet been reached regarding these remediation approaches and additional procedures may be required to remediate the situation that could negatively impact our operating results.. Our results of operations could be affected by changes in taxation.. Our results of operations could be affected by changes in tax rates, audits by taxing authorities or changes in laws, regulations and their interpretation. Changes in applicable tax laws and regulations could continue to affect our ability to realize the deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which could affect our results of operations.. 11"
