[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. There are risks inherent in LCNB's operations, many beyond management's control, which may adversely affect its financial condition and results from operations and should be considered in evaluating the Company. Credit, market, operational, liquidity, interest rate and other risks are described elsewhere in this report. Other risk factors may include the items described below.. New capital requirements could adversely affect LCNB's capital ratios. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve Board approved the final rules implementing the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision's capital guidelines for U.S. bank holding companies as well as state banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System and savings and loan holding companies (commonly known as Basel III).  On July 9, 2013, the OCC adopted the same rules for national banks and federal savings associations, and the FDIC approved the same provisions, as an interim final rule, for state nonmember banks and state savings associations.. Under the final rules, minimum requirements will increase for both the quantity and quality of capital held by banks and savings associations. The rules include a new common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 4.5% and a common equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. The final rules also raise the minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets from 4.0% to 6.0% and require a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%.. The phase-in period for the final rules began for LCNB on January 1, 2015, with full compliance with all of the final rules' requirements phased in over a multi-year schedule through January 1, 2019. While management expects that LCNB's capital ratios under Basel III will continue to exceed the well capitalized minimum capital requirements, there can be no assurance that such will be the case. If LCNB is unable to meet or exceed the applicable minimum capital requirements, it may become subject to supervisory actions ranging in severity from losing its financial holding company status, to being precluded from making acquisitions or engaging in new activities or becoming subject to informal or formal regulatory enforcement actions.. LCNB's earnings are significantly affected by market interest rates.. Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively impact LCNB's profitability.  A primary source of income from operations is net interest income, which is equal to the difference between interest income earned on loans and investment securities and the interest paid for deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond LCNB's control, including general economic conditions, the slope of the yield curve (that is, the relationship between short and long-term interest rates), and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States Federal government.  LCNB expects the current level of interest rates and the current slope of the yield curve will cause further downward pressure on its net interest margin.. Increases in general interest rates could have a negative impact on LCNB's results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations.  Some residential real estate mortgage loans, most home equity line of credit loans, and many of LCNB's commercial loans have adjustable rates.  Borrower inability to make scheduled loan payments due to a higher loan cost could result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures, and write-offs and may necessitate additions to the allowance for loan losses.  In addition, increases in the general level of interest rates may decrease the demand for new consumer and commercial loans, thus limiting LCNB's growth and profitability.  A general increase in interest rates may also result in deposit disintermediation, which is the flow of deposits away from banks and other depository institutions into direct investments that have the potential for higher rates of return, such as stocks, bonds, and mutual funds.   If this occurs, LCNB may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future, which could negatively impact its net interest margin.. Gains from sales of mortgage loans may experience significant volatility.. Gains from sales of mortgage loans are highly influenced by the level and direction of mortgage interest rates, real estate activity, and refinancing activity.  Current historically low market interest rates created a refinancing demand for residential fixed-rate mortgage loans.  The increased volume of refinancing activity increased gains from sales of mortgage loans as LCNB sold most of these loans to the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.  An increase in market interest rates may decrease the demand for refinanced loans and decrease the gains from sales of mortgage loans recognized in LCNB's consolidated statements of income.  Gains from sales of mortgage loans may also be impacted by changes in LCNB's strategy to manage its residential mortgage portfolio. For example, LCNB may occasionally change the proportion of loan originations that are sold in the secondary market and instead add a greater proportion to its loan portfolio.. -. 15. -. Table of Contents. LCNB CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES. Banking competition in Southwestern and South Central Ohio is intense.. LCNB faces strong competition for deposits, loans, trust accounts, and other services from other banks, savings banks, credit unions, mortgage brokers, and other financial institutions.  Many of LCNB's competitors include major financial institutions that have been in business for many years and have established customer bases, numerous branches, and substantially higher regulatory lending limits. Competitors in the Southwestern and South Central Ohio areas include U.S. Bank, PNC Bank, Fifth Third Bank, Chase, KeyBank, Park National Bank, Huntington National Bank, and First Financial Bank. In addition, credit unions are growing larger due to more flexible membership requirement regulations and are offering more financial services than they legally could in the past.. LCNB also competes with numerous real estate brokerage firms, some owned by realty companies, for residential real estate mortgage loans.  Incentives offered by captive finance companies owned by the major automobile companies have limited the banking industry's opportunities for growth in the new automobile loan market.  The banking industry now competes with brokerage firms and mutual fund companies for funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits.  Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems.  Many of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures.. If LCNB is unable to attract and retain loan, deposit, brokerage, and trust customers, its growth and profitability levels may be negatively impacted.. Economic conditions in Southwestern and South Central Ohio could adversely affect LCNB's financial condition and results of operations.. LCNB conducts its operations from offices that are located in nine Southwestern and South Central Ohio counties, from which substantially all of its customer base is drawn.  Because of this geographic concentration of operations and customer base, LCNB's financial performance is heavily influenced by economic conditions in these areas.  Any material deterioration in economic conditions in these markets could have material direct or indirect adverse impacts on LCNB's customers and on LCNB.  Such deterioration could increase the number of customers experiencing financial distress, negatively impacting their ability to obtain new loans or to repay existing loans.  As a result, LCNB may experience increases in the levels of impaired loans, increased charge-offs, and increased provisions for loan losses.  Deteriorating economic conditions may also affect the ability of depositors to maintain or add to deposit balances and may affect the demand for loans, trust, brokerage, and other products and services offered by LCNB.  Such losses and decreased demand could have material adverse affects on LCNB's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The allowance for loan losses may be inadequate.. The provision for loan losses is determined by management based upon its evaluation of the amount needed to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level considered appropriate in relation to the estimated risk of losses inherent in the portfolio.  In addition to historic charge-off percentages, factors taken into consideration to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses include the nature, volume, and consistency of the loan portfolio, overall portfolio quality, a review of specific problem loans, the fair value of any underlying collateral, borrowers' cash flows, and current economic conditions that may affect borrowers' ability to make payments.  Increases in the allowance result in an expense for the period.   By its nature, the evaluation is imprecise and requires significant judgment.  Actual results may vary significantly from management's assumptions.  If, as a result of general economic conditions or a decrease in asset quality, management determines that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, LCNB will incur additional expenses.. LCNB's loan portfolio includes a substantial amount of commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans, which may have more risks than residential or consumer loans.. LCNB's commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans comprise a substantial portion of its total loan portfolio. These loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than home equity, residential mortgage, or consumer loans. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties, and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans.. -. 16. -. Table of Contents. LCNB CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES. The repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is often dependent upon the successful operation, development, or sale of the related real estate or commercial business and may, therefore, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. If the cash flow from operations is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In such cases, LCNB may take one or more actions to protect its financial interest in the loan.  Such actions may include foreclosure on the real estate securing the loan, taking possession of other collateral that may have been pledged as security for the loan, or modifying the terms of the loan.  If foreclosed on, commercial real estate is often unique and may not be as salable as a residential home.. The fair value of LCNB's investments could decline.. Most of LCNB's investment securities portfolio is designated as available-for-sale.  Accordingly, unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale portfolio is recorded as other comprehensive income, a separate component of shareholders' equity. The fair value of LCNB's investment portfolio may decline, causing a corresponding decline in shareholders' equity.  Management believes that several factors will affect the fair values of the investment portfolio including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates or expectations of changes, the degree of volatility in the securities markets, inflation rates or expectations of inflation, and the slope of the interest rate yield curve. These and other factors may impact specific categories of the portfolio differently and the effect any of these factors may have on any specific category of the portfolio cannot be predicted.. Many state and local governmental authorities have experienced deterioration of financial condition in recent years due to declining tax revenues, increased demand for services, and various other factors. To the extent LCNB has any municipal securities in its portfolio from issuers who are experiencing deterioration of financial condition or who may experience future deterioration of financial condition, the value of such securities may decline and could result in other-than-temporary impairment charges, which could have an adverse effect on LCNB's financial condition and results of operations.  Additionally, a general, industry-wide decline in the fair value of municipal securities could significantly affect LCNB's financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in income tax laws or interpretations or in accounting standards could materially affect LCNB's financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in income tax laws could be enacted, or interpretations of existing income tax laws could change, causing an adverse effect to LCNB's financial condition or results of operations. Similarly, new accounting standards may be issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\") or existing standards revised, changing the methods for preparing financial statements. These changes are not within LCNB's control and may significantly impact its reported financial condition and results of operations.. LCNB is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.. A significant portion of the Bank's loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Bank may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Bank may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Bank to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit the Bank's ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Bank's exposure to environmental liability. Although the Bank has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on LCNB's financial condition and results of operations.. The banking industry is highly regulated.. LCNB is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the Bank is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the OCC.   LCNB and the Bank are also subject to regulation and examination by the FDIC as the deposit insurer.  The CFPB is responsible for most consumer protection laws and has broad authority, with certain exceptions, to regulate financial products offered by banks.  Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including, but not limited to, changes in the ownership or control of banks, maintenance of adequate capital, permissible business operations, maintenance of deposit insurance, protection of customer financial privacy, the level of reserves held against deposits, restrictions on dividend payments, the making of loans, and the acceptance of deposits.  See the previous section titled \"Supervision and Regulation\" for more information on this subject.. -. 17. -. Table of Contents. LCNB CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES. Federal regulators may initiate various enforcement actions against a financial institution that violates laws or regulations or that operates in an unsafe or unsound manner.  These enforcement actions may include, but are not limited to, the assessment of civil money penalties, the issuance of cease-and-desist or removal orders, and the imposition of written agreements.. Proposals to change the laws governing financial institutions are periodically introduced in Congress and proposals to change regulations are periodically considered by the regulatory bodies.  Such future legislation and/or changes in regulations could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions.  The likelihood of any major changes in the future and their effects are impossible to predict.. Federal income tax reform could have unforeseen effects on our financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law H.R. 1, originally known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.\"  The Company is still in the process of analyzing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and its possible effects on the Company.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act includes a number of provisions, including the lowering of the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018.  There are also provisions that may partially offset the benefit of such rate reduction.  Financial statement impacts include adjustments for, among other things, the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities.  While there are benefits, there is also substantial uncertainty regarding the details of U.S. Tax Reform.  The intended and unintended consequences of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our business and on holders of our common shares is uncertain and could be adverse.  The Company anticipates that the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act may be material to our business, financial condition and results of operations.. FDIC deposit insurance assessments may materially increase in the future.. Deposits of LCNB are insured up to statutory limits by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and, accordingly, LCNB and other banks and financial institutions pay quarterly premiums to the FDIC to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund.  The likelihood and extent of future rate increases are indeterminable.. Future growth and expansion opportunities may contain risks.. From time to time LCNB may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions or may open new branch offices.  It may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services.  Such activities involve a number of risks, which may include potential inaccuracies in estimates and judgments used to evaluate the expansion opportunity, diversion of management and employee attention, lack of experience in a new market or product or service, and difficulties in integrating a future acquisition or introducing a new product or service.  There is no assurance that such growth or expansion activities will be successful or that they will achieve desired profitability levels.. The financial services industry, as well as the broader economy, may be subject to new legislation, regulation, and government policy.. At this time, it is difficult to predict the legislative and regulatory changes that will result from the combination of a new President of the United States and the first year since 2010 in which both Houses of Congress and the White House have majority memberships from the same political party.  In recent years, however, both the new President and senior members of the House of Representatives have advocated for significant reduction of financial services regulation, to include amendments to the Dodd-Frank Act and structural changes to the CFPB.  The new Administration and Congress also may cause broader economic changes due to changes in governing ideology and governing style.  New appointments to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve could affect monetary policy and interest rates and changes in fiscal policy could affect broader patterns of trade and economic growth.  Future legislation, regulation, and government policy could affect the banking industry as a whole, including LCNB's business and results of operations, in ways that are difficult to predict.  In addition, LCNB's results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the way in which existing statutes and regulations are interpreted or applied by courts and government agencies.. LCNB's controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. Management regularly reviews and updates LCNB's internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of LCNB's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to its controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on LCNB's business, results of operations, and financial condition.. -. 18. -. Table of Contents. LCNB CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES. LCNB's information systems may experience an interruption, cyberattack, or other breach in security.. LCNB relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business.  Significant resources are devoted to maintaining and regularly updating LCNB's data systems, there can be no assurance that these security measures will provide absolute security.  Any failure, interruption, cyberattack, or other breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in LCNB's customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While LCNB has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, cyberattack, or other security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such occurrences will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, cyberattacks, or other security breaches of LCNB's information systems could significantly disrupt LCNB's operations, allow misappropriation of LCNB's confidential information, allow misappropriation of customer confidential information, damage LCNB's reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject LCNB to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose LCNB to significant civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. LCNB continually encounters technological change.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. LCNB's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address customer needs by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in LCNB's operations. LCNB may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could negatively affect LCNB's growth, revenue and profit.. Emergence of nonbank alternatives to the financial system.. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions.  Technology and other changes, including the emergence of \"Fintech Companies,\" are allowing parties to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks.  For example, consumers can complete transactions, such as paying bills and/or transferring funds, directly without the assistance of banks.  The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as \"disintermediation,\" could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits.  The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risk factors related to LCNB's trust business.. Competition for trust business is intense.  Competitors include other commercial bank and trust companies, brokerage firms, investment advisory firms, mutual fund companies, accountants, and attorneys.. LCNB's trust business is directly affected by conditions in the debt and equity securities markets.  The debt and equity securities markets are affected by, among other factors, domestic and foreign economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States Federal government, all of which are beyond LCNB's control.  Changes in economic conditions may directly affect the economic performance of the trust accounts in which clients' assets are invested.  A decline in the fair value of the trust accounts caused by a decline in general economic conditions directly affects LCNB's trust fee income because such fees are primarily based on the fair value of the trust accounts.  In addition, a sustained decrease in the performance of the trust accounts or a lack of sustained growth may encourage clients to seek alternative investment options.. The management of trust accounts is subject to the risk of mistaken distributions, poor investment choices, and miscellaneous other incorrect decisions.  Such mistakes may give rise to surcharge actions by beneficiaries, with damages substantially in excess of the fees earned from management of the accounts.. LCNB's ability to pay cash dividends is limited.. LCNB is dependent upon the earnings of the Bank for funds to pay dividends on its common shares.  The payment of dividends by LCNB and the Bank is subject to certain regulatory restrictions.  As a result, any payment of dividends in the future will be dependent, in large part, on the ability of LCNB and the Bank to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and on the Bank's earnings, capital levels, financial condition, and other factors.  Although LCNB's financial earnings and financial condition have allowed it to declare and pay periodic cash dividends to shareholders, there can be no assurance that the current dividend policy or the amount of dividend distributions will continue in the future.. -. 19. -. Table of Contents. LCNB CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES"
