[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. Please see the \"Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Industry Data\" at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of some of the forward-looking statements that are qualified by these risk factors. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related to Leap's Financial Position and Capital Needs. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses in the future.. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company. Investment in biopharmaceutical product development is highly speculative because it entails substantial upfront capital expenditures and significant risk that our two product candidates, DKN-01 and TRX518, or any other products will fail to gain regulatory approval or become commercially viable. We have only two clinical-stage product candidates, which are at the early stages of clinical development. We do not have any products approved by regulatory authorities for marketing and have not generated any revenue from product sales. We incur significant research, development and other expenses related to our ongoing operations.. As a result, we are not profitable and have incurred losses in every reporting period since our inception in 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we reported a net loss of $29.7 million, and had an accumulated deficit of $130.4 million at December 31, 2017.. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and operating losses for the foreseeable future. We anticipate these losses to increase as we continue the research and development of, and seek regulatory approvals for DKN-01 and TRX518, and we potentially begin to commercialize DKN-01 and TRX518, if they receive regulatory approval. We may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may adversely affect our business. The size of our future net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of future growth of our expenses and our ability to generate revenues. If either or both of DKN-01 or TRX518 fails in clinical trials or does not gain regulatory approval, or if approved, fails to achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods.. We currently have no source of product revenue and may never become profitable.. We have not generated any revenues, and we have no commercial products. Our ability to generate revenue from product sales and achieve profitability will depend upon our ability to successfully gain regulatory approval and commercialize DKN-01 or TRX518 or other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire in the future. Even if we are able to successfully achieve regulatory approval, we do not know when we will generate revenue from product sales, if at all. Our ability to generate revenue from product sales from any product candidates also depends on a number of additional factors, including our ability to:. <U+0095> successfully complete development activities, including enrollment of study participants and completion of the necessary clinical trials;     <U+0095> complete and submit new drug applications, or NDAs, or biologics license applications, or BLAs, to the FDA and obtain regulatory approval for indications for which there is a commercial market;. 31. Table of Contents. <U+0095> complete and submit applications to, and obtain regulatory approval from, foreign regulatory authorities;     <U+0095> make or have made commercial quantities of our products at acceptable cost levels;    <U+0095> develop a commercial organization capable of manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution for any products we intend to sell ourselves in the markets in which we choose to commercialize on our own;    <U+0095> find suitable partners to help us market, sell and distribute our approved products in other markets; and     <U+0095> obtain adequate pricing, coverage and reimbursement from third parties, including government and private payors.. In addition, because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with product development, including that DKN-01 or TRX518 may not advance through development or achieve the endpoints of applicable clinical trials, we are unable to predict the timing or amount of increased expenses, or when or if we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Even if we are able to complete the development and regulatory process for DKN-01 and/or TRX518, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing these products, including in building the requisite sales and marketing capabilities to sell such products (which itself may pose financial and operational risks).. Even if we are able to generate revenues from the sale of our products, we may not become profitable and will need to obtain additional funding to continue operations. If we fail to become profitable or are unable to sustain profitability on a continuing basis, and we are not successful in obtaining additional funding, then we may be unable to continue our operations at planned levels.. We will require additional capital to fund our operations and if we fail to obtain necessary financing, we may be unable to complete the development and potential commercialization of DKN-01 or TRX518 or acquire other products.. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to advance the clinical development of DKN-01 and TRX518 and launch and commercialize these product candidates, if we receive regulatory approval. We will require additional capital for the further development and potential commercialization. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or any future commercialization efforts.. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could deploy our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Our future funding requirements, both near and long-term, will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to the:. <U+0095> initiation, progress, timing, costs and results of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials for our product candidates;     <U+0095> costs and timing of additional clinical trial and commercial manufacturing activities;    <U+0095> clinical development plans we establish for DKN-01, TRX518, and any other future product candidates;     <U+0095> number and characteristics of any new product candidates that we in-license and develop;. 32. Table of Contents. <U+0095> outcome, timing and cost of regulatory review by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including the potential for the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities to require that we perform more studies than those that we currently expect;    <U+0095> costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and maintaining and enforcing other intellectual property rights;     <U+0095> effect of competing product candidates and market developments; and    <U+0095> costs and timing of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for any product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval.. If we are unable to fund our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities due to a lack of capital, our ability to become profitable will be compromised.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our product candidates.. Until we can generate substantial revenue from product sales, if ever, we expect to seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings, strategic collaborations and alliances and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interests of existing stockholders will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of existing stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include liens or other restrictive covenants limiting our ability to take important actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market our product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves. If we raise additional funds through strategic collaborations and alliances or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our product candidates in particular countries, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us.. Future utilization of net operating loss carryfowards may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $81.6 million, $63.5 million and $70.0 million, respectively, which begin to expire in 2036. We may be able to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future federal and state income tax liabilities. However, these net operating losses are subject to various limitations under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (\"IRC\"). In accordance with Section 382 of the IRC, a change in equity ownership of greater than 50% of the Company within a three-year period can result in an annual limitation on the Company's ability to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards that were created during tax periods prior to the change in ownership. A change in ownership may result from the issuance of common or preferred shares of the Company, among other events.. We rely on a Research & Development Incentive program to finance our operations in Australia, which could be amended or changed.. We have also financed our business operations through R&D Incentive income. The research and development tax incentive is one of the key elements of Australian Government's support for Australia's innovation system and if eligible, provides the recipient with a refundable tax offset for research and development activities. For the year ended December 31, 2017 we recorded research and development incentive income receivable of $1.7 million, representing the applicable percentage of our expected eligible expenses net of our current Australia tax liability. For the 2017 financial year, the. 33. Table of Contents. refundable research and development rate was 43.5% of eligible expenses rather than the 45% rate of our 2016 fiscal year. There are proposals to cap the total refundable payments to Australian $2 million on an annual basis. There can be no assurance that we will continue to qualify and be eligible for such incentives or that the Australian Government will continue to provide incentives, offset, grants and rebates on similar terms or at all.. A large majority of the Company's shares are held by a few stockholders, some of whom are affiliated with members of the Company's management and our board of directors. As these principal stockholders substantially control the Company's corporate actions, our other stockholders may face difficulty in exerting any influence over matters not supported by these principal stockholders.. The Company's principal stockholders include HealthCare Ventures VIII, L.P., HealthCare Ventures IX, L.P. and HealthCare Ventures Strategic Fund, L.P. (the \"Funds\") and Eli Lilly and Company. Each of Christopher Mirabelli, our Chief Executive Officer, Douglas Onsi, our Chief Financial Officer, Augustine Lawlor, our Chief Operating Officer, John Littlechild, a director, and James Cavanaugh, a director, are affiliated with the Funds and may be deemed to have an indirect beneficial ownership interest in the stock owned by the Funds. As of February 21, 2018, these principal stockholders collectively owned approximately 65% of the Company's then outstanding shares of common stock. These stockholders, acting individually or as a group, may be able to exert control over matters such as electing directors, amending the Company's certificate of incorporation or bylaws, and approving mergers or other business combinations or transactions. In addition, because of the percentage of ownership and voting concentration in these principal stockholders, elections of the Company's board of directors may be within the control of these stockholders. While all of the Company's stockholders are entitled to vote on matters submitted to the Company's stockholders for approval, the concentration of shares and voting control presently lies with these principal stockholders. As such, it would be difficult for stockholders to propose and have approved proposals not supported by these principal stockholders. There can be no assurance that matters voted upon by the Company's officers and directors in their capacity as stockholders will be viewed favorably by all stockholders of the Company's company. The stock ownership of the Company's principal stockholders may discourage a potential acquirer from seeking to acquire shares of the Company's common stock which, in turn, could reduce the Company's stock price or prevent the Company's stockholders from realizing a premium over the Company's stock price.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process.. The results of preclinical studies, preliminary study results, and early clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials or the ultimately completed trial. For instance, while we have preliminary study results for our clinical studies of DKN-01 in esophageal cancer and biliary tract cancer, as well as our two clinical studies of TRX518, these studies are still ongoing and the ultimate study results may be different than the preliminary ones we have seen to date. Moreover, while we have seen preliminary favorable results in individual study subjects, these results may not be representative of the ultimate study population. Finally, the clinical trials conducted to date for DKN-01 and TRX518 are relatively small, open-label, uncontrolled studies. Preliminary and final results from such studies may not be representative of study results that are found in larger, controlled, blinded, and more long term studies.. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical trials. Preclinical studies may also reveal unfavorable product candidate characteristics, including safety concerns. In some instances, there can be significant variability in safety or efficacy results between different clinical trials. 34. Table of Contents. of the same product candidate due to numerous factors, including changes in trial procedures set forth in protocols, the impact of an active comparator arm, differences in the size and type of the patient populations, changes in and adherence to the clinical trial protocols, changes in medical prescribing practices, and the rate of dropout among clinical trial participants.. Our future clinical trial results may not be successful. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials. Moreover, should there be a flaw in a clinical trial, it may not become apparent until the clinical trial is well advanced. Further, because we currently plan to develop our product candidates for use with established oncology products, the design, implementation, and interpretation of the clinical trials necessary for marketing approval may be more complex than if we were developing our product candidates alone.. We may also experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or adversely affect our existing or future development programs, including:. <U+0095> we may have delays in identifying and adding new investigators or clinical trial sites, we may experience delays in reaching, or fail to reach, agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective trial sites and our CROs or we may experience a withdrawal of clinical trial sites;     <U+0095> the number of patients required for clinical trials of our product candidates may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in these clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate or participants may drop out of these clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate;    <U+0095> clinical trials of our product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, or our studies may fail to reach the necessary level of statistical significance, and we may decide to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs;    <U+0095> we may not be able to demonstrate that a product candidate provides an advantage over current standards of care or current or future competitive therapies in development.    <U+0095> the cost of clinical trials of our product candidates may be greater than we anticipate or we may have insufficient funds for a clinical trial;     <U+0095> the supply or quality of the clinical trial material of our product candidates may be insufficient or inadequate to conduct clinical trials; and    <U+0095> there may be changes to the therapeutics or their regulatory status which we are administering in combination with our product candidates or changes to standard of care, which require that we change our study design, or otherwise halt, discontinue or delay our clinical studies. This occurred for a multiple myeloma study that we were conducting. In that case, the standard of care changed such that we were no longer able to recruit study subjects under the study protocol.. The regulatory approval processes of the FDA and comparable foreign authorities are lengthy, time consuming and inherently unpredictable, especially for an early-stage company such as ours. If we are not able to obtain, or if there are delays in obtaining, required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates as expected, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired.. Because we are at the early stages of the clinical and regulatory development of our product candidates, the time required to obtain approval for them from the FDA and comparable foreign authorities is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials and depends upon numerous factors, including the substantial discretion of the regulatory authorities.. 35. Table of Contents. In addition, approval policies, regulations, or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during the course of a product candidate's clinical development and may vary among jurisdictions. These may require us to amend our clinical trial protocols, conduct additional studies that require regulatory or institutional review board, or IRB, approval, or otherwise cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. We have not obtained regulatory approval for any product candidate and it is possible that none of our existing product candidates or any product candidates we may seek to develop in the future, will ever obtain regulatory approval. Moreover, we have only completed early studies and enrolled limited numbers of patients for both DKN-01 and TRX518. Both DKN-01 and TRX518 will require additional preclinical and clinical development, as well as additional manufacturing development before we will be able to submit marketing applications to FDA. Moreover, should FDA determine that a companion diagnostic device is required for use of our product candidates or should we decide to pursue the development of a companion diagnostic device for the use of our product candidates, further development work would be required for such a device, including, possibly the approval of an Investigational Device Exemption for the study of such a device from FDA, compliance with FDA's device regulations, and either FDA clearance or approval of the device for commercial use. Such development would potentially take additional time and be subject to the risk of FDA non-approval or clearance of the diagnostic. Any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability or that of any of our future collaborators to generate revenue from the particular product candidate, which likely would result in significant harm to our financial position and adversely impact our stock price.. Our product candidates and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including their design, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, marketing, promotion, sale, and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by the EMA, and similar regulatory authorities outside the United States and Europe. Failure to obtain marketing approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing the product candidate. We have no experience in filing and supporting the applications necessary to gain marketing approvals and expect to rely on third-party clinical research organizations, or CROs, and consultants to assist us in this process. Securing marketing approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to regulatory authorities for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate's safety, purity, and potency for that indication. Securing marketing approval also requires the submission of information about the product manufacturing process to, and inspection of manufacturing facilities and clinical trial sites by, the regulatory authorities.. We may also experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or prevent our ability to receive marketing approval or commercialize our product candidates, including:. <U+0095> regulators or IRBs may not authorize us or our investigators to commence a clinical trial or to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site, we may fail to reach an agreement with regulators or IRBs regarding the scope, design, or implementation of our clinical trials or regulators or IRBs may require that we modify or amend our clinical trial protocols;    <U+0095> our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements, standard operating procedures or the clinical trial protocol, or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner, or at all, or we may be required to engage in additional clinical trial site monitoring or manufacturing activities;     <U+0095> we, the regulators, or IRBs may require that we or our investigators suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, undesirable side effects, or other unexpected characteristics of the product candidate, or due to findings of. 36. Table of Contents. undesirable effects caused by a chemically or mechanistically similar therapeutic or therapeutic candidate;   <U+0095> changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations;    <U+0095> there may be changes in marketing approval or regulatory review policies during the development period rendering our data insufficient to obtain marketing approval;    <U+0095> we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials, analyses, reports, data, or preclinical trials, or we may abandon product development programs;    <U+0095> there may be regulatory questions or disagreements regarding interpretations of data and results, or new information may emerge regarding our product candidates, the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our study design or our interpretation of data from preclinical studies and clinical trials or find that a product candidate's benefits do not outweigh its safety risks;    <U+0095> the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities may disagree with our intended indications;    <U+0095> the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may fail to approve or subsequently find fault with the manufacturing processes or our manufacturing facilities for clinical and future commercial supplies;    <U+0095> the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates or any additional product candidate may not be sufficient to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities to support the submission of a BLA, or other comparable submission in foreign jurisdictions or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere; and    <U+0095> the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities may take longer than we anticipate to make a decision on our product candidates.. Regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent marketing approval of a product candidate. The number and types of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for regulatory approval also varies depending on the product candidate, the disease or condition that the product candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular product candidate.. Approval policies, regulations or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during the course of a product candidate's clinical development and may vary among jurisdictions, and there may be varying interpretations of data obtained from preclinical studies or clinical trials, either of which may cause delays or limitations in the approval or the decision not to approve an application. It is possible that neither of our product candidates nor any product candidates we may seek to develop in the future will ever obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us or any future collaborators to commence product sales.. Finally, even if we were to obtain approval, regulatory authorities may approve any of our product candidates for fewer or more limited indications or uses than we request, may contain significant safety warnings, including black box warnings, contraindications, and precautions, may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials, surveillance, or other requirements, including risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, or REMS, to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product, or may approve a product candidate with a label that does not include the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of that product candidate. Any of these scenarios could compromise the commercial prospects for our product candidates.. 37. Table of Contents. If we experience delays in obtaining approval, if we fail to obtain approval of a product candidate or if the label for a product candidate does not include the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of that product candidate, the commercial prospects for such product candidate may be harmed and our ability to generate revenues from that product candidate will be materially impaired.. If we experience delays or difficulties in the enrollment of patients in clinical trials, our receipt of necessary regulatory approvals could be delayed or prevented.. We may not be able to initiate or continue conducting clinical trials for our product candidates if we are unable to locate and enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in these trials as required by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States. Some of our competitors have ongoing clinical trials for product candidates that treat the same indications or use the same mechanism of action as our product candidates, and patients who would otherwise be eligible for our clinical trials may instead enroll in clinical trials of our competitors' product candidates. Patient enrollment is affected by other factors including:. <U+0095> the size and nature of the patient population;    <U+0095> the severity of the disease under investigation;    <U+0095> the eligibility criteria for, and design of, the clinical trial in question, including factors such as frequency of required assessments, length of the study and ongoing monitoring requirements;    <U+0095> the perceived risks and benefits of the product candidate under study, including the potential advantages or disadvantages of the product candidate being studied in relation to other available therapies;    <U+0095> competition in recruiting and enrolling patients in clinical trials;    <U+0095> the efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials;    <U+0095> the patient referral practices of physicians;    <U+0095> effectiveness of publicity created by clinical trial sites regarding the trial;    <U+0095> patients' ability to comply with the specific instructions related to the trial protocol, proper documentation, and use of the biologic product;    <U+0095> our inability to obtain or maintain patient informed consents;    <U+0095> the risk that enrolled patients will drop out before completion or not return for post-treatment follow-up;     <U+0095> the ability to monitor patients adequately during and after treatment; and    <U+0095> the proximity and availability of clinical trial sites for prospective patients.. Our inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients for our clinical trials would result in significant delays and could require us to abandon one or more clinical trials altogether.. Enrollment delays in our clinical trials may result in increased development costs for our product candidates, or the inability to complete development of our product candidates, which would materially impair our ability to generate revenues, limit our ability to obtain additional financing and cause the value of our company to decline.. 38. Table of Contents. The FDA may determine that any of our current or future product candidates have undesirable side effects that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization.. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could cause us, IRBs, and other reviewing entities or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay, or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restrictive label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other comparable foreign authorities. For example, if concerns are raised regarding the safety of a new therapeutic as a result of undesirable side effects identified during clinical or preclinical testing, the FDA may order us to cease further development, decline to approve a product candidate or issue a letter requesting additional data or information prior to making a final decision regarding whether or not to approve the biologic. FDA requests for additional data or information can result in substantial delays in the approval of a new biologic.. Undesirable side effects caused by any of our current or future product candidates could also result in denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other comparable foreign authorities for any or all targeted indications or the inclusion of unfavorable information in our product labeling, such as limitations on the indicated uses for which the products may be marketed or distributed, a label with significant safety warnings, including boxed warnings, contraindications, and precautions, a label without statements necessary or desirable for successful commercialization, or may result in requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance, or other requirements, including REMS, to monitor the safety or efficacy of the products, and in turn prevent us from commercializing and generating revenues from the sale of our current or future product candidates.. If any of our product candidates is associated with serious adverse events or undesirable side effects or have properties that are unexpected, we may need to abandon development or limit development of that product candidate to certain uses or subpopulations in which the undesirable side effects or other characteristics are less prevalent, less severe or more acceptable from a risk-benefit perspective. The therapeutic-related side effects could affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled patients to complete the trial or result in potential product liability claims. Any of these occurrences may significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. Failure to obtain marketing approval in international jurisdictions would prevent our product candidates from being marketed abroad.. In order to market and sell our products in the European Union and other jurisdictions, we or our third-party collaborators must obtain separate marketing approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, in some cases involving clinical trials involving subjects from the country. The time required to obtain approval may differ substantially from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process outside the United States generally includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, it is required that the product be approved for reimbursement before the product can be approved for sale in that country. We or these third parties may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the United States on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one regulatory authority outside the United States does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. However, the failure to obtain approval in one jurisdiction may compromise our ability to obtain approval elsewhere. We may not be able to file for marketing approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market.. 39. Table of Contents. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, we will be subject to ongoing obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense. Additionally, any of our product candidates, if approved, could be subject to labeling and other restrictions and market withdrawal and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with our products.. Any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval will be subject to extensive and ongoing requirements of and review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, including requirements related to the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, recordkeeping, export, import, advertising, marketing, and promotional activities for such product. These requirements further include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information, including manufacturing deviations and reports, registration and listing requirements, the payment of annual fees for our product candidates, if approved, and the establishments at which they are manufactured, continued compliance with cGMP requirements relating to manufacturing, quality control, quality assurance, and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping, and good clinical practices, or GCPs, for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval.. Even if marketing approval of a product candidate is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses and populations for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, including significant safety warnings, including boxed warnings, contraindications, and precautions that are not desirable for successful commercialization and any requirement to implement a REMS that render the approved product not commercially viable or other post-market requirements or restrictions. Moreover, the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities will continue to closely monitor the safety profile of any product even after approval. If the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities become aware of new safety information after approval of any of our product candidates, they may withdraw approval, require labeling changes or establishment of a REMS or similar strategy, impose significant restrictions on a product's indicated uses or marketing, or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies or post-market surveillance. Any such restrictions could limit sales of the product.. We and any of our collaborators, including our contract manufacturers, could be subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA to monitor and ensure compliance with cGMPs. Application holders must further notify the FDA, and depending on the nature of the change, obtain FDA pre-approval for product and manufacturing changes. Application fees may apply to certain changes.. In addition, later discovery of previously unknown adverse events or that the product is less effective than previously thought or other problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements both before and after approval, may yield various results, including:. <U+0095> restrictions on manufacturing or distribution, or marketing of such products;    <U+0095> restrictions on the labeling, including required additional warnings, such as black box warnings, contraindications, precautions, and restrictions on the approved indication or use;    <U+0095> modifications to promotional pieces;    <U+0095> requirements to conduct post-marketing studies or clinical trials;    <U+0095> clinical holds or termination of clinical trials;    <U+0095> requirements to establish or modify a REMS or a comparable foreign authority may require that we establish or modify a similar strategy, that may, for instance, require us to create a Medication Guide outlining the risks of the previously unidentified side effects for distribution. 40. Table of Contents. to patients, or restrict distribution of the product, if and when approved, and impose burdensome implementation requirements on us;   <U+0095> changes to the way the biologic is administered;    <U+0095> liability for harm caused to patients or subjects;    <U+0095> reputational harm;    <U+0095> the product becoming less competitive;    <U+0095> warning, untitled, or cyber letters;    <U+0095> suspension of marketing or withdrawal of the products from the market;    <U+0095> regulatory authority issuance of safety alerts, Dear Healthcare Provider letters, press releases, or other communications containing warnings or other safety information about the biologic;    <U+0095> refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit;    <U+0095> recalls of products;    <U+0095> fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenues;    <U+0095> suspension or withdrawal of marketing approvals;    <U+0095> refusal to permit the import or export of our products;    <U+0095> product seizure or detention;    <U+0095> FDA debarment, debarment from government contracts, and refusal of future orders under existing contracts, exclusion from federal healthcare programs, consent decrees, or corporate integrity agreements; or    <U+0095> injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, including imprisonment.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the particular product candidate, if approved, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing such product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale. Any of these events could further have other material and adverse effects on our operations and business and could adversely impact our stock price and could significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. Laws, regulatory policies, and medical practices could change in ways that are not favorable to us.. The FDA's policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates, that could limit the marketability of our product candidates, or that could impose additional regulatory obligations on us if our product candidates are approved. Changes in medical practice and standard of care may also impact the marketability of our product candidates. For instance, because we are currently planning to develop our product candidates for use with other cancer therapies, should there be a change to the regulatory status of the other therapy or should the standard of care change, the marketability of our product candidates would be impacted.. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements, standards of care, or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and be subject to regulatory enforcement action. Should any of the above actions take place, they could adversely affect our ability to achieve or sustain profitability. Further, the cost of compliance with post-approval regulations may have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition.. 41. Table of Contents. Risks Related to the Development and Commercialization of Our Product Candidates. The therapeutic safety and efficacy of DKN-01 and TRX518 is unproven, and we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize DKN-01 or TRX518.. DKN-01 and TRX518 are novel monoclonal antibodies and their potential benefit as a therapeutic cancer drug is unproven. Our ability to generate revenues from the sales of our products, which we do not expect will occur in the short term, if ever, will depend on successful development and commercialization after approval, if achieved, which is subject to many potential risks. DKN-01 or TRX518 may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. If either DKN-01 or TRX518 is associated with undesirable side effects or has characteristics that are unexpected, we may need to abandon its development or limit development to certain uses or subpopulations in which the undesirable side effects or other characteristics are less prevalent, less severe or more acceptable from a risk-benefit perspective. Many compounds that initially showed promise in early stage testing for treating cancer have later been found to be ineffective in later stage studies or cause side effects that prevented further development of the compound. As a result of these and other risks described herein that are inherent in the development of novel therapeutic agents, we may never successfully develop, enter into or maintain third party licensing or collaboration transactions with respect to, or successfully commercialize DKN-01 or TRX518, in which case we will not achieve profitability and the value of our stock may decline.. The results of pre-clinical studies or early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and DKN-01 or TRX518 may not have favorable results in later clinical trials or receive regulatory approval.. Success in pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will generate adequate data to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of DKN-01 or TRX518. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including those with greater resources and experience than we have, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after seeing promising results in earlier clinical trials. Despite the results reported in earlier preclinical and clinical trials for DKN-01 and TRX518, we do not know whether the clinical trials we may conduct will demonstrate adequate efficacy and safety to result in regulatory approval to market DKN-01 or TRX518 in any particular jurisdiction. If our clinical trials do not produce favorable results, our ability to achieve regulatory approval for DKN-01 or TRX518 will be adversely impacted and the value of our stock may decline.. Our future success is dependent primarily on the regulatory approval and commercialization of DKN-01 and TRX518, which are currently undergoing early stage clinical trials.. We do not have any products that have gained regulatory approval. Currently, our only clinical-stage product candidates are DKN-01 and TRX518. As a result, our business is substantially dependent on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and, if approved, to successfully commercialize DKN-01 or TRX518 or other products in a timely manner. We cannot commercialize these products in the U.S. without first obtaining regulatory approval from the FDA; similarly, we cannot commercialize these products outside of the U.S. without obtaining regulatory approval from comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of these products for a target indication, we must demonstrate with substantial evidence gathered in pre-clinical studies and well-controlled clinical trials, that these products are safe and effective for use for that target indication and that the manufacturing facilities, processes and controls are adequate. Even if these products were to successfully obtain approval from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, any approval might contain significant limitations related to use restrictions for specified age groups, warnings, precautions or contraindications, or may be subject to burdensome post-approval study or risk management requirements. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval in one or more jurisdictions, or any approval contains significant limitations, we may not be able to obtain sufficient. 42. Table of Contents. funding or generate sufficient revenue to continue the development of any other product candidate that we may discover, in-license, develop or acquire in the future. Furthermore, even if we obtain regulatory approval for our products, we will still need to develop a commercial organization or strategy, establish commercially viable pricing and obtain approval for adequate reimbursement from third-party and government payors. If we are unable to successfully commercialize our products, we may not be able to earn sufficient revenues to continue our business.. Our commercial success depends upon attaining significant market acceptance of DKN-01 or TRX518, if approved, among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the major operators of cancer clinics.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for DKN-01 or TRX518, DKN-01 or TRX518 may not gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors, patients or the medical community. Market acceptance of DKN-01 or TXR518, if we receive approval, depends on a number of factors, including the:. <U+0095> efficacy and safety of DKN-01 or TRX518 each as demonstrated in clinical trials and post-marketing experience;     <U+0095> clinical indications for which DKN-01 or TRX518 is approved;    <U+0095> acceptance by physicians, major operators of cancer clinics and patients of DKN-01 or TRX518 as a safe and effective treatment;     <U+0095> potential and perceived advantages of DKN-01 or TRX518 over alternative treatments;    <U+0095> product labeling or product insert requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities;    <U+0095> timing of market introduction of DKN-01 or TRX518 as well as competitive products;    <U+0095> cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments;    <U+0095> availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement and pricing by third-party payors and government authorities;     <U+0095> relative convenience and ease of administration; and    <U+0095> effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts.. Moreover, if DKN-01 or TRX518 is approved but fails to achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients, or healthcare payors, we may not be able to generate significant revenues, which would compromise our ability to become profitable.. If we are unable to establish effective marketing and sales capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, if they are approved, we may be unable to generate product revenues.. We currently do not have a commercial infrastructure for the marketing, sale, and distribution of pharmaceutical products. If approved, in order to commercialize our products, we must build our marketing, sales, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. We may not be successful in doing so. Should we decide to develop our own marketing capabilities, we will incur substantial expenses prior to product launch or even approval in order to recruit a sales force and develop a marketing and sales infrastructure. If a commercial launch is delayed as a result of FDA requirements or other reasons, we would incur these expenses prior to being able to realize any revenue from sales of our product candidates. Even if we are able to effectively hire a sales force and develop a marketing and sales infrastructure, our sales force and marketing teams may not be successful in commercializing our current or future product candidates.. 43. Table of Contents. We have no prior experience in the marketing, sale, and distribution of pharmaceutical products, and there are significant risks involved in the building and managing of a commercial infrastructure. The establishment and development of commercial capabilities, including compliance plans, to market any products we may develop will be expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch, and we may not be able to successfully develop this capability. We, or our future collaborators, will have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train, manage, and retain marketing and sales personnel.. We may also or alternatively decide to collaborate with a third-party marketing and sales organization to commercialize any approved product candidates, in which event, our ability to generate product revenue may be reduced. To the extent we rely on third parties to commercialize any products for which we obtain regulatory approval, we may receive less revenue than if we commercialized these products ourselves. In addition, we would have less control over the sales efforts of any other third parties involved in our commercialization efforts, and could be held liable if they failed to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements.. Even if we are able to commercialize DKN-01 or TRX518, DKN-01 or TRX518 may not receive coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payors, which could harm our business.. Our ability to commercialize DKN-01 or TRX518 successfully will depend, in part, on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement for DKN-01 or TRX518 and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, determine which medications they will cover and establish reimbursement levels. We cannot be sure that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be available for DKN-01 or TRX518 and, if reimbursement is available, what the level of reimbursement will be. Coverage and reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, DKN-01 or TRX518, if we obtain marketing approval. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize DKN-01 or TRX518, if we obtain marketing approval.. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage and reimbursement for newly approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the drug is approved by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Moreover, eligibility for coverage and reimbursement does not imply that any drug will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement policies. Our inability to obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for any approved products that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products and our overall financial condition.. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before, or more successfully than, we do.. The development and commercialization of new drug products is highly competitive, especially in the oncology space in which we operate. We face competition with respect to DKN-01 and TRX518, and will face competition with respect to any other product candidates that we may seek to develop or commercialize in the future, from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. There are a number of large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that currently market and sell products or are pursuing the development of products for the treatment of cancer. Some of these competitive products and therapies are based on scientific approaches that are the same as or similar to our approach for DKN-01 or TRX518, and others are based on entirely different approaches. For example, there are several companies developing. 44. Table of Contents. product candidates that target the same cancer pathways that we are targeting or that are testing product candidates in the same cancer indications that we are testing. For example, Novartis AG, or Novartis, Merck & Co., or Merck, and Pfizer, Inc. are all currently developing or have previously been developing anti-DKK1 monoclonal antibodies. Additionally, Merck, Novartis, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, AstraZeneca PLC, and Incyte Corporation, are all developing a GITR agonist monoclonal antibody.. More established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their greater size, cash flows and institutional experience. Compared to us, many of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products before we are able to, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize DKN-01 or TRX518. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are safer, more effective, more widely used and cheaper than ours, and may also be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. These appreciable advantages could render DKN-01 or TRX518 non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of development and commercialization.. Our product candidates may face biosimilar competition sooner than anticipated.. The enactment of the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCIA, as part of the Affordable Care Act, or ACA, created an abbreviated pathway for the approval of biosimilar and interchangeable biological products. The abbreviated regulatory pathway establishes legal authority for the FDA to review and approve biosimilar biologics, including the possible designation of a biosimilar as \"interchangeable\" based on its similarity to an existing brand product. Under the BPCIA, an application for a biosimilar product cannot be approved by the FDA until 12 years after the original branded product was approved under a BLA.. We believe our product candidates approved as a biological product under a BLA should qualify for the BPCIA's 12-year period of exclusivity. However, this period of regulatory exclusivity does not apply to companies pursuing regulatory approval via their own traditional BLA, rather than via the abbreviated pathway. Moreover, the extent to which a biosimilar, once approved, will be substituted for any one of our reference products in a way that is similar to traditional generic substitution for non-biological products is not yet clear, and will depend on a number of marketplace and regulatory factors that are still developing.. The law is complex and is still being interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its ultimate impact, implementation, and meaning are subject to uncertainty. While it is uncertain when such processes intended to implement the BPCIA may be fully adopted by the FDA, any such processes could have a material adverse effect on the future commercial prospects for our biological products. Future proposed budgets, international trade agreements and other arrangements or proposals may also affect periods of exclusivity in the future.. We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for our current or future product candidates and may have to limit their commercialization.. The use of our current or future product candidates in clinical trials, and the sale of any of our product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval, exposes us to the risk of product liability claims. We face inherent risk of product liability related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercially sell any product candidates that we may develop. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers or others using, administering or selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit. 45. Table of Contents. commercialization of our product candidates. Even successful defense would require significant financial and management resources.. While we currently carry insurance that we believe is appropriate for a company at our stage of development, our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on therapeutics that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business and our prospects.. Laws and regulations governing international operations may preclude us from developing, manufacturing and selling product candidates outside of the U.S. and require us to develop and implement costly compliance programs.. As we seek to expand our operations outside of the U.S., we must comply with numerous laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we plan to operate. The creation and implementation of international business practices compliance programs is costly and such programs are difficult to enforce, particularly where reliance on third parties is required.. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the U.S. to comply with certain accounting provisions requiring such companies to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations. The anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA are enforced primarily by the Department of Justice, or DOJ. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the Commission, is involved with enforcement of the books and records provisions of the FCPA.. Compliance with the FCPA is expensive and difficult, particularly in countries in which corruption is a recognized problem. In addition, the FCPA presents particular challenges in the pharmaceutical industry, because, in many countries, hospitals are operated by the government, and doctors and other hospital employees are considered foreign officials. Certain payments to hospitals in connection with clinical trials and other work have been deemed to be improper payments to government officials and have led to FCPA enforcement actions.. Various laws, regulations and executive orders also restrict the use and dissemination outside of the U.S., or the sharing with certain non-U.S. nationals, of information classified for national security purposes, as well as certain products and technical data relating to those products. Our presence outside of the U.S. will require us to dedicate additional resources to comply with these laws, and these laws may preclude us from developing, manufacturing, or selling DKN-01 or TRX518 outside of the U.S., which could increase our development costs and limit our growth potential.. The failure to comply with laws governing international business practices may result in substantial penalties, including suspension or debarment from government contracting. Violation of the FCPA can result in significant civil and criminal penalties. Indictment alone under the FCPA can lead to suspension of the right to do business with the U.S. government until the pending claims are resolved. Conviction of a violation of the FCPA can result in long-term disqualification as a government contractor. The termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of our failure to satisfy. 46. Table of Contents. any of our obligations under laws governing international business practices, which would have a negative impact on our business and harm our reputation and ability to procure government contracts. The Commission also may suspend or bar issuers from trading securities on U.S. exchanges for violations of the FCPA's accounting provisions.. Our relationships with customers and third-party payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings.. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors will play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with third-party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may affect the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we would market, sell and distribute our products. Federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients' rights are and will be applicable to our business. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations that may affect our operations (including our marketing, promotion, educational programs, pricing, and relationships with healthcare providers or other entities, among other things) and expose us to areas of risk include the following: (i) the federal healthcare Anti-Kickback Statute; (ii) federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws; (iii) the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA; (iv) HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH; (v) the federal physician sunshine requirements under the Affordable Care Act; and (vi) analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in specified circumstances.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties are compliant with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve the expenditure of appropriate, and possibly significant, resources. Nonetheless, it is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any physicians or other healthcare providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to not be in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs.. We will need to grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth.. As of February 21, 2018, we had 20 full-time employees and two part-time employees, of whom five hold Ph.D. degrees and one holds an M.D. degree. We will need additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial and other resources. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including:. <U+0095> identifying, recruiting, maintaining, motivating and integrating additional employees;    <U+0095> improving our managerial, development, operational and finance systems; and    <U+0095> expanding our facilities.. Because of the specialized scientific and managerial nature of our business, we rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. The competition for. 47. Table of Contents. qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field is intense and as a result, we may be unable to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. As our operations expand, we will also need to manage additional relationships with various strategic partners, suppliers and other third parties. Our future financial performance and our ability to develop and commercialize DKN-01 or TRX518, if approved, and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage future growth effectively. Our failure to accomplish any of these tasks could prevent us from successfully growing our company.. We may acquire other assets, form collaborations or make investments in other companies or technologies, that could harm our operating results, dilute our stockholders' ownership, increase our debt or cause us to incur significant expense.. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of assets, including pre-clinical or clinical stage product candidates, or enter into strategic alliances and collaborations to expand our existing programs and operations. We may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction, any of which could have a detrimental effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and if we make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing business and we may incur additional debt or assume unknown or contingent liabilities in connection therewith. Integration of an acquired company or assets may also disrupt ongoing operations, require the hiring of additional personnel and the implementation of additional internal systems and infrastructure, and require management resources that would otherwise focus on developing our existing business. We may not be able to find suitable strategic alliance or collaboration partners or identify other investment opportunities, and we may experience losses related to any such investments.. To finance any acquisitions or collaborations, we may choose to issue debt or shares of our common stock as consideration. Any such issuance of shares would dilute the ownership of our stockholders. If the price of our common stock is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other assets or companies or fund a transaction using our stock as consideration. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds for acquisitions through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all.. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties to conduct, supervise, and monitor our preclinical studies and clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet deadlines for the completion of such trials or failing to comply with regulatory requirements.. We rely on third-party contract research organizations, or CROs, to conduct, supervise, and monitor our preclinical and clinical trials for our product candidates. We expect to continue to rely on third parties, such as CROs, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions, and clinical investigators, to conduct our preclinical studies and clinical trials. While we have agreements governing their activities, we have limited influence over their actual performance and control only certain aspects of their activities. The failure of these third parties to successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines could substantially harm our business, because we may be delayed in completing or unable to complete the clinical trials required to support future approval of our product candidates, or we may not obtain marketing approval for or commercialize our product candidates in timely manner or at all. Moreover, these agreements might terminate for a variety of reasons, including a failure to perform by the third parties. If we need to enter into alternative arrangements, then that could delay our product development activities and adversely affect our business.. 48. Table of Contents. Our reliance on these third parties for development activities reduces our control over these activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal, regulatory, and scientific standards, and our reliance on the CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. For example, we will remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial and for ensuring that our preclinical trials are conducted in accordance with GLPs, as appropriate. Moreover, the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities require us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as GCPs, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity, and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Regulatory authorities enforce these requirements through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical investigators, and trial sites. If we or any of our CROs fail to comply with applicable GCPs or other regulatory requirements, we or our CROs may be subject to enforcement or other legal actions, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials.. In addition, we will be required to report certain financial interests of our third-party investigators if these relationships exceed certain financial thresholds or meet other criteria. The FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may question the integrity of the data from those clinical trials conducted by investigators who may have conflicts of interest.. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection by a given regulatory authority, such regulatory authority will determine that any of our clinical trials complies with GCP regulations. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product candidates that were produced under cGMP regulations. Our failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. We also are required to register certain clinical trials and post the results of certain completed clinical trials on a government-sponsored database, ClinicalTrials.gov, within specified timeframes. Failure to do so can result in enforcement actions and adverse publicity.. Our CROs may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors, for whom they may also be conducting clinical trials or other therapeutic development activities that could harm our competitive position. In addition, our CROs are not our employees, and except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such CROs, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing clinical, non-clinical, and pre-clinical programs. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected deadlines or conduct our pre-clinical studies or clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our trials may be repeated, extended, delayed, or terminated and we may not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, marketing approvals for our product candidates and will not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize our product candidates, or we or they may be subject to regulatory enforcement actions. As a result, our results of operations and the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase, and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed. To the extent we are unable to successfully identify and manage the performance of third-party service providers in the future, our business may be materially and adversely affected.. If any of our relationships with these third-party CROs terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs or to do so on commercially reasonable terms. Switching or adding additional CROs involves additional cost and requires management time and focus. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work. As a result, delays could occur, which could compromise our ability to meet our desired development timelines. Though we carefully manage our relationships with our CROs, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter similar. 49. Table of Contents. challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and prospects, and results of operations.. If the contract manufacturers upon whom we rely fail to produce our product candidates or components in the volumes that we require on a timely basis, or to comply with stringent regulations applicable to biopharmaceutical manufacturers, we may face delays in the development and commercialization of, or be unable to meet demand for, our product candidates and may lose potential revenues.. We do not manufacture any of our product candidates, and we do not currently plan to develop any capacity to do so. We utilize third-party contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, to manufacture the clinical trial material of DKN-01 and TRX518 and expect to do so for commercial products, if approved. We do not have any long-term commitments from our CMOs for clinical trial material or guaranteed prices for our product candidates. Any delays in obtaining adequate supplies with respect to our product candidates will delay the development or commercialization of our product candidates.. Our product candidates compete with other products and product candidates for access to contract manufacturing facilities. There are a limited number of CMOs that operate under cGMP regulations and that are both capable of manufacturing for us and willing to do so. If our existing CMOs, or any new third party CMOs that we engage in the future to manufacture our product candidates for our clinical trials, should cease to continue to do so for any reason, we likely would experience delays in obtaining sufficient quantities of our product candidates for us to advance our clinical trials while we identify and qualify replacement suppliers. Further, even if we do establish such collaborations or arrangements, our CMOs may breach, terminate, or not renew these agreements. We may not succeed in our efforts to establish sufficient manufacturing relationships or other alternative arrangements to meet our needs for any of our existing or future product candidates. If for any reason we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of our product candidates, it will be more difficult for us to conduct clinical trials, develop our product candidates and operate our business.. Any problems or delays we experience in preparing for commercial-scale manufacturing of a product candidate or component may result in a delay in FDA approval of the product candidate or may impair our ability to manufacture commercial quantities or such quantities at an acceptable cost, which could result in the delay, prevention, or impairment of clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates and could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, if our commercial CMOs fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of our product candidates on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we would likely be unable to meet demand for our products and we would lose potential revenues.. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of therapeutics often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, and compliance with strictly enforced federal, state, and foreign regulations. Our CMOs may not perform as agreed or may have a failure of a manufacturing campaign. Any changes or deviations in a manufacturing process may result in the failure of the product to meet the specifications. If our CMOs were to encounter any of these difficulties, our ability to provide product candidates to patients in our clinical trials and for commercial use, if approved, would be jeopardized. Reliance on third-party CMOs entails exposure to risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured the product candidate ourselves, including:. <U+0095> inability to negotiate manufacturing agreements with CMOs under commercially reasonable terms;. 50. Table of Contents. <U+0095> reduced day-to-day control over the manufacturing process for our product candidates as a result of using third-party CMOs for all aspects of manufacturing activities;    <U+0095> reduced control over the protection of our trade secrets and know-how from misappropriation or inadvertent disclosure;     <U+0095> termination or nonrenewal of manufacturing agreements with third parties in a manner or at a time that may be costly or damaging to us or result in delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates; and    <U+0095> disruptions to the operations of our third-party CMOs caused by conditions unrelated to our business or operations, including the bankruptcy of the CMO.. In addition, all CMOs of our product candidates and therapeutic substances must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA that are applicable to both finished product and their active components used both for clinical and commercial supply, through its facilities inspection program. Our CMOs must be approved by the FDA pursuant to inspections that will be conducted after we submit our marketing applications to the agency. Our CMOs will also be subject to continuing FDA and other regulatory authority inspections should we receive marketing approval. Further, we, in cooperation with our CMOs, must supply all necessary chemistry, manufacturing, and control documentation in support of a BLA on a timely basis. The cGMP requirements include quality control, quality assurance, and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our product candidates and therapeutic substances may be unable to comply with our specifications, these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state, and foreign regulatory requirements. Poor control of production processes can lead to the introduction of adventitious agents or other contaminants, or to inadvertent changes in the properties or stability of product candidates that may not be detectable in final product testing. If our CMOs cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the strict regulatory requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities, they will not be able to secure or maintain regulatory approval for their manufacturing facilities. Any such deviations may also require remedial measures that may be costly and/or time-consuming for us or a third party to implement and that may include the temporary or permanent suspension of a clinical trial or commercial sales or the temporary or permanent closure of a facility. Any such remedial measures imposed upon us or third parties with whom we contract could materially harm our business.. While we are ultimately responsible for the manufacture of our product candidates and therapeutic substances, other than through our contractual arrangements, we have little control over our CMOs' compliance with these regulations and standards. If the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority does not approve these facilities for the manufacture of our product candidates or if it withdraws any such approval in the future, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our product candidates, if approved. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in regulatory enforcement actions against our CMOs or us, including fines and civil and criminal penalties, including imprisonment, suspension or restrictions of production, suspension, injunctions, delay or denial of product approval or supplements to approved products, clinical holds or termination of clinical studies, warning or untitled letters, regulatory authority communications warning the public about safety issues with the biologic, refusal to permit the import or export of the products, product seizure, detention, or recall, operating restrictions, suits under the civil False Claims Act, corporate integrity agreements, consent decrees, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied is compromised due to our CMOs' failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates.. Any failure or refusal to supply sufficient quantities of our product candidates would delay, prevent or impair our clinical development or commercialization efforts. Any change in our CMO could be costly because the commercial terms of any new arrangement could be less favorable and. 51. Table of Contents. because the expenses relating to the transfer of necessary technology and processes could be significant. There are significant requirements prior to receiving FDA approval for the transfer of manufacturing process for a therapeutic antibody product to a new manufacturing facility.. We also rely on third parties to store and distribute our product candidates for the clinical trials that we conduct. Any performance failure on the part of our distributors could delay clinical development of our product candidates, producing additional losses.. Any collaboration arrangements that we may enter into in the future may not be successful, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates.. For our current or future product candidates, we may in the future determine to collaborate with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for their development and potential commercialization. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Our ability to reach a definitive agreement for collaboration will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors. Our future collaboration arrangements, if any, may not be successful, and the success of them will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. Collaborators generally have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaboration arrangements. Disagreements between parties to a collaboration arrangement regarding clinical development and commercialization matters can lead to delays in the development process or commercializing the applicable product candidate and, in some cases, termination of the collaboration arrangement. We may not identify or complete any collaboration in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction, any of which could have a detrimental effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to Legal and Compliance Matters. If we fail to comply with federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse and health and other information privacy and security laws, we could face substantial penalties and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be adversely affected.. As a biopharmaceutical company, we are subject to many federal and state healthcare laws, including those described in the Government Regulation and Product Approval section. If we or our operations are found to be in violation of any federal or state healthcare law, or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil, criminal, and administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, debarment from government contracts, and refusal of orders under existing contracts, exclusion from participation in U.S. federal or state health care programs, corporate integrity agreements, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. If any of the physicians or other healthcare providers or entities with whom we expect to do business, including our collaborators, is found not to be in compliance with applicable laws, it may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including but not limited to, exclusions from participation in government healthcare programs, which could also materially affect our business.. Although an effective compliance program can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security, and fraud laws may prove costly. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. 52. Table of Contents. Our employees, independent contractors, consultants, commercial partners, principal investigators, CMOs or CROs may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are exposed to the risk of fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees, independent contractors, consultants, commercial partners, principal investigators, or CROs could include intentional, reckless, negligent, or unintentional failures to comply with FDA regulations, comply with applicable fraud and abuse laws, provide accurate information to the FDA, report financial information or data accurately or disclose unauthorized activities to us. This misconduct could also involve the improper use or misrepresentation of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to identify and deter this type of misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights are inadequate to protect our technology and product candidates, our competitive position could be harmed.. Our commercial success will depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other intellectual property protection in the U.S. and other countries with respect to our proprietary technology and products. We rely on patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, and confidentiality, licensing and other agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. We seek to protect our proprietary position by filing and prosecuting patent applications in the U.S. and abroad related to our novel technologies and products that are important to our business.. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally are highly uncertain, involve complex legal and factual questions and have in recent years been the subject of much litigation. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patents, including those patent rights licensed to us by third parties, are highly uncertain. The steps we or our licensors have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, both inside and outside the U.S. Further, the examination process may require us or our licensors to narrow the claims for our pending patent applications and those of our licensors, which may limit the scope of patent protection that may be obtained if these applications issue. The rights already granted under any of our currently issued patents or those licensed to us and those that may be granted under future issued patents may not provide us with the proprietary protection or competitive advantages we are seeking. If we or our licensors are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, or if the scope of the patent protection obtained is not sufficient, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology and products similar or superior to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be adversely affected. It is also possible that we or our licensors will fail to identify patentable aspects of inventions made in the course of our development and commercialization activities before it is too late to obtain patent protection for them.. With respect to patent rights, we do not know whether any of the pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents that protect our technology or products, or if any of our or our. 53. Table of Contents. licensors' issued patents will effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. Patents in the field of therapeutic monoclonal antibodies are frequently limited in scope based on the sequence of amino acids that form the antibody. A portion of our intellectual property portfolio is limited by the amino acid sequence of our product candidates. Other competing companies may have therapeutic antibodies to the same target as our product candidates that have a different amino acid sequence and as a result may not be determined to infringe on patents which are limited by amino acid sequence. Even for those patent applications which are defined by the target of a therapeutic antibody and not limited by an amino acid sequence, we cannot be certain that other companies with antibodies to these targets can otherwise avoid or overcome the claims in our intellectual property.. Our pending applications cannot be enforced against third parties practicing the technology claimed in such applications unless and until a patent issues from such applications. Because the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, issued patents that we own or have licensed from third parties may be challenged in the courts, administrative agencies or patent offices in the U.S. and abroad. Such challenges may result in the loss of patent protection, the narrowing of claims in such patents or the invalidity or unenforceability of such patents, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection for our technology and products. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our or our licensors' patented technology, trademarks and other intellectual property rights is expensive, difficult and may in some cases not be possible. In some cases, it may be difficult or impossible to detect third-party infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, even in relation to issued patent claims, and proving any such infringement may be even more difficult.. Our granted European patents for (i) TRX518 and its uses and (ii) anti-GITR agonist antibodies, including TRX518, in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent for treating cancer, each of which is of significant value to us, have been challenged in European Patent Office Opposition proceedings, and successful challenges could limit our future revenues.. A patent covering TRX518 and its uses was granted to us by the European Patent Office. Three oppositions to this patent were filed by two major pharmaceutical companies and an individual, possibly on behalf of a major pharmaceutical company. Opposition proceedings took place in 2016, and the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office that decided the case issued an interlocutory decision indicating that our patent should be maintained with modified claims that are narrower than the claims as originally granted. Nonetheless, we believe that the claims deemed allowable by the Opposition Division still sufficiently cover TRX518 and its uses. Nonetheless, we have filed an appeal of the decision of the Opposition Division seeking to obtain broader claims that more closely reflect the claims as granted in the patent. We cannot assure you that our appeal will have any success. Should the decision of the Opposition Division stand in whole or in part, our ability to prevent competition in Europe or to license our intellectual property may be more limited or of lower value than under the broader claims we were originally granted, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of the opposition appeal and any further proceedings could be material.. In 2016, a patent covering the use of anti-GITR agonist antibodies, including TRX518, in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent for treating cancer was granted to us by the European Patent Office. In March 2017, notices of opposition to this patent were filed by ten different entities, including several major pharmaceutical companies. We cannot assure you that the Opposition Division will uphold the claims as granted and, if not, our ability to prevent competition in Europe or to license our intellectual property may be more limited, which could have an adverse effect on our business,. 54. Table of Contents. financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of the opposition and any further proceedings could be material.. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could harm our business.. Our commercial success depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell DKN-01 or TRX518. We may become party to, or threatened with, future adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to DKN-01 and/or TRX518, including interference, derivation, inter partes review or post-grant review proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us based on existing patents or patents that may be granted in the future. If we are found to infringe a third party's intellectual property rights, we could be required to obtain a license from such third party to continue commercializing DKN-01 and/or TRX518. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Under certain circumstances, we could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing DKN-01 or TRX518. In addition, in any such proceeding or litigation, we could be found liable for monetary damages. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing DKN-01 or TRX518 or force us to cease some of our business operations, which could materially harm our business. Any claims by third parties that we have misappropriated their confidential information or trade secrets could also have a negative impact on our business.. While DKN-01 and TRX518 are in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials in the United States, we believe that the use of DKN-01 and TRX518 in these preclinical studies and clinical trials falls within the scope of the exemptions provided by 35 U.S.C. Section 271(e) in the U.S., which exempts from patent infringement liability activities reasonably related to the development and submission of information to the FDA. As DKN-01 or TRX518 progresses toward commercialization, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us may increase. We attempt to ensure that DKN-01 and TRX518, the methods we employ to manufacture them, as well as the methods for their use we intend to promote, do not infringe other parties' patents and other proprietary rights. There can be no assurance they do not, however, and competitors or other parties may assert that we infringe their proprietary rights in any event.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on DKN-01 or TRX518 and any future product candidates throughout the world could be prohibitively expensive, and our or our licensors' intellectual property rights in some countries outside the U.S. can be less extensive than those in the U.S. In addition, the laws and practices of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the U.S. Consequently, we and our licensors may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our and/or our licensors' inventions in all countries outside the U.S., or from selling or importing products made using our and/or our licensors' inventions in and into the U.S. or other jurisdictions. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products, and may export otherwise allegedly infringing products to territories where we or our licensors have patent protection, but where enforcement is not as strong as that in the U.S. These products may compete with our products in jurisdictions where we do not have any issued patents and our patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from so competing.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biopharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our or our licensors' patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our. 55. Table of Contents. proprietary rights generally in those countries. Proceedings to enforce our and/or our licensors' patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our and our licensors' patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable or interpreted narrowly and our and our licensors' patent applications at risk of not issuing and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us or our licensors. We or our licensors may not prevail in any lawsuits that we or our licensors initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful.. The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and these foreign laws may also be subject to change. For example, methods of treatment and manufacturing processes may not be patentable in certain jurisdictions, and the requirements for patentability may differ in certain countries, particularly developing countries. Furthermore, generic drug manufacturers or other competitors may challenge the scope, validity and/or enforceability of our or our licensors' patents, requiring us or our licensors to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation or other proceedings. Generic drug or biosimilar manufacturers may develop, seek approval for, and launch generic or biosimilar versions of our products. Many countries, including some European Union countries, India, Japan and China, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled under certain circumstances to grant licenses to third parties. In those countries, we and our licensors may have limited remedies if patents are infringed or if we or our licensors are compelled to grant a license to a third party, which could materially diminish the value of those patents. This could limit our potential revenue opportunities in those countries. Accordingly, our and our licensors' efforts to enforce intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we own or license.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural requirements, document submissions, fee payments and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. Periodic maintenance fees on any issued U.S. utility or foreign patent are due to be paid to the USPTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of the patent right in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. If we or our licensors fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our product candidates, our competitive position could be adversely affected.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful and have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. Competitors may infringe our and/or our licensors' patents or misappropriate or otherwise violate our and/or our licensors' intellectual property rights. To prevent or stop infringement or unauthorized use, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce and/or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of our own intellectual property rights or the proprietary rights of others. Also, third parties may initiate legal proceedings against us or our licensors to challenge the validity, enforceability and/or scope of intellectual property rights we own or control. These proceedings can be expensive and time consuming. Many of our current and potential. 56. Table of Contents. competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to defend their intellectual property rights than we can. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, which could harm our business and financial results. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent owned by or licensed to us is invalid or unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question, or other grounds. An adverse result in any litigation proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable or interpreted narrowly. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. There could also be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of shares of our common stock.. Risks Related to Our Being a Public Company. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we intend to take advantage of reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, which could result in our common stock being less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, our stock price may be more volatile and it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital as and when we need it. If we are unable to raise additional capital as and when we need it, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company, which in certain circumstances could be for up to five years. We will remain an \"emerging growth company\" until the earliest of (a) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed $1.07 billion, (b) the date that we become a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of our shares that are held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, (c) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in nonconvertible debt during the preceding three-year period and (d) the last day of our 2022 fiscal year containing the fifth anniversary of the date on which shares of our common stock became publicly traded in the U.S.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Beginning with this annual report, we are required, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on,. 57. Table of Contents. among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that results in more than a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also generally requires an attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, for as long as we remain an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act, we intend to take advantage of the exemption permitting us not to comply with the independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirement.. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources.. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with Section 404 requires us to be able to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may cause our operations to suffer and we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our auditors as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This, in turn, could have an adverse impact on trading prices for our Common Stock, and could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets.. We cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines we have a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting once that firm begins its Section 404 reviews, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ stock market, the Commission or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets.. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. We are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Commission. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.. 58. Table of Contents. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements or insufficient disclosures due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, and these expenses may increase even more after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, we expect these rules and regulations to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We estimate that we will incur approximately $1.0 to $1.5 million in incremental costs per year associated with being a publicly traded company, although it is possible that our actual incremental costs will be higher than we currently estimate. The increased costs increase our net loss.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be your sole source of gain.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, including the resale of the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants that were issued in the private placement which we closed on November 14, 2017, could cause our stock price to fall.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Prior to the private placement financing, holders of an aggregate of 6,007,947 shares of our common stock had rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. On November 14, 2017 in a private placement financing, we issued 2,958,094 shares of common stock and Warrants that are exercisable for an aggregate of 2,958,094 shares of common stock, subject to adjustment as provided in such Warrants. In connection with the closing of the private placement financing, we granted to all Purchasers the right, subject to certain conditions, to require us a file a resale registration statement covering the shares of common stock issued in the financing and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants issued in the financing. We have registered 3,734,914 shares of these shares of common stock on a registration statement on Form S-3, which was declared effective by the SEC on December 15, 2017, and as a result these registered shares became generally available for immediate resale. Sales of such shares of common stock in the public market, including shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock, and the market value of our other securities, and could result in dilution to shareholders who hold our common stock.. 59. Table of Contents. We also have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans on Form S-8. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to volume limitations applicable to affiliates under Rule 144 under the Securities Act.. Further, the stockholders have approved the inclusion of a full ratchet anti-dilution feature as a term of the warrants. As a result, if we issue Common Stock, options or Common Stock equivalents at a price less than the exercise price of the warrants, subject to certain customary exceptions, the exercise price of the warrants will be reduced to that lower price. Such a decrease in exercise price may cause holders to exercise the warrants which could result in dilution to our existing stockholders at an accelerated rate.. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plan, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall.. We expect that significant additional capital will be needed in the future to continue our planned operations. To raise capital, we may sell substantial amounts of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock. These future issuances of common stock or common stock-related securities, together with the exercise of stock options, warrants outstanding or granted in the future and any additional shares issued in connection with acquisitions, if any, may result in material dilution to our investors. Such sales may also result in material dilution to our existing stockholders, and new investors could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock.. Pursuant to our equity incentive plans, our compensation committee is authorized to grant equity-based incentive awards to our directors, executive officers and other employees and service providers. Shares currently available for future grant under our Amended and Restated 2012 Equity Incentive Plan and our 2016 Equity Incentive Plan represent a significant number of shares of Leap common stock and could represent significant dilution to our existing stockholders. Future equity incentive grants and issuances of common stock under our 2016 Equity Incentive Plan may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. In addition, we may issue additional shares of Common Stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into Common Stock in connection with a future financing, acquisition, employee arrangements or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders and could cause our stock price to decline.. We may become obligated to pay liquidated damages if we fail to maintain effectiveness of the registration statement on Form S-3 for 3,734,914 shares of common stock that we filed in connection with the private placement.. In accordance with the terms of the purchase agreements executed in connection with the private placement, the selling stockholders are entitled to receive liquidated damages upon the occurrence of a number of events relating to filing the Registration Statement, including maintaining an effective registration statement covering the securities being registered. The liquidated damages will be payable upon the occurrence of the event and each monthly anniversary thereof until cured. The amount of liquidated damages payable per 30-day period is equal to 1.0% of the purchase price paid by such Purchaser and may increase to 2.0% under certain circumstances, provided, however, the maximum aggregate liquidated damages payable to a Selling Stockholder is 10% of the aggregate purchase price paid by a Purchaser for the Shares and Warrants pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. We may also be responsible for the actual damages suffered by a Selling Stockholder in certain circumstances.. 60. Table of Contents. Our share price may be volatile, which could subject us to securities class action litigation and our stockholders could incur substantial losses.. The market price of shares of our Common Stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including:. <U+0095> the results of clinical trials or development activities of our programs, or any future programs we may acquire;     <U+0095> actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results;    <U+0095> failure to meet or exceed financial estimates and projections of the investment community or that we provide to the public;     <U+0095> issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts;    <U+0095> fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;    <U+0095> additions or departures of key management or other personnel;    <U+0095> disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters, and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;    <U+0095> announcement or expectation of additional debt or equity financing efforts;    <U+0095> sales of our Common Stock by us, our insiders or our other stockholders; and    <U+0095> general economic and market conditions.. These and other market and industry factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, regardless of our actual operating performance, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of Common Stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and NASDAQ and emerging growth companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If in the future any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur significant legal expenses, settlement costs or damage awards that are not covered by, or exceed the limits of, our available directors' and officers' liability insurance, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management.. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, or remove our current management. These include provisions that:. <U+0095> permit our board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, with any rights, preferences and privileges as it may designate;    <U+0095> provide that all vacancies on our board of directors, including as a result of newly created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum;. 61. Table of Contents. <U+0095> establish a classified board of directors such that only one of three classes of directors is elected each year;     <U+0095> provide that directors can only be removed for cause;    <U+0095> require that any action to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and not be taken by written consent;    <U+0095> provide that stockholders seeking to present proposals before a meeting of stockholders or to nominate candidates for election as directors at a meeting of stockholders must provide advance notice in writing, and also specify requirements as to the form and content of a stockholder's notice;    <U+0095> require that the amendment of certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to anti-takeover measures may only be approved by a vote of 66.67% (or, in certain limited circumstances, 75%) of our outstanding capital stock;    <U+0095> not provide for cumulative voting rights, thereby allowing the holders of a majority of the shares of common stock entitled to vote in any election of directors to elect all of the directors standing for election; and    <U+0095> provide that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the board of directors or by such person or persons designated by a majority of the board of directors to call such meetings.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management. Because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock."
