[1] "ITEM 1A  -  RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors. In addition to the factors affecting our business identified elsewhere in this Report, the most significant factors affecting our operations include the following:. • Our industry is cyclical and a decline in the production levels of our major customers, particularly with respect to models for which we are a significant supplier, could adversely affect our financial performance.. Our sales are driven by the number of vehicles produced by the automotive manufacturers, which is ultimately dependent on consumer demand for automotive vehicles, and our content per vehicle. The automotive industry is cyclical and sensitive to general economic conditions, including the global credit markets, interest rates, consumer credit and consumer spending and preferences. Automotive sales and production can also be affected by the age of the vehicle fleet and related scrappage rates, labor relations issues, fuel prices, regulatory requirements, government initiatives, trade agreements, the availability and cost of credit, the availability of critical components needed to complete the production of vehicles, restructuring actions of our customers and suppliers, facility closures and increased competition, as well as consumer preferences regarding vehicle size, configuration and features, changing consumer attitudes toward vehicle ownership and usage, such as ride sharing and on-demand transportation, and other factors.. Our ability to reduce the risks inherent in certain concentrations of business, and thereby maintain our financial performance in the future, will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to diversify our sales on a customer, product, platform and geographic basis to reflect the market overall. While we are pursuing a strategy of aggressively expanding our sales and operations in Asia, no assurances can be given as to how successful we will be in doing so. As a result, an economic downturn or other adverse industry conditions that result in a decline in the production levels of our major customers, particularly with respect to models for which we are a significant supplier, could reduce our sales and thereby adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • The loss of business with respect to, or the lack of commercial success of, a vehicle model for which we are a significant supplier could adversely affect our financial performance.. Although we receive purchase orders from our customers, these purchase orders generally provide for the supply of a customer's annual requirements for a particular vehicle model and assembly plant, or in some cases, for the supply of a customer's requirements for the life of a particular vehicle model, rather than for the purchase of a specific quantity of products. In addition, it is possible that our customers could elect to manufacture our products internally or increase the extent to which they require us to utilize specific suppliers or materials in the manufacture of our products. The loss of business with respect to, the lack of commercial success of or an increase in directed component sourcing for a vehicle model for which we are a significant supplier could reduce our sales or margins and thereby adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • Our inability to achieve product cost reductions which offset customer-imposed price reductions could adversely affect our financial performance.. Downward pricing pressure by automotive manufacturers is a characteristic of the automotive industry. We regularly negotiate contracts and sales prices with our customers. These contracts require us to reduce our prices over the life of a vehicle model and, at the same time, assume significant responsibility for the design, development and engineering of our products. Our financial performance is largely dependent on our ability to achieve product cost reductions through. 16. Table of Contents. product design enhancement and supply chain management, as well as manufacturing efficiencies and restructuring actions. We also seek to enhance our financial performance by investing in product development, design capabilities and new product initiatives that respond to the needs of our customers and consumers. We continually evaluate operational and strategic alternatives to align our business with the changing needs of our customers and improve our business structure by investing in vertical integration opportunities. Our inability to achieve product cost reductions which offset customer-imposed price reductions could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • Increases in the costs and restrictions on the availability of raw materials, energy, commodities and product components could adversely affect our financial performance.. Raw material, energy and commodity costs can be volatile. Although we have developed and implemented strategies to mitigate the impact of higher raw material, energy and commodity costs, these strategies, together with commercial negotiations with our customers and suppliers, typically offset only a portion of the adverse impact. Certain of these strategies also may limit our opportunities in a declining commodity environment. In addition, the availability of raw materials, commodities and product components fluctuates from time to time due to factors outside of our control. If the costs of raw materials, energy, commodities and product components increase or the availability thereof is restricted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • Adverse developments affecting or the financial distress of one or more of our suppliers could adversely affect our financial performance.. We obtain components and other products and services from numerous Tier 2 automotive suppliers and other vendors throughout the world. We are responsible for managing our supply chain, including suppliers that may be the sole sources of products that we require, that our customers direct us to use or that have unique capabilities that would make it difficult and/or expensive to re-source. In certain instances, entire industries may experience short-term capacity constraints. Additionally, our production capacity, and that of our customers and suppliers, may be adversely affected by natural disasters. Any such significant disruption could adversely affect our financial performance. Furthermore, unfavorable economic or industry conditions could result in financial distress within our supply base, thereby increasing the risk of supply disruption. Although market conditions generally have improved in recent years, uncertainty remains and another economic downturn or other unfavorable industry conditions in one or more of the regions in which we operate could cause a supply disruption and thereby adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • Our substantial international operations make us vulnerable to risks associated with doing business in foreign countries.. As a result of our global presence, a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We have substantial manufacturing and distribution facilities in many foreign countries, including Mexico and countries in Africa, Asia, Central and South America and Europe. International operations are subject to certain risks inherent in doing business abroad, including:. • exposure to local economic conditions;. • political, economic and civil instability and uncertainty (including acts of terrorism, civil unrest, drug-cartel related and other forms of violence and outbreaks of war);. • labor unrest;. • expropriation and nationalization;. • currency exchange rate fluctuations, currency controls and the ability to economically hedge currencies;. • withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;. • investment restrictions or requirements;. • repatriation restrictions or requirements;. • export and import restrictions and increases in duties and tariffs;. • increases in working capital requirements related to long supply chains; and. • global sovereign fiscal matters and creditworthiness, including potential defaults and the related impacts on economic activity, including the possible effects on credit markets, currency values, monetary unions, international treaties and fiscal policies.. 17. Table of Contents. Expanding our sales and operations in Asia and our manufacturing operations in lower-cost regions are important elements of our strategy. As a result, our exposure to the risks described above is substantial. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on us vary from country to country and are unpredictable. However, any such occurrences could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • Certain of our operations are conducted through joint ventures which have unique risks.. Certain of our operations, particularly in emerging markets, are conducted through joint ventures. With respect to our joint ventures, we may share ownership and management responsibilities with one or more partners that may not share our goals and objectives. Operating a joint venture requires us to operate the business pursuant to the terms of the agreement that we entered into with our partners, including additional organizational formalities, as well as to share information and decision making. Additional risks associated with joint ventures include one or more partners failing to satisfy contractual obligations, conflicts arising between us and any of our partners, a change in the ownership of any of our partners and less of an ability to control compliance with applicable rules and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and related rules and regulations. Additionally, our ability to sell our interest in a joint venture may be subject to contractual and other limitations. Accordingly, any such occurrences could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • We operate in a highly competitive industry and efforts by our competitors, as well as new non-traditional entrants to the industry, to gain market share could adversely affect our financial performance.. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We and most of our competitors are seeking to expand market share with new and existing customers, including in Asia and other potential high growth regions. Our customers award business based on, among other things, price, quality, service and technology. Our competitors' efforts, as well as the efforts of new non-traditional entrants to the industry, to grow market share could exert downward pressure on our product pricing and margins. In addition, the success of portions of our business requires us to develop and/or incorporate leading technologies. Such technologies are subject to rapid obsolescence. Our inability to maintain access to these technologies (either through development or licensing) may adversely affect our ability to compete. If we are unable to differentiate our products or maintain a low-cost footprint, we may lose market share or be forced to reduce prices, thereby lowering our margins. Any such occurrences could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • Our inability to effectively manage the timing, quality and costs of new program launches could adversely affect our financial performance.. In connection with the award of new business, we obligate ourselves to deliver new products and services that are subject to our customers' timing, performance and quality standards. Additionally, as a Tier 1 supplier, we must effectively coordinate the activities of numerous suppliers in order for the program launches of our products to be successful. Given the complexity of new program launches, we may experience difficulties managing product quality, timeliness and associated costs. In addition, new program launches require a significant ramp up of costs; however, our sales related to these new programs generally are dependent upon the timing and success of our customers' introduction of new vehicles. Our inability to effectively manage the timing, quality and costs of these new program launches could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • A significant labor dispute involving us or one or more of our customers or suppliers or that could otherwise affect our operations could adversely affect our financial performance.. A substantial number of our employees and the employees of our largest customers and suppliers are members of industrial trade unions and are employed under the terms of various labor agreements. We have labor agreements covering approximately 76,400 employees globally. In the United States and Canada, each of our unionized facilities has a separate collective bargaining agreement with the union that represents the workers at such facility, with each such agreement having an expiration date that is independent of the other agreements. Labor agreements covering approximately 77% of our global unionized work force, including approximately 2% of our unionized workforce in the United States and Canada, are scheduled to expire during 2018. There can be no assurances that future negotiations with the unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not experience a work stoppage or disruption that could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. A labor dispute involving us, any of our customers or suppliers or any other suppliers to our customers or that otherwise affects our operations, or the inability by us, any of our customers or suppliers or any other suppliers to our customers to negotiate, upon the expiration of a labor agreement, an extension of such agreement or a new agreement on satisfactory terms could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, if any of our significant customers experience a material work stoppage, the customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. This could require us to shut down or significantly reduce production at facilities relating to such products, which could adversely affect our business and harm our profitability.. 18. Table of Contents. • Our existing indebtedness and the inability to access capital markets could restrict our business activities or our ability to execute our strategic objectives or adversely affect our financial performance.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $2.0 billion of outstanding indebtedness, as well as $1.75 billion available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility. The debt instruments governing our indebtedness contain covenants that may restrict our business activities or our ability to execute our strategic objectives, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness. We also lease certain buildings and equipment under non-cancelable lease agreements with terms exceeding one year, which are accounted for as operating leases. Additionally, any downgrade in the ratings that rating agencies assign to us and our debt may ultimately impact our access to capital markets. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt and lease obligations, to refinance our debt obligations or to access capital markets on commercially reasonable terms could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • Significant changes in discount rates, the actual return on pension assets and other factors could adversely affect our financial performance.. Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense recorded related to our global defined benefit plans. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States require that income or expense related to the defined benefit plans be calculated at the annual measurement date using actuarial calculations, which reflect certain assumptions. The most significant of these assumptions relate to interest rates, the capital markets and other economic conditions. These assumptions, as well as the actual value of pension assets at the measurement date, will impact the calculation of pension and other postretirement benefit expense for the year. Although pension expense and pension contributions are not directly related, the key economic indicators that affect pension expense also affect the amount of cash that we will contribute to our pension plans. Because interest rates and the values of these pension assets have fluctuated and will continue to fluctuate in response to changing market conditions, pension and other postretirement benefit expense in subsequent periods, the funded status of our pension plans and the future minimum required pension contributions, if any, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • Impairment charges relating to our goodwill and long-lived assets could adversely affect our financial performance.. We regularly monitor our goodwill and long-lived assets for impairment indicators. In conducting our goodwill impairment testing, we may first perform a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount. If not, no further goodwill impairment testing is required. If it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount, or if we elect not to perform a qualitative assessment of a reporting unit, we then compare the fair value of the reporting unit to the related net book value. If the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is measured and recognized. In conducting our impairment analysis of long-lived assets, we compare the undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the long-lived assets to the related net book values. Changes in economic or operating conditions impacting our estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our goodwill or long-lived assets. In the event that we determine that our goodwill or long-lived assets are impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. • Our failure to execute our strategic objectives could adversely affect our financial performance.. Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to successfully execute our strategic objectives. Our objectives are to deliver superior long-term stockholder value by investing in our business to grow and improve our competitive position, while maintaining a strong and flexible balance sheet and returning cash to our stockholders. Various factors, including the industry environment and the other matters described herein and in Part II  -  Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" including \" -  Forward-Looking Statements,\" could adversely affect our ability to execute our strategic objectives. These risk factors include our failure to identify suitable opportunities for organic investment and/or acquisitions, our inability to successfully develop such opportunities or complete such acquisitions or our inability to successfully utilize or integrate the investments in our operations. Our failure to execute our strategic objectives could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Moreover, there can be no assurances that, even if implemented, our strategic objectives will be successful.. 19. Table of Contents. • A disruption in our information technology systems, including a disruption related to cybersecurity, could adversely affect our financial performance.. We rely on the accuracy, capacity and security of our information technology systems. Despite the security measures that we have implemented, including those measures related to cybersecurity, our systems, as well as those of our customers, suppliers and other service providers, could be breached or damaged by computer viruses, malware, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks, natural or man-made incidents or disasters or unauthorized physical or electronic access. These types of incidents have become more prevalent and pervasive across industries, including our industry, and are expected to continue in the future. A breach could result in business disruption, including the vehicle systems and components that we supply to our customers or our plant operations, theft of our intellectual property, trade secrets or customer information or unauthorized access to personnel information. Although cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our information technology systems from attack, damage or unauthorized access are a high priority for us, our actions and investments may not be deployed quickly enough or successfully protect our systems against all vulnerabilities, including technologies developed to bypass our security measures.  In addition, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers to disclose access credentials or other sensitive information in order to gain access to our secure systems and networks. There are no assurances that our actions and investments to improve the maturity of our systems, processes and risk management framework or remediate vulnerabilities will be sufficient or deployed quickly enough to prevent or limit the impact of any cyber intrusion. Moreover, because the techniques used to gain access to or sabotage systems often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate the methods necessary to defend against these types of attacks, and we cannot predict the extent, frequency or impact these attacks may have on us. To the extent that our business is interrupted or data is lost, destroyed or inappropriately used or disclosed, such disruptions could adversely affect our competitive position, relationships with our customers, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against the damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. We are also dependent on security measures that some of our customers, suppliers and other third-party service providers take to protect their own systems and infrastructures. Any security breach of any of these third-parties' systems could result in unauthorized access to our information technology systems, cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws or regulations, subject us to legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation or cause a loss of confidence in our products or services, any of which could adversely affect our financial performance.. • A significant product liability lawsuit, warranty claim or product recall involving us or one of our major customers could adversely affect our financial performance.. In the event that our products fail to perform as expected, regardless of fault, and such failure results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or other losses, we may be subject to product liability lawsuits and other claims or we may be required or requested by our customers to participate in a recall or other corrective action involving such products. We also are a party to agreements with certain of our customers, whereby these customers may pursue claims against us for contribution of all or a portion of the amounts sought in connection with product liability and warranty claims. We carry insurance for certain product liability claims, but such coverage may be limited. We do not maintain insurance for product warranty or recall matters. In addition, we may not be successful in recovering amounts from third parties, including sub-suppliers, in connection with these claims. These types of claims could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • We are involved from time to time in various legal and regulatory proceedings and claims, which could adversely affect our financial performance.. We are involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings and claims that, from time to time, are significant. These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, including disputes with our customers, suppliers or competitors, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims, environmental matters, tax matters, employment matters and antitrust matters. No assurances can be given that such proceedings and claims will not adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • New laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could adversely affect our financial performance.. We and the automotive industry are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to health, safety and environmental matters. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, capital markets, healthcare costs, energy usage, international trade and immigration and other labor issues, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business and the businesses of our customers and suppliers. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulations, or the application thereof. The introduction of new. 20. Table of Contents. laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, or the interpretation thereof, could increase the costs of doing business for us or our customers or suppliers or restrict our actions and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • We are subject to regulation of our international operations that could adversely affect our financial performance.. We are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and restrict where we can do business and what information or products we can supply to certain countries, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws, which are complex and often difficult to interpret and apply, could result in significant criminal penalties or sanctions that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • We are required to comply with environmental laws and regulations that could cause us to incur significant costs.. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, and we expect that additional requirements with respect to environmental matters will be imposed on us in the future.. Material future expenditures may be necessary if compliance standards change or material unknown conditions that require remediation are discovered. Environmental laws could also restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with our business. If we fail to comply with present and future environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, which could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights could adversely affect our financial performance.. We own significant intellectual property, including a large number of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and we are involved in numerous licensing arrangements. Our intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve. Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. • The United States recently passed a comprehensive tax reform bill that could adversely affect our financial performance.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law new legislation that significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"IRC\"). The newly enacted federal income tax law, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including the reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time transition tax on offshore earnings at reduced tax rates regardless of whether the earnings are repatriated, the elimination of U.S. tax on foreign dividends (subject to certain important exceptions), new taxes on certain foreign earnings, a new minimum tax related to payments to foreign subsidiaries and affiliates, immediate deductions for certain new investments and the modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain, and our financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, it is uncertain if, and to what extent, various states will conform to the new tax law and foreign countries will react by adopting tax legislation or taking other actions that could adversely affect our business.. • Significant changes in the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\") could adversely affect our financial performance.. The United States, Mexico and Canada are currently re-negotiating NAFTA, from which the U.S. government has advised it will withdraw if an agreement on revised terms is not reached. The U.S. government proposed changes to NAFTA that would require automotive products to contain significantly higher North American content, as well as specific U.S. domestic content, in order to obtain duty-free treatment under NAFTA. Canada offered counter-proposals, and the three countries are continuing discussions to achieve revised rules for automotive products. Reflective of the automotive industry, our vehicle parts manufacturing facilities in the United States, Mexico and Canada are highly dependent on duty-free trade within the NAFTA region. A significant number of our facilities are in Mexico and represent a critical component of our supply chain and that of our customers. We have significant imports into the United States, and the imposition of customs duties on these imports could negatively impact our financial performance. If such customs duties are implemented, Mexico and Canada may take retaliatory actions with respect to U.S. imports or U.S. investments in their countries. Any such potential actions could adversely affect our financial performance.. 21. Table of Contents. • Changes in the United Kingdom's economic and other relationships with the European Union could adversely affect us.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union in a national referendum (\"Brexit\"). In March 2017, the United Kingdom formally notified the European Union of its intention to withdraw, and withdrawal negotiations began in June 2017. European Union rules provide for a two-year negotiation period, beginning on the withdrawal notification date, unless an extension is agreed to by the parties. The negotiations between the parties have yet to produce an overall structure for their ongoing relationship following Brexit. We have significant operations in both the United Kingdom and the European Union. Our supply chain and that of our customers are highly integrated across the United Kingdom and the European Union, and we are highly dependent on the free flow of goods in those regions. The ongoing uncertainty and potential re-imposition of border controls and customs duties on trade between the United Kingdom and European Union nations could negatively impact our competitive position, supplier and customer relationships and financial performance. The ultimate effects of Brexit on us will depend on the specific terms of any agreement the United Kingdom and the European Union reach to provide access to each other's respective markets."
