[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results.. Fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial results have resulted and will continue to result from numerous factors, including:. <U+0095>   changes in demand for the products and services we sell;. <U+0095>   increased product and price competition, due to market conditions, the regulatory landscape or other factors;. 18. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   changes in the mix of products and services we sell;. <U+0095>   our pricing strategy with respect to different product lines and services;. <U+0095>   strategic actions by us, such as acquisitions of businesses, products, or technologies;. <U+0095>   effects of domestic and foreign economic conditions and exchange rates on our industry and/or customers;. <U+0095>   the divestiture or discontinuation of a product line or other revenue generating activity;. <U+0095>   the relocation and integration of manufacturing or processing operations and other strategic restructuring;. <U+0095>   regulatory actions that may necessitate recalls of our products or warning letters that negatively affect the markets for our products;. <U+0095>   our determination whether or not to continue the payment of quarterly cash dividends;. <U+0095>   costs incurred by us in connection with the termination of contractual and other relationships, including those of distributors or agents. <U+0095>   our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable in selected countries outside of the United States;. <U+0095>   changes in tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we do business;. <U+0095>   the expiration, elimination or utilization of deferred tax assets such as net operating loss carry-forwards;. <U+0095>   market reception of our new or improved product and service offerings; and. <U+0095>   the loss of any significant customer, especially in regard to any product or service that has a limited customer base.. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. We believe the quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not always meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance.. We may not maintain our recent levels of profitability.. While we reported growth in operating and net income in each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, there can be no assurance we will continue to achieve significant net sales growth and/or profit growth in the future. If, for example, we are unable to effectively manage our operating expenses due to, for example, increased headcount, we may need to reduce our operating expenses in other areas in order to maintain or improve operating profitability. Decreased investment levels may inhibit future growth in net sales and earnings.. Additionally, our ability to maintain and increase profitability will be influenced by many factors, including:. <U+0095>   the level and timing of future sales, manufacturing costs and operating expenditures;. <U+0095>   market acceptance of our new products and services;. <U+0095>   the productivity of our direct sales force and distributors;. <U+0095>   fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. <U+0095>   our ability to successfully build direct sales organizations in new markets;. <U+0095>   our ability to successfully acquire and develop competitive products;. 19. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, products, services or technologies;. <U+0095>   the impact on our business of competing products, technologies, and procedures;. <U+0095>   our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products in new and existing markets;. <U+0095>   the cost of litigation, if any; and. <U+0095>   changes in tax laws.. If we are unable to expand our product and service offerings, we may not achieve our growth objectives and our results of operations could suffer.. The treatment of peripheral vascular disease is shifting from open vascular surgery to minimally invasive endovascular procedures, and many of our products are used primarily or exclusively in open vascular surgery procedures. We market and sell our products primarily to vascular surgeons, and the majority of our marketing efforts and sales relate to products used in open vascular surgery rather than in endovascular procedures. We estimate that in 2017, 89% of our net sales were from devices used in open vascular procedures.. We may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors unless we can keep pace with existing or new products, services and technologies in the vascular device market and the minimally invasive endovascular procedure segment, in particular. Our success in developing and commercializing new products and new versions of our existing products and services is affected by our ability to:. <U+0095>   recognize in a timely manner new market trends and customer needs;. <U+0095>   identify products or services that address those trends or needs;. <U+0095>   obtain regulatory clearance or approval of new products and technologies;. <U+0095>   successfully develop cost-effective manufacturing processes for such products;. <U+0095>   commercially introduce such products, services and technologies; and. <U+0095>   achieve market acceptance.. If we are unable to expand our product or service offerings, we may not achieve our growth objectives and our results of operations as well as our stock price could suffer.. Our call point focus on the vascular surgeon with a product portfolio largely used in open surgical procedures may be too narrow, which may adversely affect our future sales.. The treatment of peripheral vascular disease continues to shift from open vascular surgery to minimally invasive endovascular procedures. We market and sell our products primarily to vascular surgeons, and the majority of our marketing efforts and sales relate to products used in open vascular surgery rather than in endovascular procedures. We estimate that in 2017, 89% of our net sales were from devices used in open vascular procedures.. In addition to performing traditional open surgical procedures, vascular surgeons in growing numbers also perform minimally invasive, image-guided interventional procedures for peripheral vascular disease. However, vascular surgeons may not adopt these procedures in the numbers we expect and instead these procedures may be largely performed by interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists. Many of our competitors have focused their sales efforts on these interventionalists. If interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists perform a greater percentage of these new procedures than we expect, our net sales may decline.. Moreover, demographic trends and other factors, such as reimbursement rates, are also driving vascular surgeons in the United States and potentially in other markets to increasingly specialize in certain kinds of. 20. Table of Contents. procedures, such as the creation and maintenance of dialysis access sites and endovascular therapies. Vascular surgeon training programs may focus on those therapies to the exclusion of open vascular procedures. If there is a decline in vascular surgeons training in open vascular procedures in favor of training in minimally invasive endovascular procedures, this could limit the number of vascular surgeons using our products due to lack skills in of open vascular procedures. Further, even those physicians trained in open procedures may discontinue performing them if there is a lack of demand. If this trend continues, it could lead to the fragmentation of our customer base, which would reduce cross-selling opportunities and the efficiency of each sales call by our sales representatives, which in turn could negatively impact our business.. We may acquire businesses and assets in the future. We may experience difficulties in completing the integration of these acquisitions into our business, or we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions.. In order to expand our product offerings, we have completed 19 acquisitions, and a key part of our strategy is to acquire additional businesses, products, or technologies in the future. Our growth strategy depends, in part, upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete, and integrate suitable acquisitions. If we are unable to complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms or at all, our growth objectives and sales could be negatively affected.. Even if we complete acquisitions, we may experience:. <U+0095>   difficulties in integrating any acquired businesses, personnel, and products into our existing business;. <U+0095>   difficulties or delays in integrating manufacturing operations into our existing business or successfully replicating manufacturing processes at new manufacturing facilities on a cost-effective basis;. <U+0095>   the sudden reduction in volume or loss of orders from a key customer, particularly where the acquired company had concentrated sales;. <U+0095>   diversion of our management's time and attention from other business concerns;. <U+0095>   higher costs of integration than we anticipated;. <U+0095>   unknown or unanticipated liabilities included as part of the acquisition;. <U+0095>   disputes or litigation with former owners related to contingent payments, liabilities assumed or not assumed or other matters;. <U+0095>   challenges in complying with new regulatory requirements to which we were not previously subject;. <U+0095>   increased regulatory scrutiny;. <U+0095>   difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these acquisitions;. <U+0095>   difficulties if the acquired company is remote or inconvenient to our Burlington, Massachusetts, headquarters, such as the operations we acquired in 2014 in Australia;. <U+0095>   difficulties or delays in transitioning clinical studies or unfavorable results from such clinical studies;. <U+0095>   loss of key suppliers or issues with the ongoing supply of the acquired product from its former owners;. <U+0095>   charges related to the acquisition of in-process research and development;. <U+0095>   dilution as a result of equity financing required to fund acquisition costs; or. <U+0095>   debt as a result of debt financing required to fund acquisition costs, which would be senior to our common stock and would require interest payments to a lender.. We could also discover deficiencies withheld from us due to fraud or otherwise not uncovered in our due diligence prior to an acquisition, including but not limited to deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and. 21. Table of Contents. integrity, product quality, and regulatory compliance, as well as undisclosed contractual or other liabilities and product liabilities, any of which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Any of these difficulties could negatively impact our ability to realize the intended and anticipated benefits that we currently expect from our acquisitions or from acquisitions we complete in the future and could harm our financial condition and results of operations.. For instance, in August 2014, we acquired all of the capital stock of Xenotis Pty Ltd, the parent company of Bio Nova International, which was the manufacturer of our Omniflow II biosynthetic vascular graft. Bio Nova's operations are located in North Melbourne, Australia, and we currently expect to continue operations in Australia for the foreseeable future. Our ability to manage these operations efficiently and effectively may be impaired due to their distance from our Burlington, Massachusetts headquarters.. In 2016, we acquired the ProCol vascular graft, which continues to be manufactured by the company from which we acquired the device. We expect to complete the transfer of manufacturing of the ProCol vascular graft to Burlington in 2018, subject to regulatory approval; however there can be no assurances that this will be achieved on the expected timetable or that transfer costs will not exceed our expectations.. We also acquired the processing, preservation and distribution operations of RestoreFlow allografts in 2016, and we intend to continue conducting such operations at our Fox Rover Grove, Illinois facility. See \"Our tissue processing and preservation services are subject to a variety of risks, including those related to the procurement of human tissue and regulatory requirements\" below for risks associated with our tissue processing and preservation services.. For any of these reasons or as a result of other factors, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions and our operating results may be harmed.. Our tissue processing and preservation services are subject to a variety of risks, including those related to the procurement of human tissue and regulatory requirements.. In November 2016, we acquired the processing, preservation and distribution operations for the RestoreFlow allograft. Prior to the acquisition, we did not provide any services related to human tissue. Our ability to successfully provide such services may be affected by the following:. <U+0095>   maintenance of quality standards and controls to mitigate the risk that processed tissue cannot be sterilized;. <U+0095>   compliance with regulatory and legal requirements specific to human tissue, with which we were previously unfamiliar, or changes in those requirements;. <U+0095>   maintenance of our AATB accreditation, FDA establishment registration and state licensures;. <U+0095>   the degree to which our tissue procurement organizations are successful in procuring the gift of tissue donation;. <U+0095>   procurement from tissue procurement organizations of adequate amounts of human tissue of a type and quality that meets our specifications;. <U+0095>   processing human tissue in a cost effective manner;. <U+0095>   controlling turnover in a workforce skilled in tissue processing and cryopreservation and any subsequent delay necessary for the adequate training of new personnel; and. <U+0095>   compliance of our tissue procurement organizations to current good tissue practices and our procurement procedures.. Our failure in any one or more of these areas could adversely impact our ability to provide processing, preservation and distribution services related to allografts and therefore our operations.. 22. Table of Contents. Our dependence on sole- and limited-source suppliers could hinder our ability to deliver our products and services to our customers on a timely basis or at all and could harm our results of operations.. We rely on sole- and limited-source suppliers for some of our important product components and certain products. For example, our TRIVEX system and associated disposables, as well as components of our EndoRE remote endarterectomy product line, are manufactured for us by third-party suppliers. Additionally, we rely on a sole-source supplier for the ovine material used for our Omniflow II biosynthetic vascular graft, and the ProCol vascular graft continues to be manufactured by the company from which we acquired the device.. There are relatively few, or in some cases no, alternative, validated sources of supply for these components and products. And in some cases, we do not have supply agreements with these suppliers, instead placing orders on an as-needed basis. At any time, these suppliers could discontinue or become incapable of the manufacture or supply of these components or products on acceptable terms or otherwise. We do not ordinarily carry a significant inventory of these components and products. Identifying and qualifying additional or replacement suppliers, if required, may not be accomplished quickly or at all and could involve significant additional costs. Any supply interruption from our suppliers or failure to obtain replacement suppliers would interrupt our ability to manufacture our products and result in production delays and increased costs and may limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. This could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation, and our financial condition or results of operations may be harmed.. With respect to our RestoreFlow allografts, we rely on tissue procurement organizations to provide donated tissue to us for processing and cryopreservation. While we have relationships with multiple tissue procurement organizations, we cannot be sure that the supply of suitable human tissue will be available to us at the levels we need, in which case our revenues from allografts could be adversely affected.. Any disruption in our manufacturing facilities could harm our results of operations.. Our principal worldwide executive, distribution, and manufacturing operations are located in four leased facilities located in Burlington, Massachusetts. We also have a manufacturing site in North Melbourne, Australia and a tissue processing and preservation and distribution facility in Fox River Grove, Illinois. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace in the event of a natural or man-made disaster. In such event, we could not shift production or processing to alternate manufacturing facilities, and we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers, if available at all. Although we carry insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses, including potential damage to our reputation, and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. We depend on our senior management team and other key sales and technical personnel, and if we are unable to retain them or recruit additional qualified personnel we may not be able to manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives.. We depend on the continued services of our senior management team and other key sales and technical personnel, as well as our ability to continue to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel. Each of our key employees may terminate his or her employment with us at any time, and the loss of any of our senior management team or key employees could harm our business. Because we compete for such personnel with other companies, academic institutions, government entities, and other organizations, we may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel on acceptable terms. Any loss or interruption of the services of our key personnel could also significantly reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations and meet our commercial or strategic objectives, because we cannot assure you that we would be able to find an appropriate replacement on a timely basis when the need arises. For example, the role of Vice President, Sales, The Americas has been vacant since July 8, 2017 due to the departure of the individual formerly filling that role. While we. 23. Table of Contents. search for a replacement, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, George W. LeMaitre is filling that role on an interim basis, which requires significant time and attention from him. If we cannot fill that role promptly and effectively, then his time and attention will continue to be diverted to that role and our business could be adversely impacted.. Certain of our products contain materials derived from animal sources and may become subject to additional regulation.. Our AlboGraft vascular graft, AlboSure vascular patch, XenoSure biologic patch and ProCol vascular graft products contain bovine tissue or material derived from bovine tissue, and our Omniflow II Biosynthetic Vascular Graft contains ovine tissue. Products that contain materials derived from animal sources, including food, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, are increasingly subject to scrutiny in the media and by regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities are concerned about the potential for the transmission of disease from animals to humans via those materials. This public scrutiny has been particularly acute in Japan and Western Europe with respect to products derived from animal sources, because of concern that bovine materials infected with the agent that causes bovine spongiform encephalopathy, otherwise known as BSE or mad cow disease, may, if ingested or implanted, cause a variant of the human Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, an ultimately fatal disease with no known cure. Cases of BSE in cattle discovered in Canada and the United States have increased awareness of the issue in North America. Certain regions or countries have issued regulations that require products to be processed from bovine tissue sourced from countries, like Australia or New Zealand, where no cases of BSE have occurred. Products that contain materials derived from animals, including our products, may become subject to additional regulation, or even be banned in certain countries, because of concern over the potential for the transmission of infectious agents. Significant new regulation, or a ban of our products, could impair our current business or our ability to expand our business, and in the case of a ban or suspension, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. We face intense competition from other companies, technologies, and alternative medical procedures and we may not be able to compete effectively.. The segments in which we compete are highly competitive, subject to change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other activities of industry participants. Although no one company competes against us in all of our product lines or services, a number of manufacturers of peripheral vascular devices have substantially greater capital resources, larger customer bases, broader product lines, larger sales forces, greater marketing and management resources, larger research and development staffs, and larger facilities than ours; have established reputations with our target customers; and have developed worldwide distribution channels that are more effective than ours. Our competitors could elect to devote additional resources to the segments in which we currently enjoy less competition. Also, although we currently have leading positions in the segments for some of our products, this is not true for all of our products. From time to time, we have experienced difficulties competing against large companies.. Recent industry consolidation could make the competitive environment more difficult for smaller companies like ours. Our competitors may be companies who are larger than us and who have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, regulatory, marketing, sales, and personnel resources than we do. Certain of these competitors are able to manufacture at lower costs and may therefore offer comparable products at lower prices. Certain of these competitors may also have greater experience in developing and further improving products, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing such products. Certain of these competitors may obtain patent protection or regulatory approval or clearance, or achieve product commercialization, before us, any of which could materially adversely affect us. Further, if the trend towards endovascular procedures versus open vascular procedures continues or accelerates, our competitors may be better poised to take advantage of that trend, since our main product lines are used primarily in open vascular procedures. Because of the size of the vascular disease market opportunity, competitors and potential competitors have dedicated, and we believe will continue to dedicate, significant resources to aggressively promote their. 24. Table of Contents. products. Also, new product developments that could compete with us more effectively are likely because the vascular disease market is characterized by extensive research efforts and technological progress. Competitors may develop technologies and products that are safer, more effective, easier to use, less expensive, or more readily accepted than ours. Their products could make our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may also be able to achieve more efficient manufacturing and distribution operations than we can. In addition, many of our products face competition from alternative procedures that utilize a different kind of medical device that we do not currently sell. Increased competition could also result in price reductions and loss of market share, any of which could result in lower revenues and reduced gross profits.. If we are unable to increase our selling prices to customers, or if we are required to make price concessions, our rate of net sales growth could be reduced and our operating results could suffer.. In the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, a material portion of our increases in net sales was driven by higher average selling prices to our hospital customers across several of our product lines, particularly with respect to sales of our 1.5mm HYDRO LeMaitre Valvulotome and with respect to sales occurring in the United States. In the past, we have been able to rely upon our intellectual property position, our well-known brands, and our established reputation in the vascular surgery device marketplace to implement price increases. We implemented a significant price increase in 2015 for our 1.5mm HYDRO LeMaitre Valvulotome, and our ability to implement additional price increases with respect to that product in the future may be limited. We also experienced an increase in net sales of our XenoSure biologic patch in 2016, which was due in part to the recall of a competitive product. That recall has since been resolved, and we have only retained a portion of the customers who switched to our product during the recall. If we are unable to retain those customers, then our XenoSure biologic patch sales could be lower than expected.. Additionally, we may become unable to implement further increases in the selling prices of our products:. <U+0095>   if healthcare spending is reduced, particularly in the United States, in response to government-enacted healthcare reform, general economic conditions, or the influence of accountable care organizations;. <U+0095>   if the reimbursement rates for the medical procedures in which our products are used are reduced or limited; or. <U+0095>   if competitors introduce lower-priced products of comparable safety and efficacy.. We also expect marketplace changes to increasingly place pressure on medical device pricing as hospitals join group purchasing organizations, integrated delivery networks, managed care organizations and other groups that seek to aggregate purchasing power and as hospitals are given financial incentives to improve quality and reduce costs. Due to pricing pressures, surgeons may even perform alternative procedures in which our products are unnecessary.. If we become unable to raise selling prices, or if we are required to make price concessions, it could reduce our rate of net sales growth and harm our operating results.. The risks inherent in operating internationally and the risks of selling and shipping our products and of purchasing our components and products internationally may adversely impact our net sales, results of operations, and financial condition.. We derive a significant portion of our net sales from operations in markets outside of the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2017, 42% of our net sales were derived from our operations outside of the United States. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents, and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include:. <U+0095>   fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. 25. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations, including export licensing requirements, duties and tariffs, and other trade restrictions, whether due to, or in reaction to, changes in U.S. trade policy under President Trump or otherwise;. <U+0095>   the risk of non-compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by our sales representatives or our distributors;. <U+0095>   changing medical device regulations that may impede our ability to register our products in a jurisdiction;. <U+0095>   the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person, or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person, or entity, whether due to , or in reaction to, changes in U.S. foreign policy under President Trump or otherwise;. <U+0095>   a shortage of high-quality sales personnel and distributors;. <U+0095>   loss of any key personnel who possess proprietary knowledge, or who are otherwise important to our success in certain international markets;. <U+0095>   changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products;. <U+0095>   the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives, and distributors;. <U+0095>   scrutiny of foreign tax authorities, which could result in significant fines, penalties, and additional taxes being imposed on us;. <U+0095>   pricing pressure that we may experience internationally;. <U+0095>   laws and business practices favoring local companies;. <U+0095>   longer payment cycles;. <U+0095>   difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;. <U+0095>   difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights;. <U+0095>   exposure to different legal and political standards; and. <U+0095>   political, economic, and/or social instability.. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international sales would adversely impact our net sales, results of operations, and financial condition.. The use or misuse of our products and tissues we distribute may result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business.. If our products or the tissue we process and preserve are defectively designed, manufactured, processed or labeled, contain defective components, or are misused, or if our products or the tissues we process and preserve are found to have caused or contributed to injuries or death, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Although we offer training for physicians, we do not require that physicians be trained in the use of our products or the tissues we distribute, and physicians may use our products or the tissues we distribute incorrectly or in procedures not contemplated by us. We are from time to time involved in product liability claims. Product liability claims could divert management's attention from our core business, be expensive to defend, and result in sizable damage awards against us. Claims of this nature may also adversely affect our reputation, which could damage our position in the market and subject us to recalls.. 26. Table of Contents. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance coverage will be sufficient to satisfy any claim made against us. Further, we may not be able to maintain the same level of coverage, and we may not be able to obtain adequate coverage at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing coverage in the future. Additionally, if any such product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or is in excess of our insurance coverage, our business could be harmed.. From time to time, we are involved in litigation where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense.. We are subject, from time to time, to legal proceedings and litigation, including, but not limited to, actions relating to product liability, employment matters, intellectual property, contract disputes and other commercial matters. Because the outcome of litigation is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of litigation, or even simply the defense of litigation, could entail significant cost for us and harm our business. The fact that we operate in international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal exposures as we seek to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. If any such proceedings were to result in an unfavorable outcome, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to convert additional countries or products from distributor sales to direct sales, or encounter difficulties in effecting such conversions, our results of operations could suffer.. We have a history of converting international distributor sales to direct-to-hospital sales by buying out our foreign distributor agreements and selling directly to hospitals through our own established sales representatives. In the future, we may elect to convert select additional countries and products from distributor sales to direct sales. Such conversions sometimes result in disruptions in our sales in the applicable geographies. These transitions may also have an adverse effect on our cash flow from operations because distributors, unlike direct sales personnel, pay us for inventory that they stock for later sale. In addition, switching to a direct sales force may subject us to longer customer collection times and larger bad debt expense, since we would be required to collect customer payments directly rather than through a distributor.. Our distribution agreements are exclusive, where permissible, with terms of up to five years. These agreements may temporarily constrain our ability to convert certain countries or products from a distributor to a direct sales model. In order to ensure a successful market transition, we may compensate a distributor in connection with the termination of their distributorship, even where the payment of compensation is not required by contract or local law.. Following termination of any distribution agreement, we may encounter difficulties in transitioning to a direct-sales model in any country in question. The transition to a direct sales model may require us to meet regulatory requirements that were previously the responsibility of the distributor, which may subject us to additional costs. It also may take us longer than expected to find sufficient qualified sales personnel to establish an effective sales force, which could negatively impact projected sales. If a distributor sold our products through a network of sales agents, rather than exclusively through its own personnel, we may not be able to establish relationships with all members of that network, temporarily limiting our access to the existing market. Similarly, failure to maintain or quickly re-establish a distributor's close relationships with the physicians who use our products could reduce sales. Further, it may be difficult or impossible to transfer the assignment of a distributor's rights to sell our products, and as a result, sales to customers may be delayed until a new agreement or approval is obtained. The transition to a direct sales model may also require us to incur additional expenses and may be time-consuming to manage remotely, as is the case with our sales office in China. As a result of these risks, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in transitioning to a direct sales model in the countries that we select, and difficulties that we encounter in these transitions could negatively affect our business.. 27. Table of Contents. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and other currencies may adversely impact our results of operations.. Our results of operations are reported in U.S. dollars. While the majority of our revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, a portion of our revenue and costs is denominated in other currencies, such as the Euro, the British pound, the Japanese yen, the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar. As of December 31, 2017, 42% of our net sales were derived from our operations outside of the United States. As a result, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates. Our results of operations and our operating expenses are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of those operations are translated from local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these foreign currency-based local operations will result in increased net assets, revenue, operating expenses, and net income. Similarly, our local currency-based net assets, revenue, operating expenses, and net income will decrease if the U.S. dollar strengthens against local currency. Additionally, transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency may result in gains and losses that may adversely impact our results of operations.. Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment. Oversight of the medical device industry might affect the manner in which we may sell medical devices and compete in the marketplace.. There are laws and regulations that govern the means by which companies in the healthcare industry may market their products and services to healthcare professionals and may compete by discounting the prices of their products and services, including for example, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal False Claims Act, the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, state law equivalents to these federal laws that are meant to protect against fraud and abuse and analogous laws in foreign countries. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, but not limited to, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Although in structuring our sales and marketing practices and customer discount arrangements we strive to comply with those laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that:. <U+0095>   government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing those laws will not assert that our sales and marketing practices or customer discount arrangements are in violation of those laws or regulations; or. <U+0095>   government regulators or courts will interpret those laws or regulations in a manner consistent with our interpretation.. Federal and state laws are also sometimes open to interpretation, and from time to time we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage if our interpretation differs from that of our competitors.. Our business is subject to complex, costly, and burdensome regulations. We could be subject to significant penalties if we fail to comply.. The production and marketing of our products and services and our ongoing research and development are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad. U.S. and foreign regulations applicable to medical devices and human tissues are wide-ranging and govern, among other things, the testing, marketing, and premarket clearance or approval of new medical devices and services related to human tissues, as applicable, in addition to regulating manufacturing and processing practices, reporting, promotion and advertising, importing and exporting, labeling, and record-keeping procedures.. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in governmental agencies or a court taking action, including any of the following:. <U+0095>   issuing public warning letters to us;. 28. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   imposing fines and penalties on us;. <U+0095>   issuing an injunction preventing us from manufacturing, processing, selling or distributing our products;. <U+0095>   bringing civil or criminal charges against us;. <U+0095>   delaying the introduction of our new products into the market;. <U+0095>   ordering a recall of, or detaining or seizing, our products or cryopreserved human tissue; or. <U+0095>   withdrawing or denying approvals or clearances for our products.. If any or all of the foregoing were to occur, our business, results of operations, and reputation could suffer.. If we are not successful in obtaining and maintaining clearances and approvals from governmental agencies for our medical devices, we will not be able to sell our products, and our future growth will be significantly hampered.. Our products require premarket clearance or approval in the United States and the CE Mark or other approvals in foreign countries where they are sold. Each medical device that we wish to market in the United States generally must receive either 510(k) clearance or approval of a premarket application, or PMA, from the FDA before the product can be marketed or sold. Either process can be lengthy and expensive. The FDA's 510(k) clearance procedure usually takes from three to twelve months from the date the FDA receives the application, but may take significantly longer. Although 510(k) clearances have been obtained for nearly all of our current products that require 510(k) clearances, the FDA may condition, limit or prohibit our sales of these products if safety or effectiveness problems develop with the devices. Our new products or significantly modified marketed products could be denied 510(k) clearance and required to undergo the more burdensome PMA approval process if they are not found to be substantially equivalent.. The PMA approval process is much more costly, lengthy, and uncertain than the premarket notification process. It generally takes from six months to three years from the date the application is submitted to, and filed with, the FDA, and may take even longer. Achieving premarket approval typically requires extensive clinical trials and may require the filing of numerous amendments with the FDA over time. We do not have significant experience in obtaining PMA approval for our products.. The FDA has previously proposed changes for which FDA clearance to market would possibly require clinical data, more extensive manufacturing information and post market data. As part of the 510(k) reform, the FDA proposes to issue regulations defining grounds and procedures for rescission of 510(k) applications that have previously been cleared to market. The FDA may also require the more extensive PMA process for certain products. Our ability to market our products outside the United States is also subject to regulatory approval, including our ability to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our products in the clinical setting. Even if regulatory approval or clearance of a product is granted, the approval or clearance could limit the uses or the claims for which the product may be labeled and promoted, which may limit the market for our products. If we do not obtain and maintain foreign regulatory or FDA approval with respect to our products, as applicable, we will not be able to sell our products, and our future growth will be significantly hampered.. If we or some of our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation and other applicable requirements, our manufacturing or processing operations could be disrupted, our sales and profitability could suffer, and we may become subject to a wide variety of FDA enforcement actions.. We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with all regulatory requirements. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply with any regulatory requirements, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions.. 29. Table of Contents. We and some of our suppliers must comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, which governs the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, testing, manufacture, control, quality assurance, installation, servicing, labeling, packaging, storage, and shipping of medical devices. Our Fox River Grove operations must comply with the FDA's current Good Tissue Practices, which are the FDA regulatory requirements for the processing of human tissue. The FDA enforces its regulations through pre-announced and unannounced inspections. We have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. The timing and scope of future audits is unknown and it is possible, despite our belief that our quality systems and the operation of our manufacturing facilities will remain in compliance with U.S, and non-U.S. regulatory requirements, that a future audit may result in one or more unsatisfactory results. If we or one of our suppliers fails an inspection, or if a corrective action plan adopted by us or one of our suppliers is not sufficient, the FDA may bring an enforcement action against us, and our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed.. We are also subject to the FDA's general prohibition against promoting our products for unapproved or off-label uses and to the medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or if our device malfunctions and a recurrence of the malfunction would likely result in a death or serious injury. We must also file reports with the FDA of some device corrections and removals, and we must adhere to the FDA's rules on labeling and promotion. If we fail to comply with these or other FDA requirements or fail to take adequate corrective action in response to any significant compliance issue raised by the FDA, the FDA can take significant enforcement actions, which could harm our business, results of operations, and our reputation.. In addition, most other countries, such as Japan, require us to comply with manufacturing and quality assurance standards for medical devices that are similar to those in force in the United States before marketing and selling our products in those countries. If we fail to comply, we would lose our ability to market and sell our products in those foreign countries.. Even after our products have received marketing approval or clearance, our products and the tissue we process may be subject to product recalls. Licenses, registrations, approvals and clearances could be withdrawn or suspended due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval.. Our products, services, marketing, sales and development activities, and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA, by comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. These authorities have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. If those regulatory bodies feel that we have failed to comply with regulatory standards or if we encounter unforeseen problems following initial approval, licensure or registration, there can be no assurance that any approval, licensure or registration will not be subsequently withdrawn, suspended or conditioned upon extensive post-market study requirements, even after having received marketing approval or clearance or licenses and registrations. Further, due to the increased scrutiny of our industry by the various regulatory agencies and the interconnectedness of the various regulatory agencies, particularly within the European Union, there is also no assurance that withdrawal or suspension of any of our approvals, licenses or registrations by any single regulatory agency will not precipitate one or more additional regulatory agencies from also withdrawing or suspending their approval, license or registration.. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, we can voluntarily recall, or the FDA or foreign equivalent could require us to implement a recall of or prohibit the sale of, any of our products. For example, in 2016 and in early 2017, we voluntarily recalled certain lots of our HYDRO LeMaitre valvulotome due to an issue with the product's closure mechanism. In February 2017, we voluntarily recalled certain lots of our Reddick cholangiogram catheter due to a labeling issue. While we took corrective actions to address these issues, there can be no assurance that there will not be a recurrence or that other problems related to our products will not develop in the future. And though the aggregate cost of these recalls to us was only $0.2 million, recalls could. 30. Table of Contents. result in significant costs to us and significant adverse publicity, which could harm our ability to market our products in the future.. With respect to our RestoreFlow allografts, we may voluntarily recall tissue, and in the event of non-compliance with the regulations governing human tissue, the FDA may issue a warning letter, order the recall and/or destruction of tissues and/or order the suspension or cessation of processing and preservation of new tissues.. Additionally, if someone is harmed by a malfunction or a product defect, we may experience product liability claims for such defects. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital and may harm our reputation and financial results. Future recalls or claims could also result in significant costs to us and significant adverse publicity, which could harm our ability to market our products in the future.. Domestic and foreign legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors and cost containment measures could decrease the demand for products purchased by our customers, the prices that our customers are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures using our devices.. Our products and our tissue preservation services are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians which typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid and comparable foreign programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of our products and services because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies by country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in significant overseas markets such as Germany, Japan, France and other countries may limit, reduce or eliminate reimbursement for our products and services and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products and services. Even when we develop or acquire a promising new product or service, we may find limited demand for the product or service unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors.. Major third-party payors for hospital services in the United States and abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs through, among other things, the introduction of cost containment incentives and closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers. For example, in an effort to decrease costs, certain hospitals and other customers may resterilize our products intended for a single use or purchase reprocessed products from third-party reprocessors in lieu of purchasing new products from us.. Further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement systems in the United States and abroad, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or result in the denial of coverage for those procedures. Examples of these reforms or adverse decisions include price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements. Any of such reforms or adverse decisions resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices or denials of coverage could have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them.. If we do not comply with foreign regulatory requirements to market our products outside the United States, our business will be harmed.. Sales of medical devices outside the United States are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. These requirements and the amount of time required for approval may differ from. 31. Table of Contents. our experiences with the FDA in the United States. In some cases, we rely on our non-U.S. distributors to obtain premarket approvals, complete product registrations, comply with clinical trial requirements, and complete those steps that are customarily taken in the applicable jurisdictions to comply with governmental and quasi-governmental regulation. In the future, we expect to continue to rely on distributors in this manner in those countries where we continue to market and sell our products through them. Failure to satisfy these foreign regulations would impact our ability to sell our products in these countries and could cause our business to suffer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain the required regulatory approvals in these countries.. Our products are regulated in the European Union under the European Medical Devices Directive (93/42/EC as amended by 2007/47/EC). In order to market our medical devices in the European Union, we are required to obtain CE mark certification, which denotes conformity to the essential requirements of the Medical Devices Directive. We have received CE mark certification to sell nearly all of our products. However, in April 2017, the European Union adopted new regulations for medical devices (MDR), which replace the Directive and apply after a three year transition period. Our products will be subject to the MDR, which require all of our products, regardless of classification, obtain a new CE mark in accordance with the new, more stringent standards under the MDR. For example, as a condition to CE mark approval, clinical evidence from clinical investigations will be required for Class III and implantable devices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a CE mark for products in the future or for modifications to our existing products or in the manufacturing of our products, and obtaining a CE mark may involve a significant amount of time and expense, stringent clinical and preclinical testing, or modification of our products and could result in limitations being placed on the use of our products in order to obtain approval. If we fail to obtain new CE marks on our products under the MDR in a timely manner, or at all, future sales of our products could be impacted.. Maintaining a CE mark is contingent upon our continued compliance with applicable European medical device requirements, including limitations on advertising and promotion of medical devices and requirements governing the handling of adverse events. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining the CE mark for any of our current products. In particular, adverse event reporting requirements in the European Union mandate that we report incidents which led or could have led to death or serious deterioration in health. Under certain circumstances, we could be required to or could voluntarily initiate a recall or removal of our product from the market in order to address product deficiencies or malfunctions. Any recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers and divert managerial and financial resources.. Failure to receive or maintain approval would prohibit us from selling these products in member countries of the European Union, and would require significant delays in obtaining individual country approvals. If we do not receive or maintain these approvals, our business could be harmed.. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by European regulatory authorities and Notified Bodies, and we must demonstrate compliance with the Medical Devices Directive. Our most recent inspections by our European Notified Bodies were conducted in January and February 2018. Any failure by us to comply with European requirements in this regard may entail our taking corrective action, such as modification of our policies and procedures. In addition, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations for some period of time until we can demonstrate that appropriate steps have been taken. There can be no assurance that we will be found in compliance with such standards in future audits.. We also pursue registrations in other jurisdictions in which we sell our devices directly, such as Japan and China. In 2015, the China Food and Drug Administration significantly increased the application fees for product registrations and imposed additional requirements for obtaining product approval, which includes requirements for conducting clinical trials to support the registration application process on newly introduced products in China. As a result, we may not seek registration for certain products where the cost is not justified. Any delay in product registrations could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. 32. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or prevent use of our intellectual property by third parties, we could lose a significant competitive advantage and our business may suffer.. Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our patents, trademarks, and other proprietary rights, and our ability to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property. We rely upon patent, trade secret, copyright, know-how, and trademark laws, as well as license agreements and contractual provisions, to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. These measures may only afford limited protection and may not:. <U+0095>   prevent our competitors from duplicating our products or services;. <U+0095>   prevent our competitors from gaining access to our proprietary information and technology; or. <U+0095>   permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage.. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. Any patents we have obtained or will obtain in the future might also be invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In addition, any pending patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not provide commercially meaningful protection, as competitors may be able to design around our patents to produce alternative, non-infringing designs. Should such challenges to our patents be successful, competitors might be able to market products and use manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to ours. Furthermore, patents expire after a certain duration, depending on the jurisdiction in which issued. To the extent any manufacturers are successful in challenging our patents or they enter the market following the expiration of our patents, this could have an adverse impact on our business and harm our sales and operating results.. Additionally, we may not be able to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information. We have a policy of requiring key employees and consultants and corporate partners with access to trade secrets or other confidential information to execute confidentiality agreements. Our confidentiality agreements also require our employees to assign to us all rights to any inventions made or conceived during their employment with us. We also generally require our consultants to assign to us any inventions made during the course of their engagement by us. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for us in the event of unauthorized use, transfer, or disclosure of confidential information or inventions.. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights effectively or to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies, products, or services and our competitors could commercialize similar technologies, which could result in a decrease in our sales and market share.. If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs, and we may have to redesign or discontinue selling the affected product.. The medical device industry is litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies operating in our industry routinely seek patent protection for their product designs, and many of our principal competitors have large patent portfolios. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed on third parties' intellectual property rights, and we cannot assure you that our products or methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing on third parties' intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could:. <U+0095>   be expensive and time consuming to defend;. 33. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties for past use of the asserted intellectual property;. <U+0095>   harm our reputation;. <U+0095>   cause us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;. <U+0095>   require us to redesign, reengineer, or rebrand our products, which may not be possible and could be costly and time consuming if it is possible to do so at all;. <U+0095>   require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property, which agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all;. <U+0095>   divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of our business; or. <U+0095>   result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation.. It is also possible that one of our competitors could claim that our manufacturing process violates an existing patent. If we were unsuccessful in defending such a claim, we may be forced to stop production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities.. In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten a product's continued life in the market even after it has already been introduced. If our business is successful, the possibility may increase that others will assert infringement claims against us.. If we believe our product is or may be the subject of a patent with a third party, we may attempt to reach a license agreement with them to manufacture, market, and sell these products. If we fail to reach an agreement with a third party patent holder that covers a product we offer, we could be required to pay significant damages to third parties for past use of the asserted intellectual property and may be forced to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property.. In addition, we may become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the United States Patent Office or opposition proceedings conducted in foreign patent offices challenging the priority of invention or the validity of our patents.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile, and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value.. There can be significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities that is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Shareholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price at which they purchased them due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, a reduced volume of trading in our common stock, and other factors.. Some factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include:. <U+0095>   actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects;. <U+0095>   our announcements or our competitors' announcements of new products;. <U+0095>   public concern as to the safety or efficacy of our products and services;. <U+0095>   the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements, and our filings with the SEC;. 34. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   our determination whether or not to continue the payment of quarterly cash dividends;. <U+0095>   our determination whether or not to undertake or continue a share repurchase program;. <U+0095>   strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings;. <U+0095>   dilutive issuances of additional securities;. <U+0095>   changes in our growth rates or our competitors' growth rates;. <U+0095>   developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights or those of our competitors;. <U+0095>   our inability to raise additional capital;. <U+0095>   new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. <U+0095>   the discontinuation of a product line or other revenue generating activity;. <U+0095>   adverse regulatory actions which may necessitate recalls of our products or services or warning letters that negatively affect the markets for our products or services;. <U+0095>   sales of common stock by us or our directors, officers, or principal stockholders;. <U+0095>   control by our affiliates and insiders of a significant percentage of our common stock;. <U+0095>   changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, comparable companies, or our industry generally; and. <U+0095>   light volume of trading in our common stock;. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. Our chief executive officer has significant voting power and may take actions that may not align with the interests of our other stockholders.. Our chief executive officer and the LeMaitre Family LLC collectively control approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017. As a result, these stockholders, if they were to act together, would have significant influence on many matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, might adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and may not be fully aligned with the interests of our other stockholders.. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and there are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends to common stockholders in the future.. In February 2011, our Board of Directors adopted a quarterly dividend program for the purpose of returning capital to our stockholders. However, we have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and our ability to pay dividends may be harmed by the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the other documents we file from time to time with the SEC. Future dividends, if any, will be authorized by our Board of Directors and declared by us based upon a variety of factors deemed relevant by our directors, including, among other things, our financial condition, liquidity, earnings projections and business prospects. In addition, financial covenants in any credit facility to which we become a party may restrict our ability to pay future quarterly dividends. We can provide no assurance of our ability to pay dividends in the future.. 35. Table of Contents"
