[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled \"Item 7  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. While we believe the risks and uncertainties described below include all material risks currently known by us, it is possible that these may not be the only ones we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND REGULATION. If we do not compete effectively in our target markets, increase the loan originations facilitated through our lending marketplace, or expand our lending marketplace to new markets, we may not succeed in growing our business, and as a result our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The consumer and small business lending market is competitive and evolving. We compete with financial products and companies that attract borrowers, investors or both, as described in \"Part I  -  Item 1  -  Business  -  Competition.\" Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and less expensive access to capital than we do and may have a greater market share, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower operating or financing costs, or have different profitability expectations than us. As a consequence, certain competitors may be able to offer lower rates to borrowers than we are able to offer, or they may be able to structure their loan products in a manner that would appear to be more attractive to a potential borrower.. To continue to grow our business, we must continue to increase loan originations through our lending marketplace by attracting a large number of new borrowers who meet our platform's lending standards and new and existing investors to invest in these loans. Our ability to attract qualified borrowers and attract new and retain existing investors each depends in large part on the success of our marketing efforts and the competitive advantage of our products, particularly as we continue to grow our lending marketplace and introduce new loan products. If any of our marketing channels become less effective, or the cost of these channels were to significantly increase, we may not be able to attract new borrowers and attract new and retain existing investors in a cost-effective manner or convert potential borrowers and investors into active borrowers and investors in our lending marketplace. If we are unable to continue to develop and successfully implement compelling and competitive product offerings, we may not be able to attract new borrowers and attract new and retain existing investors. If our loan offerings are priced less favorably than those offered by our competitors, potential borrowers may choose to take an offer from a competitor rather than ours. If there are not sufficient qualified loans facilitated on the platform, investors may be unable to deploy their capital in a timely or efficient manner and may seek other investment opportunities. If the performance of loans facilitated through our platform is lower than expected, we may be unable to attract new and retain existing investors. If there are insufficient investor commitments or participation, borrowers may be unable to obtain investment capital for their loans and may stop using our lending marketplace for their borrowing needs, which will impact our business results. If loan originations through our platform decrease, for any reason, our financial results may be adversely affected. Furthermore, in response to the competitive landscape, if we restructure our loan products, including lowering or eliminating our transaction fees, our financial results may be adversely affected even if we are able to maintain or increase loan originations through our platform.. We incur expenses and expend resources upfront to develop, acquire and market new loan products and platform enhancements to incorporate additional features, improve functionality or otherwise make our lending marketplace more desirable to borrowers and investors.. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with issuing banks, our business will suffer.. We rely on issuing banks to originate all loans and to comply with various federal, state and other laws, as discussed more fully above in \"Part I  -  Item 1  -  Business  -  Relationships with Issuing Bank Partners.\". 19. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. Our agreements with WebBank are non-exclusive and do not prohibit WebBank from working with our competitors or from offering competing services. WebBank currently offers loan programs through other online lending marketplaces and other alternative lenders. WebBank could decide that working with us is not in its interest or could decide to enter into exclusive or more favorable relationships with our competitors. In addition, WebBank may not perform as expected under our agreements including potentially being unable to accommodate our projected growth in loan volume. We could in the future have disagreements or disputes with WebBank or other issuing banks, which could negatively impact or threaten our relationship.. WebBank is subject to oversight by the FDIC and the State of Utah and must comply with complex rules and regulations, licensing and examination requirements, including requirements to maintain a certain amount of regulatory capital relative to its outstanding loans. We are a service provider to WebBank, and as such, we are subject to audit by WebBank in accordance with FDIC guidance related to management of third-party vendors. We are also subject to the examination and enforcement authority of the FDIC as a bank service company covered by the Bank Service Company Act. We have indemnification obligations and exposure under our agreements with WebBank, including with respect to our compliance with certain applicable laws. In the event that our relationships with such backup issuing banks change, we may need to enter into alternative arrangements with different issuing banks. If WebBank were to suspend, limit or cease its operations or our relationship with WebBank were to otherwise terminate, we would need to implement a substantially similar arrangement with another issuing bank, obtain additional state licenses or curtail our operations. To date, no backup issuing banks have originated any loans through our platform and we do not believe that we have a backup origination arrangement that could be in a position to originate loans without significant investment in time and resources, resulting in a disruption to the business. Our relationships with such backup issuing banks are subject to a number of risks and may be subject to change or termination with appropriate notice.. We believe that our relationship with WebBank is critical to our business. However, if we need to enter into alternative arrangements with a different issuing bank to replace our existing arrangements, we may not be able to negotiate a comparable alternative arrangement. Transitioning loan originations to a new issuing bank is untested and may result in delays in the issuance of loans or, if our platform becomes inoperable, may result in our inability to facilitate loans through our platform. If we were unable to enter in an alternative arrangement with a different issuing bank, we would need to obtain a state license in each state in which we operate to enable us to originate loans, as well as comply with other state and federal laws, which would be costly and time-consuming. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining our relationships with WebBank, our ability to provide loan products could be materially impaired and our operating results would suffer.. We are regularly subject to litigation, and government and regulatory investigations, inquiries and requests, including matters related to our legacy management and the resignation of our former Chief Executive Officer.. We are regularly subject to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, lawsuits alleging regulatory violations such as Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) or Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) violations, government and regulatory investigations, inquiries or requests, and other proceedings involving consumer protection, privacy, labor and employment, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, information security, securities, tax, commercial disputes,record retention and other matters. The number and significance of these lawsuits, investigations, inquiries and requests have increased as our business has expanded in scope and geographic reach, and our products and services have increased in complexity. We have also been subject to significant litigation and regulatory inquiries following our 2016 Board Review and the resignation of our former CEO, as discussed more fully in \"Part II  -  Item 8  -  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  -  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  - Note 18. Commitments and Contingencies,\" below.. The scope, outcome and impact of claims, lawsuits, proceedings, investigations, inquiries and requests that we are subject to cannot be predicted with certainty. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. Furthermore, resolution of such claims, lawsuits, proceedings, investigations, inquiries and requests could result in substantial fines and penalties, which may materially and. 20. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. adversely affect our business. These claims, lawsuits, proceedings, investigations, inquiries and requests could also: (i) result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products or services, (ii) impose third party monitoring obligations, (iii) result in a modification or suspension of our business practices, or (iv) require us to develop non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. Furthermore, even following the resolution of any claims, lawsuits, proceedings, investigations, inquiries and requests against the Company, a regulatory enforcement agency could take action against one or more individuals or entities, which may require us to continue to incur significant expense for indemnification for any such individual or entity until such matters may be resolved. Any of these consequences could materially and adversely affect our business.. Holding loans on our balance sheet exposes us to credit, liquidity and interest rate risk, which may adversely affect our financial performance.. For a variety of reasons, a portion of the loans facilitated through our platform are purchased by the Company. One of these reasons is to support the Company's securitizations and other structured finance initiatives. Another reason is to mitigate temporary portfolio imbalances on our platform, which arise when there is insufficient investor demand for certain loans available for purchase.. Circumstances may require us to hold these loans for a short period or for a longer term. While these loans are on our balance sheet we have exposure to the credit risk of the counterparties to the loans (i.e., the borrowers). In the event of a decline or volatility in the credit risk of these borrowers the value of these held loans may decline. This may adversely impact the liquidity of these held loans, which could produce losses if the Company is unable to realize their fair value or manage declines in their value, each of which may adversely affect our financial performance.. Separately, we may also use our capital to invest in loans associated with the testing or initial launch of alternative loan terms, programs or channels to establish a track record of performance prior to facilitating third-party investments in these loans.. In the event we retain a significant inventory of loans on our balance sheet, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations will become more dependent upon the performance of the held loans.. Fluctuations in interest rates could negatively affect transaction volume.. All personal, auto, and small business loans facilitated through our lending marketplace are issued with fixed interest rates, and education and patient finance loans are issued with fixed or variable rates, depending on the type of loan. If interest rates continue to rise, investors who have already committed capital may lose the opportunity to take advantage of the higher rates, or may seek to invest capital in alternative investments. Additionally, potential borrowers could seek to defer loans as they wait for interest rates to settle, and borrowers of variable rate loans may be subject to increased interest rates. If interest rates decrease after a loan is made, borrowers through our lending marketplace may prepay their loans to take advantage of the lower rates. Investors through our lending marketplace would lose the opportunity to collect the above-market interest rate payable on the corresponding loan and may delay or reduce future loan investments. As a result, fluctuations in the interest rate environment may discourage investors and borrowers from participating in our lending marketplace and may reduce our loan originations, which may adversely affect our business.. If the credit decisioning, pricing, loss forecasting and scoring models we use contain errors, do not adequately assess risk, or are otherwise ineffective, our reputation and relationships with borrowers and investors could be harmed and our market share could decline.. Our ability to attract borrowers and investors to, and build trust in, our lending marketplace is significantly dependent on our ability to effectively evaluate a borrower's credit profile and likelihood of default. To conduct this evaluation, we utilize credit decisioning, pricing, loss forecasting and scoring models that assign each loan offered. 21. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. on our lending marketplace a grade and a corresponding interest rate. Our models are based on algorithms that evaluate a number of factors, including behavioral data, transactional data, bank data and employment information, which may not effectively predict future loan losses. If we are unable to effectively segment borrowers into relative risk profiles, we may be unable to offer attractive interest rates for borrowers and risk-adjusted returns for investors. Additionally, if these models fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers, we may experience higher than forecasted losses. We continually refine these algorithms based on new data and changing macro-economic conditions. However, there is no guarantee that the credit decisioning, pricing, loss forecasting and scoring models that we use have accurately assessed the creditworthiness of our borrowers, or will be effective in assessing creditworthiness in the future.. Similarly, if any of these models contain programming or other errors, are ineffective or the data provided by borrowers or third parties is incorrect or stale, our loan pricing and approval process could be negatively affected, resulting in mispriced or misclassified loans or incorrect approvals or denials of loans. While we have not incurred any material liabilities to date, if these errors were to occur in the future, investors may try to rescind their affected investments or decide not to invest in loans in the future or borrowers may seek to revise the terms of their loans or reduce the use of our lending marketplace for loans.. If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for loans, our business could be harmed.. We operate a lending marketplace for consumer credit, balancing borrower demand for loans against investor demand for risk-adjusted returns. We offer credit to borrowers across a range of credit profiles and rates and we offer investment opportunities across a range of risk-adjusted returns. In the event that borrower demand at a given credit rate exceeds investor demand for that product for a given period, we may need to fund the loans due to regulatory requirements or borrower relations reasons and hold those loans on our balance sheet, which carries certain risks. See \"Holding loans on our balance sheet exposes us to credit, liquidity and interest rate risk, which may adversely affect our financial performance.\". Alternatively, in the event that investor demand at a given return exceeds borrower demand for that product for a given period, there may be insufficient inventory to satisfy investor demand. If investors do not believe their demand can be met on our platform, they may seek alternative investments from ours. In the event we are unable to meet investor demand, we may be unable to meet our growth projections and our business may suffer.. The regulatory framework for our business is evolving and uncertain as federal and state governments consider new laws to regulate online lending marketplaces such as ours. New laws and regulations, including uncertainty as to how the actions of any federal or state regulator could impact our business or that of our issuing banks.. The regulatory framework for online lending marketplaces such as ours is evolving and uncertain. It is possible that new laws and regulations will be adopted in the United States and internationally, or existing laws and regulations may be interpreted in new ways, that would affect the operation of our lending marketplace and the way in which we interact with borrowers and investors. For a discussion of how government regulation impacts key aspects of our business, see \"Part I  -  Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulatory and Compliance Framework,\" \"Part I  -  Item 1  -  Business  -  Current Regulatory Environment, Consumer Protection Laws and Other Regulations\" and \"Part II  -  Item 7  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Regulatory Environment.\". Federal Regulatory Framework. OCC Guidance. As discussed in \"Part I  -  Item 1  -  Business  -  Current Regulatory Environment\" above, the OCC has considered the adoption of a Fintech Charter. We cannot predict whether or when the OCC will begin accepting applications for Fintech Charters, if we will pursue a Fintech Charter or other banking charter, or how this new Fintech Charter could impact our industry, business and results of operations going forward.. 22. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. As discussed in \"Part I  -  Item 1  -  Business  -  Current Regulatory Environment\" above, the CFPB previously announced that it intends to expand its supervisory authority through the use of \"larger participant rules.\" The CFPB has not announced specifics regarding its proposed rulemaking, and recently announced that it intends to review its policies and priorities. Consequently, there continues to be uncertainty as to how the CFPB's strategies and priorities, including any final rules, will impact our businesses and results of operations going forward.. State Regulatory Framework. As discussed in \"Part I  -  Item 1  -  Business  -  Current Regulatory Environment\" above, at the state level, certain states are considering the scope of their regulation and oversight of the financial technology industry. The application of state laws to our business, now or as they may be written or interpreted in the future, could have a significant impact on our ability to do business in any given state and may impact our business and results of operations going forward.. Federal and State Borrower and Consumer Protection Laws. As discussed in \"Part I  -  Item 1  -  Business  -  Consumer Protection Laws and Other Regulations\" above, we and our issuing bank partners must comply with regulatory regimes, including those applicable to consumer credit transactions, various aspects of which are untested as applied to our lending marketplace. Certain state laws generally regulate interest rates and other charges and require certain disclosures. In addition, other federal and state laws may apply to the origination and servicing of loans facilitated through our lending marketplace.. While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. In particular, the USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with FinCEN. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions and limit our ability to get regulatory approval of acquisitions. Recently several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations.. Failure to comply with these laws and regulatory requirements applicable to our business may, among other things, limit our or a collection agency's ability to collect all or part of the principal of or interest on loans. As a result, we may not be able to collect our servicing fee with respect to the uncollected principal or interest, and investors may be discouraged from investing in loans. In addition, non-compliance could subject us to damages, revocation of required licenses, class action lawsuits, administrative enforcement actions, rescission rights held by investors in securities offerings and civil and criminal liability, which may harm our business and our ability to maintain our lending marketplace and may result in borrowers rescinding their loans.. State Licensing Requirements. Where applicable, we will seek to comply with state small loan, loan broker, servicing and similar statutes. In U.S. jurisdictions with licensing or other requirements that we believe may be applicable to us, we comply with the relevant requirements through the operation of our lending marketplace with issuing banks or we will be seeking to obtain required licenses. Although we periodically evaluate the need for licensing in various jurisdictions, there is a risk that, at any given time, we will not have the necessary licenses to operate in all relevant jurisdictions. If we are found to not have complied with applicable laws and regulations, we could lose one or more of our licenses or. 23. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. authorizations, become subject to a consent order, face other sanctions or penalties or be required to obtain a license in such jurisdiction, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to continue to facilitate loans through our lending marketplace, perform our servicing obligations or make our lending marketplace available to borrowers in particular states, which may harm our business.. If the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace were found to violate a state's usury laws, and/or we were found to be the true lender (as opposed to our issuing bank(s)), we may have to alter our business model and our business could be harmed.. The interest rates that are charged to borrowers and that form the basis of payments to investors through our lending marketplace are enabled by legal principles including (i) the application of federal law to enable an issuing bank that originates the loan to export the interest rates of the jurisdiction where it is located, (ii) the application of common law \"choice of law\" principles based upon factors such as the loan document's terms and where the loan transaction is completed to provide uniform rates to borrowers, or (iii) the application of principles that allow the transferee of a loan to continue to collect interest as provided in the loan document. WebBank, the primary issuing bank of the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace, is chartered in, and operates out of, Utah, which allows parties to generally agree by contract to any interest rate. Certain states, including Utah, have no statutory interest rate limitations on personal loans, while other jurisdictions have a maximum rate. In some jurisdictions, the maximum rate is less than the current maximum rate offered by WebBank through our platform. If the laws of such jurisdictions were found to govern the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace (in conflict with the principles described above), those loans could be in violation of such laws.. As discussed in \"Part I  -  Item 1  -  Business  -  Current Regulatory Environment\" above, the decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in decision in Madden v. Midland Funding, LLC could create potential liability under state statutes such as usury and consumer protection statutes.. In addition, there has been (and may continue to be) other litigation challenging lending arrangements where a bank or other third-party has made a loan and then sells and assigns it to an entity that is engaged in assisting with the origination and servicing of a loan. In January 2017, the Colorado Administrator of the Uniform Consumer Credit Code filed suit against Avant, Inc., an online consumer loan platform. The Administrator asserts that loans to Colorado residents facilitated through the Avant platform were required to comply with Colorado laws regarding interest rates and fees, and that those laws were not preempted by federal laws that apply to loans originated by WebBank, the federally regulated issuing bank who originates loans through Avant's platform, as well as through our platform. In March 2017, WebBank filed its own lawsuit in federal district court for the District of Colorado seeking declaratory relief that loans originated by WebBank are \"valid when made\" and are subject to federal requirements that preempt Colorado state requirements. No assurance can be given as to the timing or outcome of these matters. However, the Colorado Department of Law has reached out to us to implement a temporary resolution of any dispute regarding these issues, pending the outcome of the litigation. These matters could potentially impact the Company's business, including the maximum interest rates and fees that can be charged and application of certain consumer protection statutes.. If a borrower were to successfully bring claims against us for state usury law violations, and the rate on that borrower's personal loan was greater than that allowed under applicable state law, we could be subject to fines and penalties, including the voiding of loans and repayment of principal and interest to borrowers and investors. We might decide to limit the maximum interest rate on certain loans facilitated through our platform, and we might decide to originate loans under state-specific licenses, where such a ruling is applicable. These actions could adversely impact our business. Further, if we were unable to partner with another issuing bank, we would have to substantially modify our business operations from the manner currently contemplated and would be required to maintain state-specific licenses and only provide a limited range of interest rates for personal loans, all of which would substantially reduce our operating efficiency and attractiveness to investors and possibly result in a decline in our operating results.. 24. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. A relatively small number of investors, including LendingClub, account for a large dollar amount of investment in loans funded through our lending marketplace and other investors may exert influence over us if we experience a slowdown in a significant amount of investment capital on our platform.. A small number of loan investors account for a large dollar amount of capital on our platform. Accordingly, these loan investors may exert significant influence over us, our management and operations.. If investors pause or discontinue their investment activity, we may need to provide incentives, and enter into different additional incentive structures or terms to attract investor capital to the platform. These arrangements may have a number of different structures and terms, including alternative fee arrangements or other inducements such as the use of our equity. Failure to attract investor capital on reasonable terms may result in us having to use additional capital to invest in loans or reduce origination volume. Such actions may have a material impact on our business and results of operations and may be costly or dilutive to existing stockholders. There is no assurance that we will be able to enter into any of these transactions if necessary, or if we do, what the final terms will be.. If these inducements or investment structures are not favorable to us, or are unsuccessful in attracting sufficient investment capital to our platform, we may use a greater amount of our own capital, compared to past experience, to fulfill regulatory purchase obligations or support short-term marketplace equilibrium.. A decline in social and economic conditions may adversely affect our customers, which may negatively impact our business and results of operations.. As a lending marketplace, we believe our customers are highly susceptible to uncertainties and negative trends in the markets driven by, among other factors, general social and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. Economic factors include interest rates, unemployment levels, natural disasters, gasoline prices, adjustments in monthly payments, adjustable-rate mortgages and other debt payments, the rate of inflation, relative returns available from competing investment products and consumer perceptions of economic conditions. Social factors include changes in consumer confidence levels and changes in attitudes with respect to incurring debt and the stigma of personal bankruptcy.. These social and economic factors may affect the ability or willingness of borrowers to make payments on their loans. Because we make payments to investors ratably only to the extent we receive the borrower's payments on the corresponding loan, if we do not receive payments on the corresponding loan, the investor will not be entitled to any payments under the terms of the investment or whole loan purchase agreement. In some circumstances, economic factors could lead to a borrower deciding to pre-pay his or her loan obligation. While the investor would receive the return of principal, interest would no longer accrue on the loan. Accordingly, the return for the investor or whole loan purchaser would decline. Personal loans facilitated through our lending marketplace are not secured by any collateral, not guaranteed or insured by any third-party, and not backed by any governmental authority in any way. We are therefore limited in our ability to collect on the loans if a borrower is unwilling or unable to repay. Similarly, there is no penalty to borrowers if they choose to pay their loan early.. We strive to establish a lending marketplace in which annual percentage rates are attractive to borrowers and returns, including the impact of credit losses and prepayments, are attractive to investors. These external economic and social conditions and resulting trends or uncertainties could adversely impact our customers' ability or desire to participate on our platform as borrowers or investors, thus adversely impacting the credit performance of the loans, notes, certificates and secured borrowings, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. See \"Part II  -  Item 7  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Current Economic and Business Environment.\". 25. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. If our collection efforts on delinquent loans are ineffective or unsuccessful, the return on investment for investors in those loans would be adversely affected and investors may not find investing through our lending marketplace desirable.. With the exception of our auto loan products, loans facilitated on our platform are unsecured obligations of borrowers, and they are not secured by any collateral. None of the loans facilitated on our platform are guaranteed or insured by any third party nor backed by any governmental authority in any way. We are the loan servicer for all loans supporting notes, certificates and secured borrowings, and we are the loan servicer for most, though not all, loans sold as whole loans. Our ability to collect on the loans is dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and consequently, collections can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including job loss, divorce, death, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. Accordingly, we and our designated third-party collection agencies may be limited in our ability to collect loans.. In addition, most investors must depend on LendingClub or our third-party collection agents to pursue collection on delinquent member loans. We generally use our in-house collections department as a first step when a borrower member misses a payment. Because we make payments ratably on an investor's investment (or whole loan buyer's loans) only if we receive the borrower's payments on the corresponding loan, if we cannot adequately perform collection services, the investor or whole loan buyer will not be entitled to any payments under the terms of the investment. In the event that our initial in-house attempts to contact a borrower member are unsuccessful, we generally refer the delinquent account to the outside collection agent. Further, if collection action must be taken in respect of a loan, we or the collection agency may charge a collection fee up to 35% of any amounts that are obtained (excluding litigation). These fees will correspondingly reduce the amounts of any payments received by an investor.. Similarly, the returns to investors may be impacted by declines in market rates for sales of charged-off loans to third party purchasers. In addition, because our servicing fees depend on the collectability of the loans, if we experience an unexpected significant increase in the number of borrowers who fail to repay their loans or an increase in the principal amount of the loans that are not repaid, we will be unable to collect our entire servicing fee for such loans and our revenue could be adversely affected.. We may incur substantial indebtedness and any failure to meet our debt obligations could adversely affect our business.. We can incur a significant amount of debt under our $120.0 million secured revolving credit facility and our $250.0 million warehouse credit facility. As of December 31, 2017, we have no outstanding balance under the secured revolving credit facility and $32.1 million in debt outstanding, in the aggregate, under our warehouse credit facilities. We may enter into additional financing arrangements, which could increase the aggregate amount of indebtedness we can incur.. Our ability to make payments on our debt, to repay our existing indebtedness when due, and to fund our business and operations and significant planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to pay with available cash or generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, if we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as utilizing available capital, limiting the facilitation of additional loans, selling assets, selling equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, any of which could impede the implementation of our business strategy, prevent us from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business and/or negatively affect our business. We also may not be able to refinance our indebtedness or take such other actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. Furthermore, as stated earlier, we have and may increasingly securitize assets and offer other similar structured instruments, such as our new Club Certificate product. To support these offerings and other initiatives, we have and will likely continue to use our credit facilities to finance the purchasing and holding of loans on our balance sheet,. 26. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. to ultimately be used in connection with such offerings and initiatives. If, however, we are unable to consummate these types of offerings or other initiatives in accordance with our expectations, we may be required to hold loans on our balance sheet for longer than expected, or until the maturity of the loans. This may adversely impact our ability to repay our indebtedness when due and divert resources away from other projects and initiatives.. Some of our debt carries a floating rate of interest linked to various indices, including LIBOR. If a change in indices, including the discontinuation or modification of LIBOR, results in interest rate increases on our debt, debt service requirements will increase, which could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results.. Credit and other information that we receive from borrowers or third parties about a borrower may be inaccurate or may not accurately reflect the borrower's creditworthiness, which may cause us to inaccurately price loans facilitated through our lending marketplace.. Our ability to review and select qualified borrowers depends on obtaining borrower credit information from consumer reporting agencies, such as TransUnion, Experian or Equifax, and we assign loan grades to loan requests based on our lending marketplace's credit decisioning and scoring models that take into account reported credit score, other information reported by the consumer reporting agencies and the requested loan amount, in addition to a variety of other factors. A credit score or loan grade assigned to a borrower may not reflect that borrower's actual creditworthiness because the credit score may be based on outdated, incomplete or inaccurate consumer reporting data, and we do not verify the information obtained from the borrower's credit report. Additionally, there is a risk that, following the date of the credit report that we obtain and review, a borrower may have:. • become delinquent in the payment of an outstanding obligation;. • defaulted on a pre-existing debt obligation;. • taken on additional debt; or. • sustained other adverse financial events.. In addition, borrowers supply a variety of information that is included in the loan listings on our lending marketplace, and it may be inaccurate or incomplete. To verify a borrower's identity, income or employment, our verification process and teams connect to various data sources, directly or through third-party service providers, contact the human resources department of the borrower's stated employer, or request pay stubs. However, we often do not verify a borrower's stated tenure, job title, home ownership status or intention for the use of loan proceeds.. If borrowers default on loans that are not priced correctly because the information provided by the borrowers or third parties is inaccurate, investors may try to rescind their affected investments in these loans or the loans may not perform as expected and our reputation may be harmed.. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the longer term underlying performance of our business.. Our operating and financial results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and may continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including as a result of the risks set forth in this \"Risk Factors\" section. The increased use of our balance sheet and the timing of capital markets transactions has had an impact on the quarterly performance of the business in recent quarters, leading us to reduce the earnings guidance or perform below the expectation of equity investors in a given period. Fluctuation in quarterly results may adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Our ability to offer our notes depends upon our compliance with requirements under federal or state securities laws.. We issue borrower payment dependent notes sold pursuant to the Note Registration Statement. We qualify as a \"well-known seasoned issuer,\" which allows us to file automatically effective registration statements with the SEC. Under SEC rules, for certain material updates, we must file post-effective amendments, which, if we do not qualify. 27. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. as a \"well-known seasoned issuer,\" do not become effective until declared effective by the SEC. We may fail to maintain our \"well-known seasoned issuer\" status if we do not file SEC reports on a timely manner or for other reasons. In addition, if we fail to file our Annual Reports on Form 10-K or quarterly reports on Form 10-Q on a timely basis or are otherwise required to suspend use of a registration statement for the notes, we could be required to suspend offering of our notes until the deficiency is resolved. Because we offer notes on a continuous basis, securities law restrictions may also limit our ability to market or advertise to potential investors.. We are also currently required to register or qualify for an exemption in every state in which we offer securities. Qualification in a state can be a time-consuming process, often requiring periodic renewals. Failure to timely renew these registrations may require us to pay penalties, suspend further offerings until we regain compliance and make rescission offers in connection with previously completed investments.. Certain states in which we offer notes also impose special suitability standards and other conditions for operation in their states, restricting the persons and conditions under which we may make offerings in these states. We do not offer our notes in all states due to the restrictions of certain states. While we believe that we may now rely on federal preemption of state registration and qualification requirements, states may interpret federal law as applied to our notes differently, possibly requiring us to continue to make filings in or limit operations in those states. Regardless of any such registration, qualification or preemption, we are subject to both state and federal antifraud rules of each state in which we operate.. As a result of these requirements, actual or alleged non-compliance with federal or state laws or changes in federal or state law or regulatory policy or could limit our ability to offer notes in certain states, require us to pay fines or penalties, or curtail our operations.. Any failure to protect our own intellectual property rights could impair our brand, or subject us to claims for alleged infringement by third parties, which could harm our business.. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret, trademark and other rights, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology, underwriting and credit decisioning credit data, processes and other intellectual property. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our copyright, trade secret, trademark and other rights or applications for any of the foregoing. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing on such rights. We may, however, be unaware of the intellectual property rights that others may claim cover some or all of our technology or services.. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. In addition, any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our loan products or operating our platform or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could seriously adversely affect our brand and adversely impact our business.. Any significant disruption in service on our platform or in our computer systems, including events beyond our control, could prevent us from processing or posting payments on loans, reduce the attractiveness of our lending marketplace and result in a loss of borrowers or investors.. In the event of a platform outage and physical data loss, our ability to perform our servicing obligations, process applications or make loans available on our lending marketplace would be materially and adversely affected. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology and our underlying network infrastructure are. 28. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. critical to our operations, customer service, reputation and our ability to attract new and retain existing borrowers and investors. Our platform systems are mirrored between two third-party owned and operated facilities. Our primary location is in Las Vegas, Nevada and is operated by Switch, Inc. Our secondary location is located in Santa Clara, California and is operated by CenturyLink. Our operations depend on each provider's ability to protect its and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, air quality issues, environmental conditions, computer viruses or attempts to harm our systems, criminal acts and similar events. If our arrangement with either provider is terminated or if there is a lapse of service or damage to their facilities, we could experience interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities.. Any interruptions or delays in our service, whether as a result of third-party error, our error, natural disasters, terrorism, other man-made problems, or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with our borrowers and investors and our reputation. Additionally, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. Our disaster recovery plan has not been tested under actual disaster conditions, and we may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage. These factors could prevent us from processing or posting payments on the loans, damage our brand and reputation, divert our employees' attention, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability and cause borrowers and investors to abandon our lending marketplace, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Fraudulent activity associated with our lending marketplace could negatively impact our operating results, brand and reputation and cause the use of our loan products and services to decrease and our fraud losses to increase.. We are subject to the risk of fraudulent activity associated with our lending marketplace, issuing banks, borrowers, investors and third parties handling borrower and investor information. We have taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. Under our agreements with investors, we are obligated to repurchase loans in cases of confirmed identity theft. The level of our fraud charge-offs and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if fraudulent activity were to significantly increase. High profile fraudulent activity or significant increases in fraudulent activity could lead to regulatory intervention, negatively impact our operating results, brand and reputation and lead us to take steps to reduce fraud risk, which could increase our costs.. In addition, in the past, third parties have attempted to defraud individuals, some of whom may be potential customers of ours, by misappropriating our logos and represented themselves as LendingClub in e-mail campaigns to e-mail addresses that have been obtained outside of LendingClub. In one particular scheme, these third parties have represented to individuals that they may obtain a loan if they pay an \"advance fee.\" Individuals who believe that the campaigns are genuine may forward funds to these unaffiliated third parties. We take steps to prevent these and other third-party fraud schemes; however, we cannot always be successful in preventing individuals from suffering losses in these schemes. Individuals who suffer damages due to the actions of these unaffiliated third parties may negatively view LendingClub, causing damage to our brand and reputation and reducing our business.. Our ability to protect the confidential information of our borrowers and investors may be adversely affected by cyber-attacks, internal employee or other insider misconduct, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or similar disruptions.. Our business involves the collection, storage, processing and transmission of customers' personal data, including financial information of borrowers and investors. The highly automated nature of our lending marketplace and our reliance on digital technologies may make it an attractive target and potentially vulnerable to cyber-attacks, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or similar disruptions. In addition, in certain circumstances we utilize third-party vendors, including cloud applications and services, to facilitate the servicing of borrower and investor accounts. Under these arrangements, these third-party vendors require access to certain customer data for the purpose of servicing the accounts. While we have taken steps to protect confidential information that we have. 29. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. access to, our security measures or those of our third-party vendors could be breached. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access to our lending marketplace or servicing systems could cause confidential borrower and investor information to be stolen and used for criminal purposes. Security breaches or unauthorized access to confidential information could also expose us to liability related to the loss of the information, time-consuming and expensive litigation and negative publicity. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, third-party vendor error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, our relationships with borrowers and investors could be severely damaged, and we could incur significant liability.. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized, improper or illegal access to our systems, our data or customers' data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly evolving, may be difficult to detect quickly, and often are not recognized until after they have been launched against a target. Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including, among others, hacking into the systems or facilities of us or our partners or customers, or attempting to fraudulently induce our employees, partners, customers or others into disclosing user names, passwords, or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. Certain efforts may be state-sponsored and supported by significant financial and technological resources, making them even more difficult to detect.. Federal and state regulators and many federal and state regulations require notice if data security breaches involve certain personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach are costly to implement and often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause borrowers and investors to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, would harm our reputation, we could lose borrowers, investors and ecosystem partners and our business and operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, our insurance policies carry a self-insured retention and coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches, and we may not be able to collect fully, if at all, under these insurance policies.. Cyber-attacks suffered by third parties could negatively affect our business.. We utilize certain information provided by third parties to facilitate the marketing, distribution, servicing and collection of loans. A cyber-attack suffered by a third-party that provides data to us could impact our ability to market, distribute, service or collect for borrowers or investors. For example, Equifax recently announced a significant cyber breach that impacted millions of consumers. We utilize certain information from Equifax to allow us to market our products through pre-screened offers to qualified borrowers. If a consumer elects to \"freeze\" their credit data, we will not be able to access their information to make these pre-screened offers.. In addition, if consumers cease to trust credit reporting agencies or other third-party data providers because of cyber-attacks, they may be less willing to participate in borrowing or investing activities generally, which could impact our business. Further, as a result of the release of personally identifiable information from a third-party platform, we could experience an increase in fraudulent loan applications or investor accounts. Under our policies, we reimburse investors for any loan obtained as a result of a verified identity fraud and any increase in identity theft could result in increased reimbursement costs.. Third party service disruptions may prevent us from being able to score and decision loan applicants, which may adversely affect our business.. Our credit decisioning and scoring models are based on algorithms that evaluate a number of factors and currently depend on sourcing certain information from third parties, including consumer reporting agencies, such as TransUnion, Experian or Equifax. In the event that any of third party from which we source information experiences a service disruption, whether as a result of maintenance, error, natural disasters, terrorism or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, our ability to score and decision loan applications may be adversely impacted. This may result in us being unable to approve otherwise qualified applicants, which may adversely impact our business by negatively impacting our reputation and reducing the number of loans we are able to facilitate.. 30. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. Negative publicity and unfavorable media coverage could negatively affect our business.. Negative publicity about our industry or our company, including with respect to the quality and reliability of our lending marketplace, effectiveness of the credit decisioning or scoring models used in the lending marketplace, the effectiveness of our collection efforts, statements regarding investment returns, changes to our lending marketplace, our ability to grow our borrower and investor base at a rate expected by the market, our ability to effectively manage and resolve borrower and investor complaints, our ability to manage borrower and investor accounts in compliance with regulatory requirements which may not be clear, privacy and security practices, use of loan proceeds by certain borrowers of ours or other companies in our industry for illegal purposes, litigation, regulatory activity and the experience of borrowers and investors with our lending marketplace or services, even if inaccurate, could adversely affect our reputation and the confidence in, and the use of, our lending marketplace, which could harm our business and operating results. Harm to our reputation can arise from many sources, including employee misconduct, misconduct by our partners or partners of partners, other online lending marketplaces, outsourced service providers or other counterparties, failure by us or our partners to meet minimum standards of service and quality, inadequate protection of borrower and investor information and compliance failures and claims.. The collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights.. We receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data. There are federal, state and foreign laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous U.S. and international jurisdictions, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. This regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in business practices or privacy policies, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or foreign laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could damage our reputation, discourage potential borrowers or investors from using our lending marketplace or result in fines or proceedings brought against us, our issuing banks or other third parties by governmental agencies, borrowers, investors or other third parties, one or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to laws, regulations and other applicable common law rules regarding privacy and privacy advocacy, industry groups or other private parties may propose new and different privacy standards. We could also be subject to liability for the inappropriate use of information made available by us. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws and privacy standards are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws or privacy standards may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and privacy standards, could result in additional cost and liability for us, damage our reputation, inhibit use of our lending marketplace and harm our business.. Risk retention rules and recent developments in our business may increase our compliance costs, impair our liquidity and otherwise adversely affect our operating results.. We have been using, and may increasingly use, securitizations and other structured financing transactions, like our CLUB Certificates, as a source of liquidity and financing for our business. Such transactions provide us with additional sources of investor demand for the consumer loans facilitated through our platform. If credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruptions, regulatory requirements or other factors impede our ability to complete additional structured financing transactions on a timely basis or upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our business may be adversely affected.. 31. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. Effective as of December 24, 2016, \"risk retention\" rules promulgated by U.S. federal regulators under the Dodd-Frank Act (the U.S. Risk Retention Rules) require a \"securitizer\" or \"sponsor\" of a securitization transaction to retain, directly or through a \"majority-owned affiliate\" (each as defined in the U.S. Risk Retention Rules), in one or more prescribed forms, at least 5% of the credit risk of the securitized assets. For the securitization transactions for which we have acted as \"sponsor,\" we have sought to satisfy the U.S. Risk Retention Rules by retaining a \"vertical interest\" (as defined in the U.S. Risk Retention Rules) through either a majority-owned affiliate (MOA) or directly on our balance sheet. For any CLUB Certificate transactions, we have sought to satisfy the U.S. Risk Retention Rules by retaining a 5% interest in the CLUB Certificate issued by the applicable series trust. See \"Part II  -  Item 8  -  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  -  Note 1. Basis of Presentation\" and \"Part II  -  Item 8  -  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  -  Note 6. Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities.\" In addition, in order to facilitate certain investor offerings in Europe, we have structured two of the securitizations for which we have acted as \"sponsor\" in 2017 to comply with the risk retention and ongoing monitoring and diligence requirements of Articles 404-410 of the CRR, as supplemented by E.U. secondary legislation, including Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No. 625/2014, Articles 50-56 of the AIFM Regulation, and Articles 254-257 of the Solvency II Regulation, together with any related technical standards or guidelines (the E.U. Risk Retention Rules). We have sought to satisfy the E.U. Risk Retention Rules by retaining a \"material net economic interest\" (as defined in the E.U. Risk Retention Rules) directly on our balance sheet.. Furthermore, we have also participated in other securitizations for which we have determined that we are not the \"sponsor,\" and accordingly, we have not sought to comply with any requirements that would be applicable to the \"sponsor\" of those transactions. The U.S. Risk Retention Rules are subject to varying interpretations, and one or more regulatory or governmental authorities could take positions with respect to the U.S. Risk Retention Rules that conflict with, or are inconsistent with, the U.S. Risk Retention Rules as understood or interpreted by us, the securitization industry generally, or past or current regulatory or governmental authorities. There can be no assurance that applicable regulatory or governmental authorities will agree with any of our determinations described above, and if such authorities disagree with such determinations, we may be exposed to additional costs and expenses, in addition to potential liability. Furthermore, we expect that compliance with the U.S. Risk Retention Rules (and other related laws and regulations), as currently understood by us, may entail the implementation of new forms, processes, procedures, controls and infrastructure. Such implementation may be costly and may adversely affect our operating results.. In addition to the increased costs we expect to be generated by our efforts to comply with the U.S. Risk Retention Rules and the E.U. Risk Retention Rules, as applicable, which may be significant, we expect the U.S. Risk Retention Rules and the E.U. Risk Retention Rules, as applicable, to tie up our capital, which could potentially have been deployed in other ways that could have generated better value for our shareholders. Holding risk retention interests or loans in contemplation of structured financing increases our exposure to the performance of the loans that underlie or are expected to underlie those transactions. Accordingly, although compliance with the U.S. Risk Retention Rules and the E.U. Risk Retention Rules, as applicable, would be expected to more closely align our incentives with those of the investors in our loans, it is also expected that poor loan performance may have a heightened adverse effect on the value of our shares. This may exacerbate the negative effects of poor loan performance on the value of our shares.. If we breach representations or warranties that we made in our securitization, whole loan or CLUB Certificate transactions, or if either we suffer a direct or indirect loss in our retained interests in these transactions, our financial condition could be harmed.. In 2017 we sponsored four sales of unsecured personal whole loans through asset-backed securitizations. In connection with these securitizations, as well as our whole loan and CLUB Certificate transactions, we made certain customary representations, warranties and covenants. If there is a breach of those representations and warranties that materially and adversely affects the value of the subject loans, then we will be required to either cure the breach, repurchase the affected loans from the issuing entity, replace the affected loans with another loan or make a loss of value payment, as the case may be. Any losses that result could be material and have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. 32. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. For a description of the interests we have retained in connection with complying with risk retention rules applicable to us as a sponsor of securitization transactions, see \"Risk retention rules and recent developments in our business may increase our compliance costs, impair our liquidity and otherwise adversely affect our operating results.\" In the event that we suffer losses on all or a portion of the interests in any securitization transaction that we have retained (whether to comply with applicable risk retention rules or otherwise), our financial condition could be harmed.. We may enter into similar transactions in the future and those transactions could likely entail similar and other substantial risks.. From time to time we may evaluate and potentially consummate acquisitions or other strategic transactions, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial results.. We may evaluate and consider strategic transactions, combinations, acquisitions, dispositions or alliances. These transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations if consummated. If we are able to identify an appropriate business opportunity, we may not be able to successfully consummate the transaction and, even if we do consummate such a transaction, we may be unable to obtain the benefits or avoid the difficulties and risks of such transaction.. Any strategic transaction, combination, acquisition, disposition or alliance will involve risks encountered in business relationships, including:. • difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, systems, data, technologies, products and services of the acquired business;. • inability of the acquired technologies, products or businesses to achieve expected levels of revenue, profitability, productivity or other benefits;. • difficulties in retaining, training, motivating and integrating key personnel;. • diversion of management's time and resources from our normal daily operations;. • difficulties in successfully incorporating licensed or acquired technology and rights into our platform;. • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies within the combined organizations;. • difficulties in retaining relationships with customers, employees and suppliers of the acquired business;. • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience;. • regulatory risks, including remaining in good standing with existing regulatory bodies or receiving any necessary pre-closing or post-closing approvals, as well as being subject to new regulators with oversight over an acquired business;. • assumption of contractual obligations that contain terms that are not beneficial to us, require us to license or waive intellectual property rights or increase our risk for liability;. • failure to successfully further develop the acquired technology;. • liability for activities of the acquired business before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations of laws, regulatory actions, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities;. • assumption of exposure to performance of any acquired loan portfolios;. • potential disruptions to our ongoing businesses; and. • unexpected costs and unknown risks and liabilities associated with the acquisition.. We may not make any transactions, combinations, acquisitions, dispositions or alliances, or any future transactions, combinations, acquisitions, dispositions or alliances may not be successful, may not benefit our business strategy, may not generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or may not otherwise result in the intended benefits. Any transactions, combinations, acquisitions, dispositions or alliances may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (and increased interest expense), liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill, which could adversely affect our results. 33. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders and the interests of holders of our indebtedness. In addition, we cannot assure you that any future acquisition of new businesses or technology will lead to the successful development of new or enhanced loan products and services or that any new or enhanced loan products and services, if developed, will achieve market acceptance or prove to be profitable.. If we were required to register as a broker-dealer under federal or state law, our costs could significantly increase or our operations could be impaired.. We issue securities and, in certain instances, offer them directly to investors. We are not registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC nor do we operate as a registered broker-dealer in any jurisdiction. This limits the methods and manners by which we may market and sell our securities. If a regulatory body were to find that our activities require us to register as a broker-dealer or to market and sell our securities only through a registered broker-dealer, we could be subject to fines, rescission offers or other penalties, and our compliance costs and other costs of operation could increase significantly.. We have incurred net losses in the past and may incur net losses in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, our accumulated deficit was $389.4 million. We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to be elevated for the foreseeable future as we continue to enhance our compliance systems, reestablish the growth of our business, attract borrowers, investors and partners, continue to defend the Company and indemnify individuals in connection with ongoing litigation and regulatory matters and further enhance and develop our loan products, lending marketplace and platform. These efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset these higher expenses. We may incur additional net losses in the future and may not maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.. We may have to constrain our business activities to avoid being deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940.. In general, a company that is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (Investment Company Act). The Investment Company Act contains substantive legal requirements that regulate the manner in which \"investment companies\" are permitted to conduct their business activities. We believe we have conducted, and we intend to continue to conduct, our business in a manner that does not result in our company being characterized as an investment company. To avoid being deemed an investment company, we may decide not to broaden our offerings, which could require us to forego attractive opportunities. We may also apply for formal exemptive relief to provide additional clarity on our status under the Investment Company Act. We may not receive such relief on a timely basis, if at all, and such relief may require us to modify or curtail our operations. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We design, create and offer products and services, including our platform, which incorporate proprietary technologies that involve risks and we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits anticipated.. We operate a platform to offer proprietary credit products to borrowers and exposure to credit for investors. Our products and services operate in a very dynamic industry and, to stay relevant and effective, we will utilize technology to develop our products and design our platform for greater efficiency. We expect spending in technology and data management and science will increase over time as we add computer scientists, designers, software engineers, data scientists and other employees. We seek to invest efficiently in several areas of technology and data and expansion of new and existing product categories and service offerings, such as our platform product. We also invest in our technology infrastructure to enhance the customer experience, improve our processes and more efficiently match borrower and investor demand. To best take advantage of these continued advances in technology, we are investing in initiatives to build and deploy proprietary and efficient software.. 34. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. We seek to achieve growth through the design, development, and support of our products and services, including a proprietary loan platform that incorporates advanced technologies. Our products and services, including our platform, change as we invest substantial amounts in research and development efforts to pursue advancements and better use our data. If our design and development efforts are delayed, or if third-party developers cannot timely deliver or perform to our standards, we may not meet customers' schedules or expectations. Such issues could result in material additional costs, including penalties that could be assessed under existing contractual provisions. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our technological advancements depends on a variety of factors, including meeting development, production, third-party requirements and approval and regulatory approval schedules; execution of internal and external performance plans; availability of third-party developers and suppliers; hiring and training of qualified personnel; achieving cost and production efficiencies; identification of emerging technological trends in our markets; validation of proprietary technologies; the level of customer interest in new technologies and products; and borrower and investor acceptance of our products and products that incorporate technologies we develop. These products and services may incorporate additional technologies developed by third parties and involve additional risks and uncertainties. As a result, the performance and market acceptance of these third-party products and services could affect the level of customer interest and acceptance of our own products in the marketplace.. Any development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and these efforts may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products or products that incorporate our technologies may not develop or grow as we anticipate. We or our customers, suppliers or subcontractors may encounter difficulties in developing and producing new products and services, and may not realize the degree or timing of benefits initially anticipated or may otherwise suffer significant adverse financial consequences. Due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of platform enhancements and new products. Any delays could result in increased development costs or deflect resources from other projects.. In addition, some of our agreements with platform investors contain provisions regarding the manner in which our lending marketplace platform product operates that could constrain the manner in which our lending marketplace platform product can develop, particularly with respect to how loans are selected for investment. Some of these agreements provide for significant damages in the event of a breach. These agreements could constrain the development of the marketplace or result in significant damages that could impact our results in a given period.. Our lending marketplace platform allows investors to select loans manually and build their portfolio note by note or, alternatively, by using our automated investing service to select loans based on investment criteria selected by the investor. Certain loans selected by manual service investors may be unavailable when the automated investing service orders are placed. Accordingly, the returns of the note holders using the automated investing service may vary from the returns of the note holders using the manual service, which may be higher than our automated investing service if manual service investors are able to identify and select higher performing loans.. If we fail to accurately estimate our costs or the time required to support or complete a product enhancement, including any platform enhancements, the profitability of our products and services may be materially and adversely affected. Some of our contracts provide for liquidated damages in the event that we are unable to perform and deliver in accordance with the contractual specifications and schedule. In addition, we may face customer directed cost reduction targets that could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our contracts. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of or instead of our platform and products. The possibility exists that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings that might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. 35. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. Any delay in the implementation of our technology systems could disrupt our operations and cause unanticipated increases in our costs.. We believe the technology platform that powers our lending marketplace enables us to deliver solutions to borrowers and investors and provides a significant time and cost advantage over traditional banks. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology and our underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, customer service, reputation and our ability to attract new and retain existing borrowers and investors. In addition, our future growth prospects are highly dependent on our ability to implement changes to our technology platform to support the future demands of our customers and industry. Our failure to implement changes to our technology platform and adapt to our customers' changing technological needs and requirements or to hire and retain qualified personnel and maintain our engineering and technological expertise could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Some aspects of our platform include open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business.. Aspects of our platform include software covered by open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, GNU General Public License and the Apache License. Open source license terms are often ambiguous, and there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses. Therefore, the potential impact of such terms on our business is somewhat unknown. If portions of our proprietary software are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, re-engineer all or a portion of our technologies or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our technologies, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our technologies and loan products. There can be no assurance that efforts we take to monitor the use of open source software to avoid uses in a manner that would require us to disclose or grant licenses under our proprietary source code will be successful, and such use could inadvertently occur. This could harm our intellectual property position and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow, and financial condition. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Many of the risks associated with use of open source software cannot be eliminated, and could adversely affect our business.. Our platform and internal systems rely on software that is highly technical, and if it contains undetected errors, our business could be adversely affected.. Our platform and internal systems rely on software that is highly technical and complex. In addition, our platform and internal systems depend on the ability of such software to store, retrieve, process and manage immense amounts of data. The software on which we rely has contained, and may now or in the future contain, undetected errors or bugs. Some errors may only be discovered after the code has been released for external or internal use. Errors or other design defects within the software on which we rely may result in a negative experience for borrowers and investors, delay introductions of new features or enhancements, result in errors or compromise our ability to protect borrower or investor data or our intellectual property. Any errors, bugs or defects discovered in the software on which we rely could result in harm to our reputation, loss of borrowers or investors, loss of revenue or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Misconduct and errors by our employees and third-party service providers could harm our business and reputation.. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of misconduct and errors by our employees and other third-party service providers. Our business depends on our employees and third-party service providers to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions, and if any of our employees or third-party service providers take, convert or misuse funds, documents or data or fail to follow protocol when interacting with borrowers and investors, we could be liable for damages, be subject to repurchase obligations and subject to regulatory actions and penalties.. 36. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. We could also be perceived to have facilitated or participated in the illegal misappropriation of funds, documents or data, or the failure to follow protocol, and therefore be subject to civil or criminal liability.. Any of these occurrences could result in our diminished ability to operate our business, potential liability to borrowers and investors, inability to attract future borrowers and investors, reputational damage, regulatory intervention and financial harm, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to attract and retain our highly skilled employees needed to support our business, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer.. We believe our success depends on the efforts and talents of our employees, including software engineers, financial personnel and marketing professionals. Our future success depends on our continued ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees. Competition for highly skilled technical and financial personnel, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area, is extremely intense. We have had a high attrition rate from employees and have seen that attrition rate increase. We may not be able to hire and retain these personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. Additionally, changes in U.S. immigration policy may make it difficult to renew or obtain visas for certain highly skilled employees that we have hired or are recruiting.. In addition to attracting and retaining highly skilled employees in general, our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including our executive officers, senior management team and other key personnel, all of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of the services of our executive officers or members of our senior management team, and the process to replace any of them, would involve significant time and expense and distraction that may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives or impair our operations or results.. If our registered investment advisor, LendingClub Asset Management, LLC (LCAM) (formerly known as LC Advisors, LLC), were found to have violated the Investment Advisers Act, our ability to raise sufficient investor commitments to meet borrower demand could be impaired.. Our subsidiary, LCAM, acts as an advisor to certain private funds and accredited investors, including those that invest in managed accounts that rely on a third-party adviser or manager to manage their investment through our lending marketplace. Registered investment advisers are subject to a number of regulatory and legal requirements, including fiduciary duties, conflicts of interest, advertising restrictions and custody requirements.. As previously described, the 2016 Board Review discovered that the investment parameters of one of the funds advised by LCAM, specifically with respect to the allocation of 60-month loans held by the fund, was out of tolerance. Further, we reviewed the methodologies used to determine the net asset values and monthly return figures reported for six private investment funds managed by LCAM and determined that adjustments were made to the valuation of the Fund's assets that were not consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These adjustments affected the direction and the specific returns reported in monthly statements sent to limited partners. We reimbursed limited partners who, during the life of any fund, entered or exited the funds and were adversely impacted by these adjustments. We subsequently liquidated the assets held in six of the funds advised by LCAM and distributed the proceeds to investors, some of whom elected to roll their proceeds into newly created private funds advised by LCAM. As previously disclosed, these matters were included in the 2016 Board Review, and such matters are being reviewed by the SEC and other state and federal regulatory agencies.. We believe we have conducted, and we intend to continue to conduct, the business of LCAM in substantial compliance with the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (Investment Advisers Act) and applicable. 37. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. fiduciary duties. If, however, we are deemed to have breached any of our obligations under the Investment Advisers Act, the activities of LCAM could be restricted, suspended or even terminated.. Short of any regulatory enforcement action, because LCAM is the general partner or investment manager for a series of private funds, we could be perceived as having a conflict of interest regarding access to loans versus other platform investors. While we have implemented controls and processes to mitigate any potential conflicts of interest, those controls and processes may prove to be ineffective. If this were to occur, our ability to provide investors with the opportunity to invest through private funds and managed accounts could be severely curtailed, our reputation could be damaged and we may not be able to sufficiently meet borrower and investor demand for loans, which could harm our business.. Investors in the limited partnership interests offered by LCAM or CLUB Certificates offered by the Company may be deemed to have been solicited by general solicitation or general advertising, and such investors could seek to rescind their purchase.. We offer member payment dependent notes publicly pursuant to the Note Registration Statement. In addition, the Company and LCAM offer CLUB Certificates and limited partnership interests, respectively. These offerings by the Company and LCAM are made privately with potential investors and separate from the public offering of the notes. Because of the fact-specific nature of what types of activities might constitute a general solicitation or general advertising, it is possible that some of these investors could assert that they became interested in an investment in these private offerings by LCAM or the Company through a general solicitation or general advertising with regard to those offerings or the public offering of notes. If it was determined that an investor's interest in the CLUB Certificates or limited partnership interests was the result of a general solicitation or general advertisement, the investor could claim that the sale of CLUB Certificates or limited partnership interests violated Section 5 of the Securities Act and could seek to rescind their purchase or seek other remedies, subject to any applicable statute of limitations. We would contest vigorously any claim that a violation of the Securities Act occurred, however, litigation is inherently uncertain and can be expensive and time consuming.. We have not reviewed our compliance with foreign laws regarding the participation of non-U.S. residents on our lending marketplace.. From time to time, non-U.S. residents invest in loans directly through our lending marketplace. We are not experts with respect to all applicable laws in the various foreign jurisdictions from which an investor may be located, and we cannot be sure that we are complying with applicable foreign laws. Failure to comply with such laws could result in fines and penalties payable by us, which could reduce our profitability or cause us to modify or delay planned expansions and expenditures, including investments in our growth. In addition, any such fines and penalties could create negative publicity, result in additional regulatory oversight that could limit our operations and ability to succeed, or otherwise hinder our plans to expand our business internationally.. Our ability to use our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations that could subject our business to higher tax liabilities.. We may be limited in the portion of net operating loss carryforwards that we can use in the future to offset taxable income for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) enacted on December 22, 2017, makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code. While future interpretative guidance of the Tax Act and how many U.S. states will incorporate these federal law changes may have an impact on our business, the Tax Act's reduction of the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018, has reduced our deferred tax asset associated with net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs). A lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to utilize our NOLs.. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Code), a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOLs to offset future taxable income. Future changes in our stock ownership as well as other changes that may be outside of our control, could. 38. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. result in additional ownership changes under Section 382 of the Code. Our NOLs may also be impaired under similar provisions of state law.. We assess the available positive and negative evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income will be generated to utilize the existing deferred tax assets. On the basis of this evaluation, a full valuation allowance has historically been recorded to recognize only deferred tax assets that are more likely than not to be realized.. Finally, further changes to the federal or state tax laws or technical guidance relating to the Tax Act that would further reduce the corporate tax rate could operate to effectively reduce or eliminate the value of any deferred tax asset. Our tax attributes as of December 31, 2017 may expire unutilized or underutilized, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income.. Our credit facilities provide our lenders with first-priority liens against substantially all of our assets and contains certain affirmative and negative covenants and other restrictions on our actions, and could therefore limit our operational flexibility or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition.. We have certain credit facilities that contain restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters. These restrictive covenants may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be impaired, and our business may be harmed.. If we fail to perform under the loan agreements for these credit facilities by, for example, failing to make timely payments or failing to comply with the required total leverage ratio, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. For more information regarding the covenants and requirements, see \"Part II  -  Item 8  -  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  -  13. Debt\" included in this Report.. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile.. Our stock price has declined significantly since the end of the first quarter of 2016 and has exhibited substantial volatility. Our stock price may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly operating results; changes in our financial projections provided to the public or our failure to meet those projections; changes in the credit performance on our platform; the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; significant transactions, or new features, products or services by us or our competitors; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; media coverage of our business and financial performance; the operating and stock price performance of, or other developments involving, other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; trends in our industry; any significant change in our management; and general economic conditions.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for companies in our industry, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to operating performance. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Price volatility over a given period may cause the average price at which we repurchase our own stock to exceed the stock's price at a given point in time. Volatility in our stock price also impacts the value of our equity compensation, which affects our ability to recruit and retain employees. In addition, some companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock, including us, have been subject to securities class action litigation. We have been the target of this type of litigation and may continue to be a target in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could harm our business.. 39. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. If we fail to meet expectations related to future growth, profitability, or other market expectations, our stock price may decline significantly, which could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention. A sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization could lead to impairment charges.. If we were to become subject to a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, the right of payment of investors in our notes may be senior to the right of payment of our stockholders and there may not be value recoverable by our stockholders.. Under the terms of the notes offered through our lending marketplace, we are obligated to pay principal and interest on each note on a non-recourse basis only if and to the extent that we receive principal, interest or late fee payments from the borrower on the corresponding loan, but the notes become fully recourse to us if we fail to pay such obligation, which would include being prohibited from making such payments as a result of a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, or if we breach a covenant under the indenture governing the notes. In a bankruptcy or similar proceeding due to a default under current or future indebtedness, an action for repurchase or rescission of securities or other event, there is uncertainty regarding whether a holder of a note has any right of payment from our assets other than the corresponding loan. It is possible that a note holder could be deemed to have a right of payment from both the corresponding loan and from some or all of our other assets, in which case the note holder would have a claim to the proceeds of our assets that is senior to any right of payment of the holders of our common stock, regardless of whether we have received any payments from the underlying borrower, making it highly unlikely that there would be any value recoverable by our stockholders.. We are subject to ownership concentration by certain significant stockholders.. Ownership of our common stock is concentrated among certain stockholders. For example, Shanda Investment Group Limited beneficially owns shares of our common stock representing approximately 20% of LendingClub Corporation's voting power as of December 31, 2017. We do not have any restrictions on any stockholder in favor of LendingClub Corporation other than as may be required by applicable law. Any single stockholder with a significant concentration could determine to vote shares in a manner that may be contrary to the interests of other minority stockholders, or such stockholder could sell shares in a manner that could affect our stock price. In addition, the concentration of shares may act as a deterrent to other potential investors purchasing our stock.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company.. Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws, contain provisions that can have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or changes in our management. The provisions, among other things:. • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time;. • permit only our board of directors to establish the number of directors and fill vacancies on the board;. • provide that directors may only be removed \"for cause\" and only with the approval of two-thirds of our stockholders;. • require two-thirds vote to amend some provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws;. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that our board of directors could use to implement a stockholder rights plan (also known as a \"poison pill\");. • eliminate the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;. • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which will require that all stockholder actions must be taken at a stockholder meeting;. • do not provide for cumulative voting; and. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at annual stockholder meetings.. 40. LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management.. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us in certain circumstances.. Any provision of our restated certificate of incorporation or restated bylaws, or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock."
