[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could cause our actual results to differ materially from past or expected results and are not the only ones we face. Other risks and uncertainties that we have not predicted or assessed may also adversely affect us.. If any of the negative effects associated with the following risks occur, our earnings, financial condition or business could be materially harmed and the trading price of our common stock could decline, resulting in the loss of all or part of stockholders' investments.. Risk Factors Related to Reimbursement and Government Regulation. We cannot predict the effect that health care reform and other changes in government programs may have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The PPACA and the Health Care Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the \"Acts\") were signed into law by President Obama on March 23, 2010, and March 30, 2010, respectively. The Acts dramatically alter the United States' health care system and are intended to decrease the number of uninsured Americans and reduce overall health care costs. The Acts attempt to achieve these goals by, among other things, requiring most Americans to obtain health insurance, expanding Medicare and Medicaid eligibility, reducing Medicare and Medicaid payments, and tying reimbursement to the satisfaction of certain quality criteria. The Acts also contain a number of measures that are intended to reduce fraud and abuse in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Because a majority of the measures contained in the Acts have either just recently or not yet taken effect, it is difficult to predict the impact the Acts will have on our operations. However, depending on how they are ultimately interpreted and implemented, the Acts could have an adverse effect on our business and its financial condition and results of operations.. The PPACA also amended the False Claims Act to provide that a provider must report and return overpayments within 60 days of identifying the overpayment or the claims for the services that generated the overpayments become false claims subject to the False Claims Act.  Overpayments include payments for services for which the provider does not have proper documentation.  If we were to identify documentation failures that could not be corrected, we could be required to return payments received for those claims within the mandated 60-day time period.  If we fail to identify and return overpayments within the required 60-day period we could be subject to. 21. suits under the False Claims Act by the government or relators (whistleblowers).  On February 13, 2015, CMS announced that it will delay finalizing regulations that were intended to clarify when a payment is \"identified\" for purposes of the 60-day rule.  Notwithstanding the delay, providers are still required to comply with the rule even though there is considerable uncertainty over exactly when the 60-day period begins.  Due to this uncertainty, our continued compliance with the False Claims Act and its implementing regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations.. Significant developments resulting from the recent U.S. presidential election could have a material effect on our business.. On January 30, 2017, President Trump issued an Executive Order entitled \"Reducing Regulation and Controlling Regulatory Costs\" that, among other things, will require federal agencies to cut two existing regulations for every new regulation they implement. The impact of any such changes to health care regulations on our financial performance and business prospects cannot be estimated at this time. It remains unclear what regulations might change, and whether any regulatory changes might affect, positively or negatively, our home health services, hospice services, community-based services, or facility-based services. Additionally, the new Executive Order also required a suspension of the implementation of any new planned regulations for a review period, which calls into question whether the implementation of changes to Conditions of Participation (CoPs) recently issued by CMS will be halted. Substantive changes to the regulations applicable to our business, in particular changes in compliance requirements or in reimbursement rates under Medicare, could have a material effect on our business and our financial performance.. Additionally, as a candidate, President Trump vowed to repeal and replace the PPACA. Significant changes to or the repeal of the PPACA could shift the U.S. health care system away from government reimbursement toward private business. It remains unclear which provisions of the PPACA will change, and whether any changes will affect our business or financial performance.. The appointment of Alex Azar as the new Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) may also affect our business.  During his confirmation hearings, Mr. Azar expressed his personal opinions concerning the need to improve the way that Medicare and Medicaid reimburse for end-of-life care and praised the role that home health companies play in efforts to lower government health spending.  While we look forward to working with Secretary Azar and HHS under his leadership, we cannot anticipate the effect that the appointment of Secretary Azar will have on HHS policy and/or Medicare or Medicaid reimbursements.. The impact of the recent significant federal tax reform on the combined company is uncertain and may significantly affect the operations of the combined company.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") into law. The Tax Act is the most comprehensive tax legislation signed into law in over three decades and makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code. The Tax Act will significantly change how our earnings are taxed, including, among other items, (1) reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, (2) repealing the corporate alternative minimum tax (\"AMT\") and changing how existing AMT credits can be utilized, (3) temporarily providing for elective immediate expensing for certain depreciable property, (4) creating a new limitation on deductible interest expense, and (5) changing rules related to uses and limitations of net operating loss carryforwards created in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. While we currently expect the Tax Act to have a long-term positive impact on our net income, we are continuing to evaluate the impact of the Tax Act on our current and prospective business and such impact remains uncertain. Furthermore, our financial results may be negatively impacted should tax rates be increased in the future or otherwise adversely affected by changes in allowable expense deductions.. We derive a majority of our consolidated net service revenue from Medicare. If there are changes in Medicare rates or methods governing Medicare payments for our services, or if we are unable to control our costs, our results of operations and cash flows could decline materially.. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we received 71.0%, 74.5% and 74.5%, respectively, of our net service revenue from Medicare. Reductions in Medicare rates or changes in the way Medicare pays for services could cause our net service revenue and net income to decline, perhaps materially. See Part I, Item 1. Reimbursement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding reimbursements. Reductions in Medicare reimbursement could be caused by many factors, including:. • administrative or legislative changes to the base rates under the applicable prospective payment systems;. • the reduction or elimination of annual rate increases;. • the imposition or increase by Medicare of mechanisms shifting more responsibility for a portion of payment to beneficiaries, such as co-payments;. • adjustments to the relative components of the wage index used in determining reimbursement rates;. • changes to case mix or therapy thresholds;. • the reclassification of home health resource groups or long-term care diagnosis-related groups; or. • further limitations on referrals to long-term acute care hospitals from host hospitals.. 22. We receive fixed payments from Medicare for our services based on the level of care provided to our patients. Consequently, our profitability largely depends upon our ability to manage the cost of providing these services. Medicare currently provides for an annual adjustment of the various payment rates, such as the base episode rate for our home nursing services, based upon the increase or decrease of the medical care expenditure, which may be less than actual inflation. This adjustment could be eliminated or reduced in any given year.  Also beginning on April 1, 2013 Medicare reimbursement was cut an additional 2% through sequestration as mandated by the Congressional Budget Act. Further, Medicare routinely reclassifies home health resource groups and long-term care diagnosis-related groups. As a result of those reclassifications, we could receive lower reimbursement rates depending on the case mix of the patients we service. If our cost of providing services increases by more than the annual Medicare price adjustment, or if these reclassifications result in lower reimbursement rates, our results of operations, net income and cash flows could be adversely impacted.. We are subject to extensive government regulation. Any changes in the laws and regulations governing our business, or the interpretation and enforcement of those laws or regulations, could require us to modify our operations and could negatively impact our operating results and cash flows.. As a provider of health care services, we are subject to extensive regulation on the federal, state and local levels, including with regard to:. • licensure and certificates of need and permits of approval;. • coding and billing for services;. • conduct of operations, including financial relationships among health care providers, Medicare fraud and abuse and physician self-referral;. • maintenance and protection of records, including HIPAA;. • environmental protection, health and safety;. • certification of additional agencies or facilities by the Medicare program; and. • payment for services.. The laws and regulations governing our operations, along with the terms of participation in various government programs, regulate how we do business, the services we offer and our interactions with patients and other providers. See Part I, Item 1. Government Regulations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information concerning applicable laws and regulations.  These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. Changes in existing laws, regulations, their interpretations or the enactment of new laws or regulations could increase our costs of doing business and cause our net income to decline. If we fail to comply with these applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate and our ability to participate in federal and state reimbursement programs.. On December 11, 2014, CMS proposed a star rating methodology for home health agencies to meet the PPACA's call for more transparent, public information on provider quality.  All Medicare-certified home health agencies would be eligible to receive a star rating (from one to five stars) based on a number of quality measures, such as timely initiation of care, drug education provided to patients, fall risk assessment, depression assessments, improvements in bed transferring, and bathing, among others.  The \"Quality of Patient Care Star Ratings\" were first published in July 2015, and are updated quarterly thereafter based upon new data that is published with the ratings on the \"Home Health Compare\" section of the medicare.gov website.  While we are pleased with the initial ratings received by our home health agencies and are striving to improve our results, it is not clear at this time what impact, if any, the new rating system will have on our home health business.. We face reviews, audits and investigations under our contracts with federal and state government agencies and private payors, and these audits could have adverse findings that may negatively impact our business.. We are subject to various routine and non-routine governmental reviews, audits and investigations. These audits include those conducted through the recovery audit contractor program (\"RAC\") and the zone program integrity contractor program (\"ZPIC\"), in which third party firms engaged by CMS conduct extensive reviews of claims data and non-medical and other records to identify potential improper payments under the Medicare Program. In recent years, federal and state civil and criminal enforcement agencies have heightened and coordinated their oversight efforts related to the health care industry, including with respect to referral practices, cost reporting, billing practices, joint ventures and other financial relationships among health care providers. Although we have invested substantial time and effort in implementing policies and procedures to comply with laws and regulations, we could be subject to liabilities arising from violations. A violation of the laws governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation of those laws, could result in the imposition of fines, civil or criminal penalties, the termination of our rights to participate in federal and state-sponsored programs or the suspension or revocation of our licenses to operate. If we become subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions are imposed upon us, we may suffer a substantial reduction in net income.. We are subject to federal and state laws that govern our employment practices.  Failure to comply with these laws, or changes to these laws that increase our employment-related expenses, could adversely impact our operations.. We are required to comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations relating to employment, including occupational safety and health requirements, wage and hour requirements, employment insurance, and equal employment opportunity laws.  These. 23. laws can vary significantly among states and can be highly technical.  Costs and expenses related to these requirements are a significant operating expense and may increase as a result of, among other things, changes in federal or state laws or regulations requiring employers to provide specified benefits to employees, increases in the minimum wage and local living wage ordinances, increases in the level of existing benefits, or the lengthening of periods for which unemployment benefits are available.  We may not be able to offset any increased costs and expenses.  Furthermore, any failure to comply with these laws, including even a seemingly minor infraction, can result in significant penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Additionally, a number of states require that direct care workers receive state-mandated minimum wage and/or overtime pay.  Opponents say that the new protections will make in-home care more expensive for government programs that pay for such services, and that these new rules and regulations could result in a reduction in covered services.  We will continue to evaluate the effect of these various new rules and regulations on our operations.. Current economic conditions and continued decline in spending by the Federal and state governments could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Worldwide economic conditions have significantly declined and will likely remain depressed for the foreseeable future. While our services are not typically sensitive to general declines in the federal and state economies, the erosion in the tax base caused by the general economic downturn has caused, and will likely continue to cause, restrictions on the federal and state governments' abilities to obtain financing and a decline in spending. As a result, we may face reimbursement rate cuts or reimbursement delays from Medicare and Medicaid and other governmental payors, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.. If any of our agencies or facilities fail to comply with the conditions of participation in the Medicare program, that agency or facility could be terminated from Medicare, which could adversely affect our net service revenue and net income.. Our agencies and facilities must comply with the extensive conditions of participation in the Medicare program. These conditions of participation vary depending on the type of agency or facility, but, in general, require our agencies and facilities to meet specified standards relating to personnel, patient rights, patient care, patient records, administrative reporting, and legal compliance. If an agency or facility fails to meet any of the Medicare conditions of participation, that agency or facility may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable state surveyor. If that agency or facility then fails to institute a plan of correction to correct the deficiency within the time period provided by the state surveyor, that agency or facility could be terminated from the Medicare program. We respond in the ordinary course to deficiency notices issued by state surveyors and none of our facilities or agencies have ever been terminated from the Medicare program for failure to comply with the conditions of participation. Any termination of one or more of our agencies or facilities from the Medicare program for failure to satisfy the Medicare conditions of participation could adversely affect our net service revenue and net income.. On October 6, 2014, CMS issued a proposed rule that would revise the Medicare and Medicaid conditions of participation for home health agencies.  The proposed rule would require home health agencies to develop, implement, and maintain an agency-wide, data-driven quality assessment and improvement program and a system of communication and integration to identify patient needs and coordinate care.  The proposed rule also aims to clarify and expand current patient rights requirements and contains several other clarifications and updates largely focused on creating a more patient-centered, data-driven, outcome-oriented process for patient care.  If the proposed rule is finalized, we expect to face additional costs associated with compliance with such changes.. Our revenue may be negatively impacted by a failure to appropriately document services, resulting in delays in reimbursement.. Reimbursement to us is conditioned upon providing the correct administrative and billing codes and properly documenting the services themselves, including the level of service provided, and the necessity for the services.  If incorrect or incomplete documentation is provided or inaccurate reimbursement codes are utilized, this could result in nonpayment for services rendered and could lead to allegations of billing fraud.  This could subsequently lead to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid.  In addition, third-party payors may disallow, in whole or in part, requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain amounts are not covered, services provided were not medically necessary, or supporting documentation was not adequate.  In addition, timing delays may cause working capital shortages.  Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in achieving our financial results and maintaining liquidity.  It is possible that documentation support, system problems, provider issues or industry trends may extend our collection period, which may materially adversely affect our working capital, and our working capital management procedures may not successfully mitigate this risk.. The inability of our long-term acute care hospitals to maintain their certification as long-term acute care hospitals could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. If our LTACHs fail to meet or maintain the standards for Medicare certification as LTACHs, such as for average minimum patient length-of-stay and restrictions on sources of referral (e.g. 25 Percent rule), they will receive reimbursement under the prospective payment system applicable to general acute care hospitals rather than the system applicable to long-term acute care hospitals. Payments at rates applicable to general acute care hospitals would likely result in our LTACHs receiving less Medicare reimbursement than they currently receive for their patient services. If any of our LTACHs were subject to payment as general acute care hospitals, our net service. 24. revenue and net income would decline.  The 25 Percent rule will not be applied to LTACHs for discharges occurring on or before September 30, 2018.. The implementation of new patient criteria for our LTACHs under the BBA 2013 will reduce the population of patients eligible for LTACH-PPS and change the basis upon which we are paid which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. The BBA 2013 creates new Medicare criteria and payment rules for our LTACHs. Under the new criteria, our LTACHs treating patients with at least a three-day prior stay in an acute care hospital intensive care unit and patients on prolonged mechanical ventilation admitted from an acute care hospital will continue to receive payment under LTACH-PPS rate. Other patients will continue to have access to LTACH care, but our LTACH will be paid at a \"site-neutral rate\" for these patients, based on the lesser of per diem Medicare rates paid for patients with the same diagnoses under IPPS or LTACH costs.. The effective date of the new patient criteria was October 1, 2015, followed by a two-year phase-in period tied to each LTACH's cost reporting period. During the phase-in period, payment for patients receiving the site-neutral rate will be based 50% on the current LTACH-PPS rate and 50% on the new site-neutral rate. For our two LTACHs that have a cost reporting period starting before July 1 of each year, the phase-in began on June 1, 2016.  For our six LTACHs that have a cost reporting period starting on or after July 1 of each year, the phase-in began on September 1, 2016.  As described in Item 1 above, the BBA 2018 extended the site neutral phase-in period for an additional two years, based upon a 4.6% reduction in site neutral payments over seven years.. We continue to analyze Medicare and internal data to estimate the number of our cases that will continue to be paid under the LTACH-PPS rate. At this time, we estimate that less than one-third of our current LTACH patients will be paid at the site-neutral rate under the new criteria once it is fully phased-in. The site-neutral payment rates will be based on the lesser of per diem Medicare rates paid for patients with the same diagnoses under IPPS or our LTACHs costs. There can be no assurance that these site-neutral payments will not be materially less than the payments currently provided under LTACH-PPS rates.. The additional patient criteria imposed by the BBA 2013 will reduce the population of patients eligible for LTACH-PPS rates and change the basis upon which our LTACHs are paid for other patients. In addition, the BBA 2013 will generate additional governmental regulations, including interpretations and enforcement actions surrounding those regulations. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. Our hospice operations are subject to two annual Medicare caps. If any of our hospice providers exceeds such caps, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Overall payments made by Medicare to each hospice provider number (generally corresponding to each of our hospice agencies) are subject to an inpatient cap amount and an overall payment cap amount, which are calculated and published by the Medicare fiscal intermediary on an annual basis covering the period from November 1 through October 31. If payments received under any of our hospice provider numbers exceeds either of these caps, we may be required to reimburse Medicare for payments received in excess of the caps, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If the structures or operations of our joint ventures are found to violate the law, it could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations.. Several of our joint ventures are with hospitals and physicians, which are governed by the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. These anti-kickback statutes prohibit the payment or receipt of anything of value in return for referrals of patients or services covered by governmental health care programs, such as Medicare. The OIG has published numerous safe harbors that exempt qualifying arrangements from enforcement under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. We have sought to satisfy as many safe harbor requirements as possible in structuring our joint ventures. For example, each of our equity joint ventures with hospitals and physicians is structured in accordance with the following principles:. • the investment interest offered is not based upon actual or expected referrals by the hospital or physician;. • our joint venture partners are not required to make or influence referrals to the joint venture;. • at the time the joint venture is formed, each hospital or physician joint venture partner is required to make an actual capital contribution to the joint venture equal to the fair market value of his or her investment interest and is at risk to lose his or her investment;. • neither we nor the joint venture entity lends funds to or guarantees a loan to the hospital or physician to acquire interests in the joint venture; and. • distributions to our joint venture partners are based solely on their equity interests and are not affected by referrals from the hospital or physician.. 25. Despite our efforts to meet the safe harbor requirements where possible, our joint ventures may not satisfy all elements of the safe harbor requirements.. If any of our joint ventures were found to be in violation of federal or state anti-kickback or physician referral laws, we could be required to restructure them or refuse to accept referrals from the physicians or hospitals with which we have entered into a joint venture. We also could be required to repay to Medicare amounts we have received pursuant to any prohibited referrals, and we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate and our ability to participate in federal and state health care programs. If any of our joint ventures were subject to any of these penalties, our business could be materially adversely affected. If the structure of any of our joint ventures were found to violate federal or state anti-kickback statutes or physician referral laws, we may be unable to implement our growth strategy, which could have an adverse impact on our future net income and consolidated results of operations.. The application of state certificate of need and permit of approval regulations and compliance with federal and state licensing requirements could substantially limit our ability to operate and grow our business.. Our ability to expand operations in a state will depend on our ability to obtain a state license to operate. States may have a limit on the number of licenses they issue. For example, Louisiana currently has a moratorium on the issuance of new home nursing agency licenses.  We cannot predict whether the moratorium in Louisiana will be extended.  In addition, we cannot predict whether any other states in which we operate, or may wish to operate in the future, may adopt a similar moratorium.. As of December 31, 2017, we operated in 12 states that require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as a certificate of need or a permit of approval, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. The failure to obtain any requested certificate of need, permit of approval or other license could impair our ability to operate or expand our business.. Risk Factors Related to Capital and Liquidity. The condition of the financial markets, including volatility and weakness in the equity, capital and credit markets, could limit the availability and terms of debt and equity financing sources to fund the capital and liquidity requirements of our business.. Financial markets may experience significant disruptions, which could impact liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive and, in certain cases, significantly reducing the availability of certain types of debt financing. We have not experienced any individual lender limitations to extend credit under our revolving credit facility. However, the obligations of each of the lending institutions in our revolving credit facility are separate and the availability of future borrowings under our revolving credit facility could be impacted by further volatility and disruptions in the financial credit markets or other events. Our inability to access our revolving credit facility or refinance the revolving credit facility would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. Based on our current plan of operations, including acquisitions (other than the Merger), we believe our existing cash balance, when combined with expected cash flows from operations and amounts available under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to fund our growth strategy and to meet our anticipated operating expenses, capital expenditures and debt service obligations for at least the next 12 months. If our future net service revenue or cash flow from operations is less than we currently anticipate, we may not have sufficient funds to implement our growth strategy. Further, we cannot readily predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition and internal development efforts and the associated capital commitments. If we do not have sufficient cash resources, our growth could be limited unless we are able to obtain additional equity or debt financing.. In addition, we must obtain the consent of certain of the lenders under our credit facility prior to the consummation of the Merger with Almost Family, as the Merger would constitute a default under our credit facility.  Almost Family's credit facility contains similar consent requirements and default provisions that would be triggered by the Merger.  As a result, we intend to amend or refinance our credit facility, potentially seek additional sources of financing, and terminate Almost Family's credit facility in connection with the closing of the Merger.  We intend to pay the outstanding borrowings and accrued and unpaid interest under Almost Family's credit facility and certain debt issuance costs and Merger-related fees and expenses from the proceeds of such amendment or refinancing.  Although we currently believe that we will be able to obtain any necessary amendment or refinancing of our credit facility at a reasonable cost, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in obtaining such amendment or refinancing on favorable terms, if at all, which could significantly increase our future interest expense and adversely impact our results of operations and the anticipated benefits from the Merger.. The agreement governing our revolving credit facility contains, and future debt agreements may contain, various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business.. The agreement and instruments governing our revolving credit facility, and the agreements and instruments governing future debt agreements may contain various restrictive covenants that, among other things, require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios that may restrict our ability to:. • incur more debt;. 26. • redeem or repurchase stock, pay dividends or make other distributions;. • make certain investments;. • create liens;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • make unapproved acquisitions;. • merge or consolidate;. • transfer or sell assets; and/or. • make fundamental changes in our corporate existence and principal business.. In addition, events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with and maintain such financial tests and ratios. Any failure by us to comply with or maintain all applicable financial tests and ratios and to comply with all applicable covenants could result in an event of default with respect to our revolving credit facility or any other future debt agreements. An event of default could lead to the acceleration of the maturity of any outstanding loans and the termination of the commitments to make further extensions of credit. Even if we are able to comply with all applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to operate our business at our sole discretion could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities.. Our net service revenue is concentrated in a small number of states, which makes us sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in those states.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our facilities in Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, and Arkansas accounted for approximately 55.0% of our net service revenue.  Accordingly, any changes in the current demographic, economic, competitive, or regulatory conditions in these states could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Medicaid changes in these states could also have a material effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect the local economies in which we operate or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. Our operations along coastal areas in the southern United States are particularly susceptible to hurricanes.  Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate.  Future hurricanes could affect our operations or the economies in those market areas and result in damage to certain of our facilities, the equipment located at such facilities or equipment rented to patients in those areas.  Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes.  Although we maintain insurance coverage, we cannot guarantee that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover any losses or that we will be able to maintain insurance at a reasonable cost in the future.  If our losses from business interruption or property damage exceed the amount for which we are insured, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.. We may be more vulnerable to the effects of a public health catastrophe than other businesses due to the nature of our patients.. The majority of our patients are older individuals and others with complex medical challenges, many of whom may be more vulnerable than the general public during a pandemic or in a public health catastrophe.  Our employees are also at greater risk of contracting contagious diseases due to their increased exposure to vulnerable patients.  For example, if a flu pandemic were to occur, we could suffer significant losses to our consumer population or a reduction in the availability of our employees and, at a high cost, be required to hire replacements for affected workers.  Accordingly, certain public health catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Delays in reimbursement may cause liquidity problems.. Our business is characterized by delays in reimbursement from the time we request payment for our services to the time we receive reimbursement or payment. A portion of our estimated reimbursement (60% for an initial episode of care and 50% for subsequent episodes of care) for each Medicare episode is billed at the commencement of the episode and we typically receive payment within approximately seven days. The remaining reimbursement is billed upon completion of the episode and is typically paid within 14 to 17 days from the billing date. If we have information system problems or issues arise with Medicare or other payors, we may encounter further delays in our payment cycle. For example, in the past we have experienced delays resulting from problems arising out of the implementation by Medicare of new or modified reimbursement methodologies or as a result of natural disasters, such as hurricanes. We have also experienced delays in reimbursement resulting from our implementation of new information systems related to our accounts receivable and billing functions. Any future timing delay may cause working capital shortages. As a result, working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our consolidated results of operations and liquidity. Our working capital management procedures may not successfully negate this risk. Significant delays in payment or reimbursement could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition.. 27. Risk Factors Related to Operations and our Growth Strategy. We could be required to record a material non-cash charge to income if our recorded goodwill or intangible assets are impaired.. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of the assets on our balance sheet and are assessed for impairment annually or whenever circumstances indicate potential impairment. The goodwill assessment includes comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to the carrying value of the assets assigned to the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit were to exceed our estimate of fair value of the reporting unit, we would be required to estimate the fair value of the assets and liabilities within the reporting unit to ascertain the fair value of goodwill. If we determine that the fair value is less than our book value, we could be required to record a non-cash impairment charge to our consolidated statements of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, debt covenants and ability to access capital.. We assess other intangible assets, such as trade names and licenses, individually, based on expected revenue and cash flows to be generated by those assets. Specific economic factors and conditions attributed to local agencies could cause these expected revenue and cash flows to decrease. If we determine that the fair value is less than the carrying value, we could be required to record material non-cash impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, debt covenants and ability to access capital.. Our allowance for contractual adjustments and doubtful accounts may not be sufficient to cover uncollectible amounts.. On an ongoing basis, we estimate the amount of Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance receivables that we will not be able to collect. This allows us to calculate the expected loss on our receivables for the period we are reporting. Our allowance for contractual adjustments and doubtful accounts may underestimate actual uncollectible receivables for various reasons, including:. • adverse changes in our estimates as a result of changes in payor mix and related collection rates;. • inability to collect funds due to missed filing deadlines or inability to prove that timely filings were made;. • adverse changes in the economy generally exceeding our expectations; or. • unanticipated changes in reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance companies.. If our allowance for contractual adjustments and doubtful accounts is insufficient to cover losses on our receivables, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Changes in the case mix of patients, as well as payor mix and payment methodologies, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. The sources and amounts of our patient revenue are determined by a number of factors, including the mix of patients and the rates of reimbursement among payors. Changes in the case mix of the patients, payment methodologies or payor mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid may significantly affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Shortages in qualified nurses and other health care professionals could increase our operating costs significantly or constrain our ability to grow.. We rely on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and other health care professionals. The availability of qualified nurses nationwide has declined in recent years and competition for these and other health care professionals has increased and, therefore, salary and benefit costs have risen accordingly. Our ability to attract and retain nurses and other health care professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide desirable assignments and competitive benefits and salaries. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified nurses or other health care professionals in the future. In addition, the cost of attracting and retaining these professionals and providing them with attractive benefit packages may be higher than anticipated which could cause our net income to decline. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain qualified professionals, the quality of services offered to our patients may decline or our ability to grow may be constrained.. If we are required to either repurchase or sell a substantial portion of the equity interests in our joint ventures, our capital resources and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted.. Upon the occurrence of fundamental changes to the laws and regulations applicable to our joint ventures, or if a substantial number of our joint venture partners were to exercise the buy/sell provisions contained in many of our joint venture agreements, we may be obligated to purchase or sell the equity interests held by us or our joint venture partners. In some instances, the purchase price under these buy/sell provisions is based on a multiple of the historical or future earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization of the equity joint venture at the time the buy/sell option is exercised. In other instances, the buy/sell purchase price will be negotiated by the partners but will be subject to a fair market valuation process. In the event the buy/sell provisions are exercised and we lack sufficient capital to purchase the interest of our joint venture partners, we may be obligated to sell our equity interest in these joint ventures. If we are forced to sell our equity interest, we will lose the benefit of those particular joint venture operations. If these buy/sell provisions are exercised and we choose to purchase the interest of our joint venture partners, we may be obligated to expend significant. 28. capital in order to complete such acquisitions. If either of these events occurs, our net service revenue and net income could decline or we may not have sufficient capital necessary to implement our growth strategy.. If we are unable to maintain relationships with existing referral sources or establish new referral sources, our growth and net income could be adversely affected.. Our success depends significantly on referrals from physicians, hospitals and other health care providers in the communities in which we deliver our services. Our referral sources are not obligated to refer business to us and may refer business to other health care providers. We believe many of our referral sources refer business to us as a result of the quality of patient care provided by our local employees in the communities in which our agencies and facilities are located. If we are unable to retain these employees, our referral sources may refer business to other health care providers. Our loss of, or failure to maintain, existing relationships or our failure to develop new relationships could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations and operate profitably.. We face competition, including from competitors with greater resources, which may make it difficult for us to compete effectively as a provider of post-acute health care services.. We compete with local and regional home nursing and hospice companies, hospitals and other businesses that provide post-acute health care services, some of which are large, established companies that have significantly greater resources than we do. Our primary competition comes from local operators in each of our markets. We expect our competitors to develop joint ventures with providers, referral sources and payors, which could result in increased competition. The introduction by our competitors of new and enhanced service offerings, in combination with industry consolidation and the development of competitive joint ventures, could cause a decline in net service revenue and loss of market acceptance of our services. Future increases in competition from existing competitors or new entrants may limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and competitive pressures may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may close additional underperforming agencies in the future.. We regularly review the performance of our various agencies. Our review considers the current financial performance, market penetration, forecasted market growth and current and future reimbursement payment forecasts.. We will continue to monitor the performance of our agencies on an ongoing basis, and closures may from time to time occur in the future. If we take any further action to close agencies, we will incur additional costs and expenses, which may require us to record significant charges in future periods. While any such closures would be made in connection with our constant efforts to improve our profitability, associated charges would have a negative impact on our revenue and possibly our operating results during the short-term.. Future acquisitions may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. Further, our acquisition and internal development activity may impose strains on our existing resources.. Our growth strategy involves the acquisition of home nursing agencies and hospice agencies throughout the United States. These acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired personnel and other corporate cultures into our business, the potential loss of key employees or patients of acquired agencies and the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired agencies. We may not be able to fully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our current business structure in an efficient and cost-effective manner. The failure to effectively integrate any of these businesses could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We generally structure our acquisitions as asset purchase transactions in which we expressly state that we are not assuming any pre-existing liabilities of the seller and obtain indemnification rights from the previous owners for acts or omissions arising prior to the date of such acquisitions. However, the allocation of liability arising from such acts or omissions between the parties could involve the expenditure of a significant amount of time, manpower and capital. Further, the former owners of the agencies and facilities we acquire may not have the financial resources necessary to satisfy our indemnification claims relating to pre-existing liabilities. If we were unsuccessful in a claim for indemnification from a seller, the liability imposed could materially adversely affect our operations.. In addition, as we continue to expand our markets, our growth could strain our resources, including management, information and accounting systems, regulatory compliance, logistics and other internal controls. Our resources may not keep pace with our anticipated growth. If we do not manage our expected growth effectively, our future prospects could be affected adversely.. We may face increased competition for attractive acquisition and joint venture candidates.. We intend to continue growing through the acquisition of additional home-based agencies and the formation of joint ventures with hospitals for the operation of home-based agencies. We face competition for acquisition and joint venture candidates, which may limit the number of acquisition and joint venture opportunities available to us or lead to the payment of higher prices for our acquisitions and joint ventures. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities in the future or that. 29. any such opportunities, if identified, will be consummated on favorable terms, if at all. Without successful acquisitions or joint ventures, our future growth rate could decline. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any future acquisitions or joint ventures, if consummated, will result in further growth.. Federal regulation may impair our ability to consummate acquisitions or open new agencies.. Changes in federal laws or regulations may materially adversely impact our ability to acquire home nursing agencies or open new start-up home nursing agencies. For example, CMS has adopted a regulation known as the \"36 Month Rule\" that is applicable to home health agency acquisitions. Subject to certain exceptions, the 36 Month Rule prohibits buyers of certain home health agencies  -  those that either enrolled in Medicare or underwent a change in ownership fewer than 36 months prior to the acquisitions  -  from assuming the Medicare billing privileges of the acquired agency. Instead, the acquired home health agencies must enroll as new providers with Medicare. As a result, the 36 Month Rule may further increase competition for acquisition targets that are not subject to the rule, and may cause significant Medicare billing delays for the purchases of home health agencies that are subject to the rule.. If we are subject to substantial malpractice or other similar claims, it could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. The services we offer have an inherent risk of professional liability and substantial damage awards. We, and the nurses and other health care professionals who provide services on our behalf, may be the subject of medical malpractice claims. These nurses and other health care professionals could be considered our agents and, as a result, we could be held liable for their medical negligence. We cannot predict the effect that any claims of this nature, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have on our business or reputation or on our ability to attract and retain patients and employees. We maintain malpractice liability insurance that provides primary coverage on a claims-made basis of $1.0 million per incident and $3.0 million in annual aggregate amounts. In addition, we maintain multiple layers of umbrella coverage in the aggregate amount of $40.0 million that provide excess coverage for professional malpractice and other liabilities. We are responsible for deductibles and amounts in excess of the limits of our coverage. Claims that could be made in the future in excess of the limits of such insurance, if successful, could materially adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, our insurance coverage may not continue to be available to us at commercially reasonable rates, in adequate amounts or on satisfactory terms.. Failure of, or problems with, our critical software or information systems could harm our business and operating results.. We depend upon reliable and secure information systems to provide valuable tools by which we manage our business, comply with legal requirements and provide services. In addition to our Service Value Point system, our business is also substantially dependent on non-proprietary software. We utilize third-party software information systems for billing and maintaining patient claim receivables. Our systems require constant maintenance and upgrades to preserve and enhance system capabilities and security. Problems with, or the failure of, our information systems or software could negatively impact our clinical performance and our management and reporting capabilities. Any significant problems with or failures of our information systems or software could materially and adversely affect our operations and reputation, result in significant costs to us, cause delays in our ability to bill Medicare or other payors for our services, or impair our ability to provide our services in the future. The costs incurred in correcting any errors or problems with our proprietary and non-proprietary software may be substantial and could adversely affect our net income.  Our agencies also depend upon our information systems for accounting, billing, collections, risk management, quality assurance, payroll, education tracking and operational performance.  If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, availability or accuracy of our information systems, our operations and financial performance, and ability to report timely and accurate information, could be adversely affected.. Operations that we acquire must be integrated into our various information systems in an efficient and effective manner. For certain aspects, we rely upon third party contractors to assist us with those activities. If we are unable to integrate and transition any acquired business into our information systems, due to our failures or any failure of our third party contractors, we could incur unanticipated expenses, suffer disruptions in service, experience regulatory issues and lose revenue from the operation of such business.. Our information systems are networked via public network infrastructure and standards based encryption tools that meet regulatory requirements for transmission of protected health information over such networks. We have installed privacy protection systems on our network and point-of-care devices to prevent unauthorized access to proprietary, sensitive and legally protected information. However, threats from computer viruses, instability of the public network on which our data transit relies, or other instances that might render those networks unstable or disabled would create operational difficulties for us, including difficulties effectively transmitting claims and maintaining efficient clinical oversight of our patients, as well as disrupting revenue reporting and billing and collections management, which could adversely affect our business or operations. If personal or protected information of our patients, employees or others with whom we do business is tampered with, stolen or otherwise improperly accessed, we may incur additional fines and penalties associated with the breach of security or take other action with respect to judicial or regulatory actions arising out of the incident, including under HIPAA or other judicial acts, as applicable.. Our information systems are also subject to damage or service interruption due to natural disasters, floods, fires, loss of power, loss of telecommunications connectivity, and other events that may be beyond our immediate control. While we maintain and test various. 30. disaster recovery plans and procedures, our failure to successfully implement and execute upon such plans and procedures, and restore the full operational capabilities of our  information systems and software in an effective and efficient manner, could have a material adverse effect on the functionality of our information systems and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and cause a possible significant disruption of our operations and services.. Our failure to negotiate favorable managed care contracts, or our loss of existing favorable managed care contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. One of our strategies is to diversify our payor sources by increasing the business we do with managed care companies, and we strive to secure favorable contracts with managed care payors. However, we may not be successful in these efforts. Additionally, there is a risk that any favorable managed care contracts that we can secure may be terminated on short notice, since managed care contracts typically permit the payor to terminate without cause, typically on 60 days notice.  Such provisions can provide payors with leverage to reduce volume or obtain favorable pricing.  Our failure to negotiate, secure and maintain favorable managed care contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risk Factors Related to our Ownership and Management. As a holding company, we have no material assets or operations of our own.. We are a holding company, whereby our material assets and operations are held by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to service our debt, if any, is dependent upon the earnings from the business conducted by our subsidiaries. The distributions of those earnings or advances or other distributions of funds by these subsidiaries to us are contingent upon the subsidiaries' earnings and are subject to various business considerations. In addition, distributions by subsidiaries could be subject to statutory restrictions, including state laws requiring that the subsidiary be solvent, or contractual restrictions. If our subsidiaries are unable to make sufficient distributions or advances to us, we may not have the cash resources necessary to service our debt.. The loss of certain executive management or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.. Our success depends upon the continued employment of our executive management team and key employees and our ability to retain and motivate these individuals. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, we may not be able to successfully manage our business, achieve our business goals or replace them with equally qualified personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates hold a substantial portion of our outstanding shares of common stock and could exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, regardless of the wishes of other stockholders.. Our executive officers and directors and individuals or entities affiliated with them, beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 10.5% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2017. The interests of these stockholders may differ from other stockholders' interests. If they were to act together, these affiliated stockholders would be able to significantly influence all matters that our stockholders vote upon, including the election of directors, business combinations, the amendment of our certificate of incorporation and other significant corporate actions.. Certain provisions of our charter, bylaws, and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company.. Delaware law and our governing documents contain provisions that may enable our Board of Directors to resist a change in control of us. These provisions include:. • staggered terms for our Board of Directors;. • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders;. • the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; and. • advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders.. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of us. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors or cause us to take other corporate actions.. We have implemented other anti-takeover provisions or provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect. These provisions and others that our Board of Directors may adopt hereafter, may discourage offers to acquire us and may permit our Board of Directors to choose not to entertain offers to purchase us, even if such offers include a substantial premium to the market price of our common stock. Therefore, our stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to profit from a sale of control.. 31. Our common stock is traded infrequently, which may cause volatility in our stock price, including a decline in value.. We have a relatively low volume of daily trades in our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (\"NASDAQ\"). For example, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on NASDAQ over the three-month trading period ending February 23, 2018 was approximately 223,874 shares per day. Because our common stock is traded infrequently, the price per share of our common stock can fluctuate more significantly from day-to-day than a widely held stock that is actively traded on a daily basis. For example, trading of a large volume of our common stock may have a significant impact on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, future issuances of our common stock, including the exercise of any options or the vesting of any restricted stock that we may grant to directors, executive officers and other employees in the future and the issuance of our common stock in connection with acquisitions, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and, consequently, our stockholders' ability to achieve a return on investment will depend solely on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We do not pay dividends on our shares of common stock and intend to retain all future earnings to finance the continued growth and development of our business and for general corporate purposes.  In addition, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.  Any future payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, credit facility limitations, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors.. If we identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, our business and our stock price could be adversely affected.. We are required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. Under Section 404, we are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and report our conclusion in our Annual Report. Our independent registered public accounting firm is also required to report its conclusion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could require us and our auditor to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. If material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our financial reporting, which could have an adverse effect on our business and price of our common stock.. Risk Factors Related to the Merger with Almost Family. While the Merger is pending, we will be subject to business uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and operations.. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees, joint venture partners, third party payors, customers, and other persons with whom we have a business relationship may have an adverse effect on our business, operations, and stock price. During the pendency of the Merger, our existing customers or partners could decide to no longer do business with us. In addition, certain of our projects may be delayed or ceased and business decisions could be deferred. Persons with whom we have a business relationship, such as joint venture partners and third party payors, could also decide to terminate, modify, or renegotiate their relationships with us or take other actions as a result of the Merger that could negatively affect our revenue, earnings, and cash flows. Employee retention may be challenging during the pendency of the Merger, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. If key employees depart, our business prior to the Merger, and the business of the combined company following the Merger, could be materially harmed. In addition, stockholders and market analysts could also have a negative perception of the Merger, which could cause a material reduction in our stock price and could also result in (i) our not achieving the requisite vote to approve the issuance of our shares in the Merger and/or (ii) Almost Family not achieving the requisite vote to adopt the Merger.. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact our stock prices and the future business and financial results.. Completion of the Merger is not assured. If the Merger is not completed, our ongoing business and financial results may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including the following:. • the price of our common stock may decline to the extent that current market prices reflect a market assumption that the Merger will be completed;. • having to pay significant costs relating to the Merger without receiving the benefits of the Merger, including, in certain circumstances, a termination fee of $30 million or an expense reimbursement of up to $5 million;. • negative reactions from customers, stockholders, and market analysts;. • the possible loss of employees necessary to operate our business;. • we will have been subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business, which may have prevented us from making certain acquisitions or dispositions or pursuing certain business opportunities while the Merger was pending, and. • the diversion of the focus of our management to the Merger instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us and our business.. 32. If the Merger is not completed, we cannot assure our stockholders that these risks will not materialize and will not materially adversely affect our business, financial results, and stock price.. The consummation of the Merger is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including stockholder and regulatory approvals, that are outside of our or Almost Family's control and that we and Almost Family may be unable to satisfy or obtain or which may delay the consummation of the Merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could reduce the anticipated benefits from the Merger or cause the parties to abandon the Merger.. Consummation of the Merger is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, some of which are beyond our and Almost Family's control, including, among others: (i) the adoption of the Merger Agreement by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of Almost Family's common stock, (ii) the approval of the issuance of shares of our common stock to be issued to the Almost Family stockholders in the Merger by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of our common stock present in person or represented by proxy at our special meeting, (iii) the expiration or termination of the required waiting periods under the HSR Act, which expiration occurred on February 21, 2018, (iv) the absence of any order or law prohibiting the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, (v) the effectiveness of the registration statement concerning our common stock to be issued to the Almost Family stockholders in the Merger, (vi) the receipt of certain tax opinions, and (vii) the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to either us or Almost Family (as defined in the Merger Agreement).  In addition, several lawsuits have been filed against Almost Family and us challenging the adequacy of public disclosures related to the Merger and adverse rulings in these lawsuits may delay or prevent the Merger from being completed or require us or Almost Family to incur significant costs to defend or settle these lawsuits.  Any delay in completing the Merger could cause the combined company not to realize, or to be delayed in realizing, some or all of the benefits that we expect it to achieve if the Merger is successfully completed within its expected time frame.. The Merger Agreement also requires that we and Almost Family use reasonable best efforts to obtain all necessary or advisable approvals from governmental authorities, including those from a number of the federal, state, and municipal authorities that regulate our business and the business of Almost Family, including in the state New York, which accounts for approximately 7% of Almost Family's annual revenues. There can be no assurances that these regulatory approvals will be obtained or what conditions may be imposed on the companies in order to obtain such approvals. While these regulatory approvals are not a condition to closing the Merger, the failure to obtain any of these regulatory approvals could impose additional material costs on, or materially limit the revenue of, the combined company following the Merger, including ceasing operations or divesting assets in certain jurisdictions, including in the state of New York.. The combined company may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Merger or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. The combined company may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating the two businesses.. The ability of the combined company to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on the combined company's ability to successfully integrate the two businesses. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. As a result, the combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations with the business practices and operations of Almost Family. The integration process may disrupt the business of the combined company and, if implemented ineffectively, would restrict the full realization of the anticipated benefits. The failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company and could adversely impact the business, financial condition, and results of operations of the combined company. In addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, loss of customers, and diversion of the attention of the combined company's management and employees. The challenges of combining the operations of the companies include, among others:. • difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from the combination;. • difficulties in the integration of operations and systems, including information technology systems;. • difficulties in establishing effective uniform controls, standards, systems, procedures, and accounting and other policies; business cultures and compensation structures between the two companies;. • difficulties in the acculturation of employees;. • difficulties managing the expanded operations of a larger and more complex company;. • challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers;. • challenges in attracting new joint venture partners and acquisition targets;. • challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel, including personnel that are considered key to the future success of the combined company; and. • challenges in keeping key business relationships in place.. Many of these factors will be outside of the control of the combined company, and any one of them could result in increased costs and liabilities, decreases in the amount of expected revenue and earnings, and diversion of management's time and energy, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and results of operations of the combined company. In addition, even if the operations of our business and the business of Almost Family are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the transaction may not be. 33. realized, including the synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities, or cash flows that are expected, and the combined company will also be subject to additional risks that could impact future earnings. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our business with the business of Almost Family. All of these factors could cause dilution of the earnings per share of the combined company, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Merger, negatively impact the price of the combined company's stock, impair the ability of the combined company to return capital to its stockholders, or have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and results of operations of the combined company.. The Merger may not be accretive and may cause dilution of the combined company's adjusted earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of the combined company's common stock.. We currently anticipate that the Merger will be accretive to stockholders of the combine company on an adjusted earnings per share basis in 2018. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates, which may materially change. The combined company could also encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the Merger. All of these factors could cause dilution of the combined company's adjusted earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Merger and cause a decrease in the market value of the combined company's common stock.. The combined company is expected to incur substantial expenses related to the Merger and our integration with Almost Family.. The combined company is expected to incur substantial expenses in connection with the Merger and our integration with Almost Family. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies, and systems that must be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, legal, sales, payroll, pricing, revenue management, research and development, marketing, and benefits. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that the combined company expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. These integration expenses likely will result in the combined company taking significant charges against earnings following the completion of the Merger, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present.. The future results of the combined company will suffer if the combined company does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the Merger.. Following the Merger, the size of the business of the combined company will increase significantly beyond the current size of either our business or Almost Family's business. The combined company's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for the management of the combined company, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that the combined company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, and other benefits currently anticipated from the Merger.. Furthermore, we have incurred and expect to incur significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the Merger. In addition, the Merger could result in additional costs and expenses that were not expected or anticipated, and such costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation prior to the Merger and of the combined company thereafter."
