[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in or incorporated by reference into our Form 10-K, as part of your evaluation of the Company. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Our Acquisitions May Not Perform as Anticipated. We have completed hundreds of acquisitions of self-storage facilities since our initial public offering of common stock in June 1995. One of our strategies is to continue to grow by acquiring additional self-storage facilities. Acquisitions entail risks that investments will fail to perform in accordance with our expectations. Our judgments with respect to the prices paid for acquired self-storage facilities and the costs of any improvements required to bring an acquired property up to our standards may prove to be inaccurate. Acquisitions also involve general investment risks associated with any new real estate investment.. We May Incur Problems with Our Real Estate Financing. Unsecured Credit Facility, Term Notes and Senior Notes. We have a line of credit and term note agreements with a syndicate of financial institutions and other lenders, along with senior debt of $1,050 million. This indebtedness is recourse to us and the required payments are not reduced if the economic performance of any of the properties declines. The facilities limit our ability to make distributions to our shareholders, except in limited circumstances.. Rising Interest Rates. Indebtedness that we incur under the unsecured credit facility and bank term notes bears interest at a variable rate. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could increase our interest expense, which would reduce our cash available for distribution and our ability to pay expected distributions to our shareholders. We manage our exposure to rising interest rates using interest rate swaps and other available mechanisms. If the amount of our indebtedness bearing interest at a variable rate increases, our unsecured credit facility may require us to enter into additional interest rate swaps.. Refinancing May Not Be Available. It may be necessary for us to refinance our indebtedness through additional debt financing or equity offerings. If we were unable to refinance this indebtedness on acceptable terms, we might be forced to dispose of some of our self-storage facilities upon disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us and might adversely affect the cash available for distribution. If prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates on any refinancings, our interest expense would increase, which would adversely affect our cash available for distribution and our ability to pay expected distributions to shareholders.. Covenants and Risk of Default. Our loan instruments require us to operate within certain covenants, including financial covenants with respect to leverage, fixed charge coverage, minimum net worth, limitations on additional indebtedness and dividend limitations. If we violate any of these covenants or otherwise default under these instruments, then our lenders could declare all indebtedness under these facilities to be immediately due and payable which would have a material adverse effect on our business and could require us to sell self-storage facilities under distressed conditions and seek replacement financing on substantially more expensive terms.. Reduction in or Loss of Credit Rating. Certain of our debt instruments require us to maintain an investment grade rating from at least one and in some cases two debt ratings agencies. Should we receive a reduction in our credit rating from the agencies, the interest rate on our line of credit would increase by up to 0.50% and the interest rate on $100 million of our bank term notes would increase by up to 0.65%. Should we fail to attain an investment grade rating from the agencies, the interest rates on our $100 million term note due 2021 and our $175 million term note due 2024 would each increase by 1.750%.. 10. Our Debt Levels May Increase. Our Board of Directors currently has a policy of limiting the amount of our debt at the time of incurrence to less than 50% of the sum of the market value of our issued and outstanding common stock and preferred stock plus the amount of our debt at the time that debt is incurred. However, our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we might incur. Accordingly, our Board of Directors could alter or eliminate the current policy limitation on borrowing without a vote of our shareholders. We could become highly leveraged if this policy were changed. However, our ability to incur debt is limited by covenants in our debt instruments.. We Are Subject to the Risks Posed by Fluctuating Demand and Significant Competition in the Self-Storage Industry. Our self-storage facilities are subject to all operating risks common to the self-storage industry. These risks include but are not limited to the following:. •  Decreases in demand for rental spaces in a particular locale;. •  Changes in supply of similar or competing self-storage facilities in an area;. •  Changes in market rental rates; and. •  Inability to collect rents from customers.. Our current strategy is to acquire interests only in self-storage facilities. Consequently, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in a single industry. Our self-storage facilities compete with other self-storage facilities in their geographic markets. Due to competition, the self-storage facilities could experience a decrease in occupancy levels and rental rates, which would decrease our cash available for distribution. We compete in operations and for acquisition opportunities with companies that have substantial financial resources. Competition may reduce the number of suitable acquisition opportunities offered to us and increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell. The self-storage industry has at times experienced overbuilding in response to perceived increases in demand. A recurrence of overbuilding might cause us to experience a decrease in occupancy levels, limit our ability to increase rents, and compel us to offer discounted rents.. Our Real Estate Investments Are Illiquid and Are Subject to Uninsurable Risks and Government Regulation. General Risks.  Our investments are subject to varying degrees of risk generally related to the ownership of real property. The underlying value of our real estate investments and our income and ability to make distributions to our shareholders are dependent upon our ability to operate the self-storage facilities in a manner sufficient to maintain or increase cash available for distribution. Income from our self-storage facilities may be adversely affected by the following factors:. •  Changes in national economic conditions;. •  Changes in general or local economic conditions and neighborhood characteristics;. •  Competition from other self-storage facilities;. •  Changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of financing;. •  The impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws;. •  The ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older facilities;. •  Changes in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses;. •  Adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies;. •  Uninsured losses resulting from casualties associated with civil unrest, acts of God, including natural disasters, and acts of war;. •  Adverse changes in zoning laws; and. •  Other factors that are beyond our control.. Illiquidity of Real Estate May Limit its Value.  Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to vary our portfolio of self-storage facilities in response to changes in economic and other conditions is limited. In addition, provisions of the Code may limit our ability to profit on the sale of self-storage facilities held for fewer than two years. We may be unable to dispose of a facility when we find disposition advantageous or necessary and the sale price of any disposition may not equal or exceed the amount of our investment.. 11. Uninsured and Underinsured Losses Could Reduce the Value of our Self Storage Facilities.  Some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, that we potentially face with respect to our self-storage facilities may be uninsurable or not insurable at an acceptable cost. Our management uses its discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to acquiring appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. These decisions may result in insurance coverage that, in the event of a substantial loss, would not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds received by us might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to a particular property.. Possible Liability Relating to Environmental Matters.  Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in that property. Those laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not cause or know of the presence of hazardous or toxic substances and even if the storage of those substances was in violation of a customer's lease. In addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure of the owner to address their presence on the property, may adversely affect the owner's ability to borrow using that real property as collateral. In connection with the ownership of the self-storage facilities, we may be potentially liable for any of those costs.. Americans with Disabilities Act.  The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, generally requires that buildings be made accessible to persons with disabilities. A determination that we are not in compliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. If we were required to make modifications to comply with the ADA, our results of operations and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected.. There Are Limitations on the Ability to Change Control of the Company. Limitation on Ownership and Transfer of Shares.  To maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code. To limit the possibility that we will fail to qualify as a REIT under this test, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (\"Articles of Incorporation\") include ownership limits and transfer restrictions on shares of our stock. Our Articles of Incorporation limit ownership of our issued and outstanding stock by any single shareholder to 9.8% of the aggregate value of our outstanding stock, except that the ownership by some of our shareholders is limited to 15%.. These ownership limits may:. •  Have the effect of precluding an acquisition of control of the Company by a third party without consent of our Board of Directors even if the change in control would be in the interest of shareholders; and. •  Limit the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for shares of our common stock they hold that might otherwise exist if an investor were attempting to assemble a block of common stock in excess of 9.8% or 15%, as the case may be, of the outstanding shares of our stock or to otherwise effect a change in control of the Company.. Our Board of Directors may waive the ownership limits if it is satisfied that ownership by those shareholders in excess of those limits will not jeopardize our status as a REIT under the Code or in the event it determines that it is no longer in our best interests to be a REIT. Waivers have been granted to the former holders of our Series C preferred stock, FMR Corporation, Cohen & Steers, Inc. and Invesco Advisers, Inc. A transfer of our common stock and/or preferred stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limits may not be effective under some circumstances.. Other Limitations.  Other limitations could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some, or a majority, of our outstanding common stock might receive a premium for their shares of our common stock that exceeds the then prevailing market price or that those holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interest. The issuance of shares of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company even if a change in control were in the shareholders' interest. In addition, the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, imposes restrictions and requires specific procedures with respect to the acquisition of stated levels of share ownership and business combinations, including combinations with interested shareholders. These provisions of the MGCL could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Life Storage even if a change in control were in the shareholders' interest. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the MGCL control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. However, this provision may be amended or eliminated at any time. In addition, under the Operating Partnership's agreement of limited partnership, in general, we may not merge, consolidate or engage in any combination with another person or sell all or substantially all of our assets unless that transaction includes the merger or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Operating Partnership, which requires the approval of the holders of 75% of the limited partnership interests thereof. If we were to own less than 75% of the limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership, this provision of the limited partnership agreement could have the effect of delaying or preventing us from engaging in some change of control transactions.. 12. Our Failure to Qualify as a REIT Would Have Adverse Consequences. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that will permit us to qualify as a REIT under the Code. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") that we qualify as a REIT, and the statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not binding on the IRS or any court. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. Continued qualification as a REIT depends upon our continuing ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our shareholders. The fact that we hold substantially all of our assets through our Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries and joint ventures further complicates the application of the REIT requirements for us. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status and, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs and the ongoing importance of factual determinations, we cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to qualify as a REIT. Furthermore, Congress and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts and the IRS might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a REIT.. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year and are unable to avail ourselves of certain savings provisions set forth in the Code, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax (including possibly increased state and local taxes) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be ineligible for qualification as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which our qualification was lost. As a result, distributions to the shareholders would be reduced for each of the years involved. Although we currently intend to continue to operate in a manner designed to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our Board of Directors to revoke our REIT election. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and are able to avail ourselves of one or more of the statutory savings provisions in order to maintain our REIT status, we would nevertheless be required to pay penalty taxes of $50,000 or more for each such failure.. We Will Pay Some Taxes Even if We Qualify as a REIT, Reducing Cash Available for Shareholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay some federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. For example, we will be subject to income tax to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income (including capital gains). Additionally, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which dividends paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. Moreover, if we have net income from \"prohibited transactions,\" that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. While we will undertake sales of assets if those assets become inconsistent with our long-term strategic or return objectives, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the IRS would not contend otherwise. The need to avoid prohibited transactions could cause us to forego or defer sales of properties that might otherwise be in our best interest to sell.. One of our subsidiaries has elected to be treated as a \"taxable REIT subsidiary\" of the Company for federal income tax purposes. A taxable REIT subsidiary is taxed as a regular corporation and is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us in excess of a certain amount, in addition to other limitations imposed on the deductibility of interest under the TCJA. In addition, if we receive or accrue certain amounts and the underlying economic arrangements between our taxable REIT subsidiary and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on those payments in excess of amounts deemed reasonable between unrelated parties.. Finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a REIT we are not subject to federal income tax on that income because not all states and localities follow the federal income tax treatment of REITs. To the extent that we are or any taxable REIT subsidiary is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders.. Complying with REIT Requirements May Limit Our Ability to Hedge Effectively and May Cause Us to Incur Tax Liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our assets and operations. Under these provisions, any income that we generate from transactions intended to hedge our interest rate risk will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests if the instrument hedges interest rate risk on liabilities used to carry or acquire real estate assets or manages the risk of certain currency fluctuations, and such instrument is properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations. Income from hedging transactions that do not meet these requirements will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of both the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous or implement those hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our taxable REIT subsidiary would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our taxable REIT subsidiary arising after December 31, 2017 will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the taxable REIT subsidiary.. 13. Complying with the REIT Requirements May Cause Us to Forgo and/or Liquidate Otherwise Attractive Investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts that we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our shares. To meet these tests, we may be required to take or forgo taking actions that we would otherwise consider advantageous. For instance, in order to satisfy the gross income or asset tests applicable to REITs under the Code, we may be required to forgo investments that we otherwise would make. Furthermore, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio otherwise attractive investments. In addition, we may be required to make distributions to shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. These actions could reduce our income and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our investment performance.. If the Operating Partnership Fails to Qualify as a Partnership for Federal Income Tax Purposes, We Could Fail to Qualify as a REIT and Suffer Other Adverse Consequences. We believe that the Operating Partnership is organized and operated in a manner so as to be treated as a partnership and not an association or a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation, for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, the Operating Partnership is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of the partners is allocated its share of the Operating Partnership's income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS will not challenge the Operating Partnership's status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the Operating Partnership as an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, would cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of the Operating Partnership to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of its cash available for distribution to its partners, including us.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act May Impact the Attractiveness of an Investment in our Stock in Ways Difficult to Anticipate. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\"), signed into law in late 2017, significantly changed the U.S. federal income tax law applicable, and is generally for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. The TCJA reduced corporate and non-corporate income tax rates and changed numerous other provisions of the Code that may affect the taxation of REITs and their shareholders. These changes generally appear favorable to REITs; however, certain changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws pursuant to the TCJA could have a material and adverse effect on us. Some of these changes could reduce the relative competitive advantage of companies operating as REITs as opposed to companies not operating as REITs, including:. •  the reduction in tax rates applicable to individuals and C corporations, which could reduce the relative attractiveness of the generally single-level of taxation on REIT distributions;. •  the immediate expensing of capital expenditures, which could likewise reduce the relative attractiveness of the REIT structure; and. •  the limit on the deductibility of interest expense, which could increase the distribution requirement of REITs.. Many changes applicable to individual taxpayers are temporary  -  applying to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026. The TCJA makes numerous other changes to the tax law that do not affect REITs directly, but these changes could impact our shareholders and, therefore, could indirectly affect us.. Furthermore, the TCJA was adopted in a short period of time without hearings. It is likely that Congress will have to review, and possibly modify, provisions of the TCJA in subsequent tax legislation. It is not possible to predict if or when Congress will address changes to the TCJA or when the Internal Revenue Service will issue administrative guidance on the changes made by the TCJA or how any such changes will impact us or an investment in our stock. It is possible that future changes to tax law or guidance promulgated thereunder could adversely impact us.. Shareholders are urged to consult with their tax advisors about the TCJA and any other regulatory or administrative developments and proposals with respect to taxes and their potential effect on investment in our stock.. U.S. Federal Income Tax Treatment of REITs and Investments in REITs May Change, Which May Result in the Loss of Our Tax Benefits of Operating as a REIT. Current U.S. federal income tax treatment of a REIT and an investment in a REIT may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, and we cannot predict when such action may occur. We cannot predict how changes in U.S. federal income tax law will affect us or our investors nor can we predict the long-term impact of tax reforms on REITs.. We May Change the Dividend Policy for Our Common Stock in the Future. In 2017, our Board of Directors authorized and we declared quarterly common stock dividends of $0.95 per share in January, and $1.00 per share for April, July and October, for a total 2017 dividend per share annual rate of $3.95 per share. In addition, our Board of Directors authorized and we declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $1.00 per share in January 2018. We can provide no assurance that our Board of Directors will not reduce or eliminate entirely dividend distributions on our common stock in the future.. 14. Our Board of Directors will continue to evaluate our distribution policy on a quarterly basis as they monitor the capital markets and the impact of the economy on our operations. The decisions to authorize and pay dividends on our common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors given conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, debt maturities, the availability of capital, applicable REIT and legal restrictions and the general overall economic conditions and other factors. Any change in our dividend policy could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Market Interest Rates May Influence the Price of Our Common Stock. One of the factors that may influence the price of our common stock in public trading markets or in private transactions is the annual yield on our common stock as compared to yields on other financial instruments. An increase in market interest rates will result in higher yields on other financial instruments, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Regional Concentration of Our Business May Subject Us to Economic Downturns in the States of Texas and Florida. As of December 31, 2017, 254 of our 706 self-storage facilities are located in the states of Texas and Florida. For the year ended December 31, 2017, these facilities accounted for approximately 36% of store revenues. This concentration of business in Texas and Florida exposes us to potential losses resulting from a downturn in the economies of those states. If economic conditions in those states deteriorate, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. When We Acquire Properties in New Markets, We Will Be Subject to Increased Operational Risks. We may acquire self-storage properties in markets where we have little or no operational experience. When we enter into new markets, we will be subject to increased risks resulting from our lack of experience and infrastructure in these markets and may need to incur additional costs, both expected and unexpected, to develop our operating capabilities in these markets. These risks could materially and adversely affect us, including our growth prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in Taxation of Corporate Dividends May Adversely Affect the Value of Our Common Stock. The maximum marginal rate of tax payable by domestic noncorporate taxpayers on dividends received from a regular \"C\" corporation under current federal law generally is 20%, as opposed to higher ordinary income rates. The reduced tax rate, however, does not apply to distributions paid to domestic noncorporate taxpayers by a REIT on its stock, except for certain limited amounts. The earnings of a REIT that are distributed to its stockholders generally remain subject to less federal income taxation than earnings of a non-REIT \"C\" corporation that are distributed to its stockholders net of corporate-level income tax. However, the lower rate of taxation to dividends paid by regular \"C\" corporations could cause domestic noncorporate investors to view the stock of regular \"C\" corporations as more attractive relative to the stock of a REIT, because the dividends from regular \"C\" corporations continue to be taxed at a lower rate while distributions from REITs (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends) are generally taxed at the same rate as other ordinary income for domestic noncorporate taxpayers.. We are heavily dependent on computer systems, telecommunications and the Internet to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Security breaches or a failure of such networks, systems or technology could adversely impact our business and customer relationships.. We are heavily dependent upon automated information technology and Internet commerce, with many of our new customers coming from the Internet or the telephone, and the nature of our business involves the receipt and retention of personal information about them. We centrally manage significant components of our operations with our computer systems, including our financial information, and we also rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions and provide other systems services. These systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer worms, viruses and other destructive or disruptive security breaches and catastrophic events.. As a result, our operations could be severely impacted by a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other circumstance that resulted in a significant outage of our systems or those of our third-party providers, despite our use of back up and redundancy measures. Further, viruses and other related risks could negatively impact our information technology processes. We could also be subject to a \"cyber-attack\" or other data security breach which would penetrate our network security, resulting in misappropriation of our confidential information, including customer personal information. System disruptions and shutdowns could also result in additional costs to repair or replace such networks or information systems and possible legal liability, including government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to move out of rented storage spaces. Such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations."
