[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. There are several factors, some beyond our control, that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Some of these factors are described below. Other factors, such as market, operational, liquidity, interest rate and other risks, are described elsewhere in this report (see, for example, Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Any factor described in this report could by itself, or together with one or more factors, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. There may be factors not described in this report that could also cause results to differ from our expectations.. Our revenues will decline if the federal government reduces payments made by the Medicare program to healthcare providers or its funding of the Medicaid program or if states reduce the coverage and/or funding of their Medicaid programs.. <U+FEFF>. In 2017, we derived 53.8% of our revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, collectively. Numerous factors could materially decrease, or delay timing of, Medicare and Medicaid payments to our facilities.  These factors include reduction in payments for services, adverse determinations concerning patient and provider eligibility, the method of calculating reimbursements and requirements for utilization review.  Furthermore, the Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Pathway Act and PAMA, the Tax Relief Act and the ATRA provide for material scheduled reductions in the growth of Medicare and Medicaid program spending, including reductions in market basket updates and DSH funding.. <U+FEFF>. In recent years, we have benefited from the expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act.  However, a number of states have adopted or are considering legislation designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures, including enrolling Medicaid recipients in managed care programs, and imposing additional taxes on hospitals to help finance such states' Medicaid systems.  In addition, CMS has recently approved demonstration waivers for the Kentucky and Indiana Medicaid programs that, among other things, impose work or community engagement and income based premiums on certain adult Medicaid beneficiaries and at least eight other states, including some in which the Company has facilities, have similar waiver requests pending before CMS.  Also, as part of the movement to repeal, replace or modify the Affordable Care Act and as a means to reduce the federal budget deficit, there are renewed congressional efforts to move Medicaid from an open-ended program with coverage and benefits set by the federal government to one in which states receive a fixed amount of federal funds, either through block grants or per capita caps, and have more flexibility to determine benefits, eligibility or provider payments. If those changes are implemented, we cannot predict whether the amount of fixed federal funding to the states will be based on current payment amounts, or if it will be based on lower payment amounts, which would negatively impact those states that expanded their Medicaid programs in response to the Affordable Care Act.  Such efforts to reduce federal funding of the Medicaid program, as well as those that would reduce the amount of federal Medicaid matching funding available to states by curtailing the use of provider taxes, could have a negative impact on state Medicaid budgets resulting in less coverage for eligible individuals.. <U+FEFF>. We expect that efforts to impose greater discounts and more stringent cost controls and beneficiary requirements by government payers will continue, thereby reducing the payments we receive for our services and possibly reducing the number of individuals eligible for such programs.  If reimbursement from Medicare and/or Medicaid is reduced, or if the scope of services covered by Medicare and Medicaid is limited, there could be a material, adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. Changes in the payer mix of patients, reimbursement methodologies, consolidation among commercial insurance companies and shifts to insurance plans with narrow networks, high deductibles or high co-payments could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The amounts we receive for services provided to patients are determined by a number of factors, including the payer mix of our patients and the reimbursement methodologies and rates utilized by our patients.  In recent years, we have seen shifts of patients from commercial and private insurance to Medicare and Medicaid programs and from \"traditional\" fee-for-service Medicare and Medicaid programs to \"managed\" Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Reimbursement rates are generally lower for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries than they are for patients whose treatment are covered by commercial and private insurance and for managed Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries than they are for traditional Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. However, we also experience payer mix pressures as aging populations in our non-urban communities shift from commercial insurance programs to Medicare or managed Medicare programs.  Our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected by these shifts.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, payments from HMOs, PPOs, insurance companies, employers and other private payers are the result of negotiated rates.  The healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among commercial insurance companies, resulting in fewer but larger insurance companies that have significant bargaining power, given their market share.  As a result, payers increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk related to paying for care provided.  This includes moving away from a percent of charge payment structure to a fixed payment, which typically reduces our reimbursement rate and limits our ability to raise prices going forward. In addition, other healthcare providers, including some with greater financial resources, greater geographic coverage or a wider range of services, may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care plans to contract with us.. 29. TABLE OF CONTENTS. <U+FEFF>. Additionally, commercial insurance plans and plans provided through the Exchanges are increasingly using narrow and tiered networks that limit beneficiary provider choices and impose increased financial liability on beneficiaries who use certain tiers of providers.  These payers may also restrict or exclude our facilities and employed physicians from participation in their networks.  The increased utilization of narrow and tiered networks has increased the bargaining power of commercial insurance companies and the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer.. <U+FEFF>. There are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in insurance plans with high deductibles or high co-payments, including those purchased on the Exchanges, which increase the amount due from the patient and may result in reimbursement for a lower portion of the total payment amount relative to traditional employer-sponsored health insurance plans for the healthcare services provided by our facilities and employed physicians.  Patients enrolled in higher deductible and co-payment plans tend to defer elective and non-emergency procedures or default on their portion of the payment.  We may be adversely affected by the growth in patient responsibility accounts because of plan structures, including HSAs, which shift greater responsibility for care to individuals through greater exclusions and higher co-deductible and co-payment amounts.  If we experience shifts in our patient volumes to these types of plan structures, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. We may encounter difficulty operating, integrating and improving financial performance at acquired facilities. If we acquire facilities with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations.. <U+FEFF>. We may be unable to timely and effectively integrate facilities that we acquire with our ongoing operations and to achieve the anticipated financial results and synergies from such acquisitions, individually or in the aggregate. Many of the facilities we have acquired had, or future acquisitions may have, significantly lower operating margins than we do and/or operating losses prior to the time we acquired or will acquire them. It may take longer than anticipated to improve the operating margins or effectively integrate the operations of our acquired facilities, and we may not be able to make such improvements or integrate effectively at the levels we expect, which could adversely impact our financial results.  Additionally, we may experience delays in reimbursement from governmental and third-party payers as a result of the change of ownership of our acquired facilities.. <U+FEFF>. In addition to improving operating performance, we must integrate complex information, compliance, accounting and operational procedures and systems and internal controls over financial reporting of acquired facilities into our existing systems and internal controls. While we devote a significant amount of employee and management resources on these integrations, we also rely heavily on third parties for systems integration. Our efforts to integrate new facilities, including causing those third parties to convert our newly acquired facilities' systems, may fail or be significantly delayed. Failure to timely and effectively integrate or convert any of these systems could cause business interruption, affect physician and staff morale and our ability to accurately manage accounting, clinical, compliance and operational functions.. <U+FEFF>. We typically retain and rely on existing local management teams at newly acquired facilities to implement changes to operating procedures and systems.  Integrating local management teams can involve cultural and systems challenges that may demand a disproportionate share of our resources and senior management's attention, and we may experience turnover of physicians and other key personnel.  As our acquisitions have become, and may continue to become larger, in communities with competing facilities, the issues surrounding integration become more complex, expensive and time-consuming and may have a greater impact on our financial performance when we experience delays or difficulties.. <U+FEFF>. Businesses we have acquired, or businesses we acquire in the future, may have known and unknown or contingent liabilities for past activities, including liabilities for failure to comply with laws and regulations, retroactive payment adjustments or recoupments from payer audits, medical and general professional malpractice liabilities, unfunded pension liabilities, worker's compensation or other employee-related liabilities, previous tax liabilities and unacceptable business or accounting practices. Although we endeavor to obtain contractual indemnification from sellers covering these matters, sellers may be unwilling to provide such indemnification and any indemnification obtained from sellers may be insufficient to cover material claims or liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. In addition, the actions we take to address compliance or regulatory risks within acquired facilities may affect our revenue or results of operations.. 30. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Recent executive and legislative actions to amend or impede the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and ongoing efforts to repeal, replace or further modify the Affordable Care Act may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Affordable Care Act dramatically altered the U.S. healthcare system, and we have expended substantial cost and effort to prepare for and comply with the Affordable Care Act. Since its adoption into law in 2010, the Affordable Care Act has been challenged before the U.S. Supreme Court, and several bills have been and continue to be introduced in Congress to delay, defund, or repeal implementation of or amend significant provisions of the Affordable Care Act. In addition, there continues to be ongoing litigation over the interpretation and implementation of certain provisions of the law.  The net effect of the Affordable Care Act, as currently in effect, on our business is subject to a number of variables, including the law's complexity, lack of complete implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, and the sporadic implementation of the numerous programs designed to improve access to and the quality of healthcare services.  Additional variables of the Affordable Care Act impacting our business will be how states, providers, insurance companies, employers, and other market participants respond during this period of uncertainty surrounding the future of the Affordable Care Act.. <U+FEFF>. On January 20, 2017, President Trump issued an executive order that, among other things, stated that it was the intent of his administration to repeal the Affordable Care Act and, pending that repeal, instructed the executive branch of the federal government to defer or delay the implementation of any provision or requirement of the Affordable Care Act that would impose a fiscal burden on any state or a cost, fee, tax or penalty on any individual, family, health care provider, or health insurer. Additionally, on October 12, 2017, President Trump issued another executive order requiring the Secretaries of the Departments of Health and Human Services, Labor and the Treasury to consider proposing regulations or revising existing guidance to allow more employers to form association health plans that would be allowed to provide coverage across state lines, increase the availability of short-term, limited duration health insurance plans, which are generally not subject to the requirements of the Affordable Care Act, and increase the availability and permitted use of health reimbursement arrangements. On October 13, 2017, the DOJ announced that HHS was immediately stopping its cost sharing reduction payments to insurance companies based on the determination that those payments had not been appropriated by Congress. Furthermore, on December 22, 2017, President Trump signed tax reform legislation into law that, in addition to overhauling the federal tax system, also, effective as of January 1, 2019, repeals the penalties associated with the individual mandate.. <U+FEFF>. We cannot predict the impact that the President's executive order will have on the implementation and enforcement of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act or the current or pending regulations adopted to implement the law. In addition, we cannot predict the impact that the repeal of the penalties associated with the individual mandate and the cessation of cost sharing reduction payments to insurers will have on the availability and cost of health insurance and the overall number of uninsureds. We also cannot predict whether the Affordable Care Act will be repealed, replaced, or modified, and, if the Affordable Care Act is repealed, replaced or modified, what the replacement plan or modifications would be, when the replacement plan or modifications would become effective, or whether any of the existing provisions of the Affordable Care Act would remain in place.. <U+FEFF>. Changes to Medicaid supplemental payment programs may materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Medicaid supplemental payments (\"MSPs\") are payments made to providers separate from and in addition to those made at a state's standard Medicaid payment rate.  The two most prevalent forms of MSPs are DSH and Upper Payment Limit (\"UPL\") payments.  Medicaid DSH payments are federally required to be made by the states to hospitals that serve significant numbers of Medicaid and uninsured patients in recognition of the added costs incurred by hospitals in treating these patients.  The total amount of Medicaid DSH payments a state may make and the total amount any one hospital may receive are both capped by federal law.  Unlike Medicaid DSH payments, UPL payments are not required to be made by states under federal law.  Rather, federal regulations establish an upper payment limit above which states may not receive federal matching dollars. UPL programs have expanded in recent years and related MSPs to our hospitals have similarly increased as states use UPL programs as a way to avoid or mitigate reimbursement cuts to providers; however, we anticipate that there will be a reduction in such payments in 2018.. <U+FEFF>. Pursuant to the Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Pathway Act, PAMA, MACRA and the 2018 Act, funding for Medicaid DSH programs is to be significantly reduced beginning in FFY 2020.  Because many of the states in which we operate have not expanded Medicaid programs as intended under the Affordable Care Act, the reduction in Medicaid DSH payments may take place without a coupled increase in the Medicaid eligible population, thus increasing the net amount of uncompensated care we provide.. 31. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Additionally, some states that provide MSPs are reviewing these programs or have filed waiver requests with CMS to replace these programs, and CMS has performed and continues to perform compliance reviews of some states' programs, which could result in MSPs being reduced or eliminated.  We cannot predict whether MSP programs will continue (and, if continued, whether we will qualify for such programs) or guarantee that revenues recognized from these programs will not decrease.  Furthermore, we cannot predict how these programs will be impacted by potential fundamental changes that have been proposed to the federal government's funding of the Medicaid program.. We are subject to increasingly stringent governmental regulations, and we may face allegations that we have failed to comply with such regulations, which could result in sanctions and even greater scrutiny that reduce our revenues and profitability.. All participants in the healthcare industry are required to comply with numerous overlapping laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. These laws and regulations require that hospitals meet various requirements, including those relating to relationships with physicians and other referral sources, the adequacy and quality of medical care, inpatient admission criteria, privacy and security of health information, standards for equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, billing and cost reports, payment for services and supplies, maintenance of adequate records, compliance with building codes and environmental protection, among other matters.    Many of the laws and regulations applicable to the healthcare industry are complex and may be violated inadvertently, and there are numerous enforcement authorities, including CMS, OIG, the DOJ, state attorneys general, and contracted auditors, as well as private plaintiffs.. There are also heightened coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts by both federal and state government agencies relating to the healthcare industry, including the hospital segment. Recent enforcement actions have focused on financial arrangements between hospitals and physicians, billing for services without adequately documenting the medical necessity for such services and billing for services outside the coverage guidelines for such services. Hospitals continue to be one of the primary focal areas of the OIG and other governmental fraud and abuse programs, as described in the annual OIG Work Plan.  Certain of our facilities have received inquiries and subpoenas from various governmental agencies regarding these matters, and we are also subject to various claims and lawsuits relating to these and other matters. For a further discussion of these inquiries, proceedings and claims, see \"Legal Proceedings\" in Item 3 of this Report.. <U+FEFF>. The laws and regulations with which we must comply are constantly changing. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our business practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses.  Although we intend and will endeavor to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations, many of these laws and regulations are broadly worded and may be interpreted or applied in ways that cannot be predicted. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our arrangements or business practices will be free from government scrutiny or be found to be in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate our hospitals or loss of our ability to participate in the Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental programs.. Finally, we are subject to various federal, state and local statutes and ordinances regulating the discharge of materials into the environment. For example, our healthcare operations generate medical waste, such as pharmaceuticals, biological materials and disposable medical instruments that must be disposed of in compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations. Environmental regulations also may apply when we build new facilities or renovate existing hospitals, particularly older facilities.  If we fail to comply with environmental regulations we may be liable for substantial investigation and clean-up costs or we may be subject to lawsuits by governmental authorities or private plaintiffs.. We may be subjected to actions brought by the government under anti-fraud and abuse provisions or by individuals on the government's behalf under the False Claims Act's \"qui tam\" or \"whistleblower\" provisions.. The federal False Claims Act prohibits providers from, among other things, knowingly submitting false claims for payment to the federal government.  The \"qui tam\" or \"whistleblower\" provisions of the False Claims Act allow private individuals to bring actions under the False Claims Act on behalf of the government.  These private parties are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government, and, as a result, the number of \"whistleblower\" lawsuits that have been filed against providers has increased significantly in recent years.  We are required to provide information to our employees and certain contractors about state and federal false claims laws and whistleblower provisions and protections.  Defendants found to be liable under the federal False Claims Act may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties ranging between $11,181 and $22,363 for each separate false claim, subject to annual inflation increases as set forth in the 2015 Act.  There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act, including reckless or intentional acts or omissions. In addition, the Affordable Care Act created False Claims Act liability for the knowing failure to report and return an overpayment within 60 days of the identification of the overpayment or the date by which a corresponding cost report is due, whichever is later, and a number of states have adopted their own false claims and whistleblower provisions whereby a private party may file a civil lawsuit in state court.  We cannot assure you that our arrangements or business practices will be free from government scrutiny or be found to be in compliance with applicable fraud and abuse laws.. 32. TABLE OF CONTENTS. We may be subject to liabilities because of malpractice and related legal claims brought against our facilities or healthcare providers associated with, or employed by, our facilities or affiliated entities. If we become subject to these claims, we could be required to pay significant damages, which may not be covered by insurance.. We may be subject to medical malpractice lawsuits and other legal actions arising out of the operations of our owned and leased facilities and the activities of our employed or affiliated physicians.  As a matter of policy, we typically notify patients of any potential harms they may have suffered at our facilities, regardless of whether such notifications are required by law and notwithstanding our uncertainty as to the severity of such harms or whether they even took place.  This may lead to class actions or other multi-plaintiff lawsuits or whistleblower reports.  These actions may involve large claims and significant defense costs and, if we or our facilities are found liable, any judgments against us may be material.  Furthermore, some states in which we operate do not impose caps on malpractice damages and, even in the states that have imposed caps on such damages, litigants may seek recoveries under alternative theories of liability that might not be subject to such caps.  In an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement whether or not we believe we are liable. Amounts we pay to settle any of these matters also may be material.. Although we maintain professional and general liability insurance with unrelated commercial insurance carriers, each individual plaintiff's claim is generally subject to the SIR, which for some periods has been as high as $10.0 million. Any successful claim against us that is within our SIR amounts could have an adverse effect on our results of results of operations or liquidity. Some of these claims could exceed the scope of the excess coverage in effect, or coverage of particular claims could be denied, and any amounts not covered by insurance could be material.. Insurance coverage in the future may not continue to be available at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of insurance with acceptable SIR level amounts. One or more of our insurance carriers may become insolvent and unable to fulfill its obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us when that obligation becomes due. In addition, physicians using our facilities may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms, which could result in these physicians not being able to meet the minimum insurance requirements in the applicable medical staff bylaws or necessitate a reduction in the level of insurance required to be carried under such bylaws.. As a result of reviews of claims to Medicare and Medicaid for our services, we may experience delayed payments or incur additional costs and may be required to repay amounts already paid to us.. We are subject to regular post-payment inquiries, investigations and audits of the claims we submit to Medicare for payment for our services. These post-payment reviews may increase as a result of government cost-containment initiatives, including enhanced medical necessity reviews for Medicare patients admitted as inpatients to general acute care hospitals for certain procedures (e.g., cardiovascular procedures) claims reviews through the TPE program, and audits of Medicare claims under the RAC programs.  RACs utilize a post-payment targeted review process employing data analysis techniques in order to identify those Medicare claims most likely to contain overpayments, such as incorrectly coded services, incorrect payment amounts, non-covered services and duplicate payments.  The claims review strategies used by the RACs generally include a review of high dollar claims, including inpatient hospital claims.  As a result, a large majority of the total amounts recovered by RACs has come from hospitals.. The Affordable Care Act expanded the RAC program's scope to include managed Medicare and Medicaid claims, and all states are now required to establish programs to contract with RACs. In addition, CMS employs Unified Program Integrity Contractors (\"UPICs\"), which integrate the functions of the former Zone Program Integrity Contractors, Program Safeguard Contractors, and Medicaid Integrity Contractors (\"MICs\"), to perform post-payment audits of Medicare and Medicaid claims and identify overpayments. In addition to RACs and UPICs, the state Medicaid agencies and other contractors have also increased their review activities.  Third party audits or investigations of Medicare or Medicaid claims could result in increases or decreases in operating revenues to be recognized in periods subsequent to when the related services were performed, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 33. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues.. <U+FEFF>. Over the last several years, payers have instituted policies and procedures to substantially reduce or limit the use of inpatient services.  Controls imposed by Medicare, Medicaid, and commercial third-party payers designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as \"utilization review,\" have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities.  Federal law contains numerous provisions designed to ensure that services rendered by facilities to Medicare and Medicaid patients meet professionally recognized standards and are medically necessary and that claims for reimbursement are properly filed. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients.  Additionally, in some states in which we operate, commercial third-party payers have instituted policies that limit or deny patient coverage for certain services provided at hospitals, such as imaging and emergency department care, that the payer retrospectively determines could have been provided in an alternative setting, such as at an outpatient imaging center or urgent care center. As a result, payment for such procedures shifts from the commercial payer back to the patient.  Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees or an increase in self pay, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to risks associated with outsourcing functions to third parties.. To improve operating margins, productivity and efficiency, we outsource selected nonclinical business functions to third parties. We take steps to monitor and regulate the performance of independent third parties to whom the Company delegates selected functions, including revenue cycle management, patient access, billing, cash collections, payment compliance and support services, project implementation, supply chain management and payroll services.. Arrangements with third party service providers may make our operations vulnerable if vendors fail to satisfy their obligations to us as a result of their performance, changes in their own operations, financial condition, or other matters outside of our control.  We may also face legal, financial or reputational harm for the actions or omissions of such providers, and we may not have effective recourse against the providers for those harms. Effective management, development and implementation of our outsourcing strategies are important to our business and strategy. If there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes or our third party providers do not perform as anticipated, we may not fully realize on a timely basis the anticipated economic and other benefits of the outsourcing projects or other relationships we enter into with key vendors, which could result in substantial costs, divert management's attention from other strategic activities, negatively affect employee morale or create other operational or financial problems for us. Terminating, transitioning or renegotiating arrangements with key vendors could result in additional costs and a risk of operational delays, potential errors and possible control issues as a result of the termination or during the transition or renegotiation phase.. <U+FEFF>. We conduct a significant portion of our operations through joint ventures, which may expose us to risks and uncertainties.. <U+FEFF>. For financial or strategic reasons, we conduct much of our business through joint ventures.  As a general matter, our joint venture partners could have investment and operational goals that are not consistent with our company-wide objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for future growth and development opportunities, and we could reach an impasse on certain decisions, which may hinder our ability to pursue preferred strategies for growth and development, could require significant resources to resolve and could have an adverse effect on our operations and revenue growth.  In addition, our joint venture relationships with not-for-profit partners and the agreements that govern these relationships are structured based on current provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (and the Treasury Regulations thereunder), published rulings by the Internal Revenue Service, as well as case law relevant to joint ventures between for-profit and not-for-profit entities.  Material changes in these legal authorities could adversely affect our relationships with not-for-profit partners and related joint venture arrangements.. By far the largest of our joint ventures is Duke LifePoint Healthcare, which is owned by the Company and a wholly-controlled affiliate of Duke, and which currently operates 14 hospital campuses in four states.  In recent years, many of our large acquisitions have been conducted through Duke LifePoint Healthcare.  While we own a substantial majority of the equity in Duke LifePoint Healthcare, the long term success of Duke LifePoint Healthcare is dependent on ongoing collaboration and the alignment of our interests with those of Duke. In the event of a material disagreement with Duke or the breach of our joint venture agreement, Duke LifePoint Healthcare may be subject to dissolution, unwinding or purchase of either party's interest, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.  Even if Duke LifePoint Healthcare is not dissolved or unwound, our inability to involve Duke LifePoint Healthcare in our acquisitions and future operations could make it more difficult to source new targets or win competitive bidding processes, and our revenue or earnings growth may be hindered.. <U+FEFF>. 34. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Factors related to our employment of physicians could affect our financial performance.. <U+FEFF>. We employ a large number of physicians.  We believe that physician employment is consistent with industry trends because it provides a way for our hospitals to meet the community need for primary care physicians and certain specialists, and because of reductions in payment amounts received by physicians for professional services coupled with increasing technology and insurance costs. Employed physicians generally present more direct risks to us than those presented by independent members of our hospitals' medical staffs, such as risks of unsuccessful physician integration, challenges associated with physician practice management and compliance risks arising from the increased billing and coding activities associated with the employment of physicians and governmental scrutiny of physician employment arrangements. Employed physicians also require us to incur additional expenses, such as increased salary and benefit costs, medical malpractice expense and rent expense.  The potential liabilities and increased expenses of employing physicians could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Deterioration in the collectability of \"patient due\" accounts could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. The primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (exclusions, deductibles and co-payments) remain outstanding.  The provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients.  The amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based on management's assessment of historical collection trends, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and other collection indicators.. <U+FEFF>. If we experience growth in self-pay volume and revenue, including increased acuity levels for uninsured patients and increases in co-payments and deductibles for insured patients, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected.  Although we have experienced a reduction in uninsured patients since 2014 as a result of the Affordable Care Act and the expansion of state Medicaid programs, we are unable to predict whether that trend will continue in light of the repeal of the penalties associated with the individual mandate and the cessation of the cost sharing reduction payments to insurers.  In addition, the risk of collection from insured patients (and the amounts due) has increased, and will likely continue to increase, as more individuals are enrolled in insurance plans with high deductibles or high co-payments, including those purchased on the Exchanges.  Additionally, only ten of the states in which we operate have decided to implement expansions to their Medicaid programs.  Accordingly, some low-income persons in states that are not expanding Medicaid will not have insurance coverage as intended by the Affordable Care Act.  Furthermore, our ability to improve collections from self-pay patients may be limited by regulatory and investigatory initiatives, including private lawsuits directed at hospital charges and collection practices for uninsured and underinsured patients.. <U+FEFF>. If the uninsured population does not continue to decrease as a result of the Affordable Care Act, or if the Affordable Care Act is repealed, replaced, or modified, the proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our collections of accounts receivable, results of operations and revenues.  In addition, even if the Affordable Care Act remains implemented in its current form, we may continue to experience bad debts and be required to provide uninsured discounts and charity care for patients that choose not to purchase coverage, undocumented immigrants who are not permitted to enroll in the Exchanges or government healthcare programs and in states that do not expand their Medicaid programs.  Furthermore, states that have expanded their Medicaid programs may be unable to sustain such expansion as the Enhanced FMAP is reduced or if the federal government changes, or is unable to fund the expansion of, the Medicaid program.. We are subject to potential legal and reputational risk as a result of our access to personal information of our patients and employees. A cybersecurity attack or security breach could cause a loss of confidential data and could adversely affect our relationships with business partners and subject us to legal claims and liabilities, reputational harm and business disruption.. There are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing employee, patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access to or theft of personal information. In the ordinary course of our business, we, and vendors acting on our behalf, collect and store sensitive data, including individual health data and other personally identifiable information of our patients and employees, and such information is often targeted by criminal organizations. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. We have developed a comprehensive set of policies and procedures in our efforts to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of this information and the systems and devices that store and transmit such information and to comply with HIPAA and other privacy and information security laws.. <U+FEFF>. 35. TABLE OF CONTENTS. We may be subject to security breaches, employee error, theft, malfeasance, phishing schemes, ransomware, faulty password or data security management, or other irregularities. The loss or exposure of personal information may trigger notification requirements under HIPAA and state laws, and could result in civil or criminal penalties. The HHS Office for Civil Rights has imposed civil monetary penalties and corrective action plans on covered entities for violating HIPAA's privacy and security rules. In addition, state attorneys general and private plaintiffs have brought civil actions seeking injunctions and damages in response to violations of HIPAA's privacy and security rules. As cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, we may not be able to anticipate certain attack methods in order to implement effective protective measures, and we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify and strengthen our security measures, investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities in our information systems and infrastructure, or invest in new technology designed to mitigate security risks.. <U+FEFF>. Cyber-attacks could also target theft of information in addition to personal health information, including financial assets, intellectual property, or other sensitive information belonging to us, our patients or our business partners.  Cyber-attacks also may be directed at disrupting our operations or the operations of our business partners.  If, in spite of our security and compliance efforts, we our any of our business associates we fall victim to cyber-attacks, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences.  These costs and consequences include, but are not limited to, remediation costs such as liability for stolen assets or information and repairing system damage that may have been caused, including incentives offered to patients or business partners in an effort to maintain business relationships after an attack; increased cybersecurity protection costs such as organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants; lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract patients following an attack; litigation; and reputational damage adversely affecting patient or investor confidence.  Any or all of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow through operations or successfully access other capital resources to fund all of our capital expenditure programs and commitments.. We require substantial capital resources to fund our growth strategy and ongoing capital expenditure programs, including capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion and construction at our facilities and the addition of equipment and technology at our facilities.  We often commit to significant capital expenditures well in advance of the time these expenditures will be made.  Our cash flows and available capital resources may be insufficient to fund our capital expenditure programs and commitments, and we may be forced to reduce or delay planned and required capital expenditures.  Additionally, we may experience delays or impediments in satisfying the schedule for capital expenditure commitments because of a variety of factors beyond our control, such as zoning, environmental, licensing and certificate of need regulations and restrictions.. <U+FEFF>. Furthermore, as part of our on-going acquisition strategy, we often commit to making significant capital improvements at acquired facilities over a number of years.  At December 31, 2017, we estimated our total remaining unfulfilled capital expenditure commitments to be approximately $1,305.1 million.  Refer to \"Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -   Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements\" for more information about the general timing and impact of these contractual obligations.  The failure to satisfy our capital expenditure commitment obligations could damage our reputation within our communities, expose us to potential claims from former owners of acquired facilities or other governing or regulatory agencies, and adversely impact our ability to negotiate and complete future acquisitions.  As a result, if our cash flows and available capital resources are not sufficient to fund all of our anticipated capital expenditures, it may be necessary for us to give priority to contractual capital expenditure commitment obligations over other elective capital expenditure programs.. Other hospitals and outpatient facilities provide services similar to those which we offer. In addition, physicians provide services in their offices that could be provided in our facilities. These factors increase the level of competition we face and may therefore adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. Competition among hospitals and other healthcare service providers, including outpatient facilities, has intensified in recent years. We also have acquired, and may continue to acquire, larger facilities in more concentrated population centers, which experience greater competition for healthcare services. We compete with other hospitals, including larger tertiary care centers located in metropolitan areas. Although the hospitals with which we compete may be a significant distance away from our facilities, patients in our markets may migrate on their own to, may be referred by local physicians to, or may be required by their health plan to travel to these hospitals. Furthermore, some of the hospitals with which we compete may offer more or different services than those available at our facilities, may have more advanced equipment or technology or may have a medical staff that is perceived to be better qualified. We also compete with hospitals and health systems that are implementing physician alignment strategies, such as employing physicians, acquiring physician practice groups and participating in ACOs or other clinical integration models, which may impact our competitive position.  Many of the hospitals that compete with our facilities are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or not-for-profit entities supported by endowments and charitable contributions and are eligible to participate in the 340B Program. These hospitals, in most instances, are also exempt from paying sales, property and income taxes.. 36. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Quality of care and value-based purchasing have also become significant trends and competitive factors in the healthcare industry. CMS makes public the performance data relating to multiple quality measures that hospitals submit in connection with their Medicare reimbursement. If the publicly-available performance data become a primary factor in where patients choose to receive care, and if competing hospitals have better results than our hospitals on those measures, our revenues and/or patient volumes could decline.. We also face significant and increasing competition from services offered by physicians (including physicians on our medical staffs) in their offices and from other specialized care providers, including freestanding emergency departments and outpatient surgery, oncology, physical therapy, diagnostic and urgent care centers (including many in which physicians may have an ownership interest). We also compete with specialty hospitals that focus on one or a small number of lucrative service lines, some of which are not required to operate emergency departments. Some of our hospitals have and will seek to develop outpatient facilities where necessary to compete effectively. However, to the extent that other providers are successful in developing outpatient facilities or physicians are able to offer additional, advanced services in their offices, our market share for these services will likely decrease in the future.. The industry emphasis on value-based purchasing and bundled payment arrangements may negatively affect our revenues.. There is a trend in the healthcare industry toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services and bundled payment arrangements. These value-based purchasing programs include, among other things, programs that require public reporting of quality data and tie reimbursement to the quality and efficiency of care that is provided by a facility.  For example, Medicare and Medicaid currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition, beginning in 2019, the QPP, which was created by MACRA, will be used to adjust payments that are made to physicians under the PFS based on the value and quality of care that is provided.  Medicare also does not reimburse for care related to certain hospital acquired conditions and reduces reimbursement to hospitals that have excessive readmissions.  Many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers also do not reimburse hospitals for certain hospital acquired conditions.  Bundled payment arrangements generally set a single target spending level for all healthcare services provided to a patient during an episode of care and are intended to create incentives for physicians, hospitals and other providers to work together to provide higher quality and more coordinated care at a lower cost.  While participation in most bundled payment arrangements is voluntary, CMS made participation in the CJR Model bundled payment arrangements mandatory for some providers.. We expect value-based purchasing programs to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of procedures and payments.  Given CMS' recent announcement that it intends to increase opportunities for providers to participate in voluntary initiatives rather than large mandatory bundled payment models, we are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations. However, it could negatively affect our revenues.. If we do not effectively attract, recruit and retain qualified physicians, our ability to deliver healthcare services efficiently will be adversely affected.. The success of our facilities depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals. The success of our efforts to recruit and retain quality physicians depends on several factors, including the actual and perceived quality of services provided by our facilities, our ability to meet demands for new technology, our ability to identify and communicate with physicians who want to practice in our communities. Our ability to attract and retain physicians is increasingly dependent on the ability of our facilities to offer and sustain employment arrangements.  In particular, we face intense competition in the recruitment and retention of specialists and primary care physicians. We may not be able to recruit all of the physicians we target.. Additionally, our ability to recruit and employ physicians is closely regulated. For example, the types, amount and duration of compensation and assistance we can provide to recruited physicians are limited by the Stark law, the Anti-kickback Statute, state anti-kickback and physician self-referral statutes, and related regulations. All arrangements with physicians must also be fair market value and commercially reasonable.. In addition to these legal requirements, there is competition from other communities and facilities for these physicians, and this competition continues after the physician is practicing in one of our communities.  For example, integrated ACOs and other kinds of \"narrow\" provider networks or organizations may exclude our physicians from their plans' networks of healthcare providers. If our affiliated providers are excluded from such networks, we may have difficulty recruiting new providers or retaining existing providers.. Generally, a small number of attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. The loss of one or more of these physicians  -  even if temporary  -  could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time and operational resources to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians.. 37. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Finally, a significant portion of the physicians serving our facilities are native to countries other than the U.S.  Our ability to recruit such physicians and their ability and willingness to remain and work in the U.S. are impacted by immigration laws and regulations. Changes in immigration or naturalization laws, regulations, or procedures may adversely affect our ability to hire or retain physicians and may adversely affect our costs of doing business and/or our ability to deliver services in our communities.. We may have difficulty acquiring hospitals on favorable terms.. A significant element of our business strategy is expansion through the acquisition of acute care hospitals, especially those around which a system of hospitals and other healthcare services can be created.  We face significant competition to acquire attractive hospitals, and we may not find suitable acquisitions on favorable terms. Our primary competitors for acquisitions have included for-profit and tax-exempt hospitals and health systems and privately capitalized start-up companies. Buyers with a strategic desire for any particular hospital  -  for example, a hospital located near existing hospitals or those who will realize economic synergies  -  have demonstrated an ability and willingness to pay premium prices for hospitals. Strategic buyers, as a result, can present a competitive barrier to our acquisition efforts.. The cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital's results of operations, allocation of purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limitations on rate increases.. Even if we are able to identify an attractive target, we may need to obtain financing for acquisitions, joint ventures or required capital improvements. Such financing may not be available, or we may incur or assume additional indebtedness as a result.  Any financing arrangements we enter into may not be on terms favorable to us, and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or stock price.. In recent years, the legislatures and attorneys general of several states have become more interested in approving the sales of hospitals by tax-exempt entities.  Furthermore, as a condition to approving an acquisition, the state attorney general of the state in which the acquisition takes place may require us to maintain specific service lines or provide charity care at certain minimum levels for set periods of time after closing of the acquisition, regardless of profitability.  This heightened scrutiny may increase the cost and difficulty, or prevent the completion, of transactions with tax-exempt organizations in the future.  Our failure to acquire hospitals consistent with our growth plans could prevent us from increasing our revenues.. Many of the non-urban communities in which we operate continue to face challenging economic conditions and demographic trends, which may materially and adversely impede our business strategies intended to generate organic growth and improve operating results at our facilities.. <U+FEFF>. While the U.S. economy as a whole is expanding, many of the non-urban communities in which we operate continue to face challenging economic conditions, including high levels of unemployment, and demographic trends.  The economies in the non-urban communities in which our facilities primarily operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers, especially manufacturing or similar facilities. These employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our facilities for care. The failure of one or more large employers, or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at manufacturing or similar facilities located in or near many of the non-urban communities in which our facilities primarily operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere for employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. When patients are experiencing personal financial difficulties or have concerns about general economic conditions, they may choose to:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdefer or forego elective surgeries and other non-emergent procedures, which are generally more profitable lines of business for hospitals; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpurchase a high-deductible insurance plan or no insurance at all, which increases a hospital's dependence on self-pay revenue. Moreover, a greater number of uninsured patients may seek care in our emergency rooms.. <U+FEFF>. Additionally, non-urban communities are experiencing a much slower rate of growth, if any, as compared to more concentrated population centers.  As a result, we may experience payer mix pressures as aging populations in our non-urban communities shift from commercial insurance programs to Medicare or managed Medicare programs.. The occurrence of these events may impede our business strategies intended to generate organic growth and improve operating results at our facilities.. 38. TABLE OF CONTENTS. If we are unable to successfully implement standardized processes, policies and systems throughout our Company, our operating results could be negatively impacted.. We have initiated a multi-year business initiative to standardize certain processes, policies and systems throughout our facilities, including migrating our multiple information technology platforms to a smaller number of enterprise-wide systems solutions.  If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure and implement standardized systems, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to operate profitably and efficiently, and to timely comply with changing regulatory requirements and with the requests of patients, payers and business partners.  The failure to transition to these systems on time, or anticipate necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of revenue.  In addition, the operating results of newly acquired facilities could be impacted if such facilities are not integrated on a timely basis into our new systems.. In addition, as new information systems are developed in the future, we will need to integrate them into our existing systems. Evolving industry and regulatory standards may require changes to our systems in the future.  System conversions are costly, time consuming and disruptive for physicians, staff and, in some cases, patients. Some of our hospitals have recently converted or are currently converting from their existing system to another third party information system. If such conversions occurred on a large scale or if conversions at our larger facilities experience difficulties, the costs and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our revenues or results of operations.. If access to our information systems is interrupted or restricted, or if we are unable to make changes to our information systems, our operations could suffer.. Our business depends heavily on effective information systems to process clinical, operational and financial information. Information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and to develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology. We rely on multiple third party providers of financial, clinical, supply chain, patient accounting and network information services and, as a result, we face operational challenges in maintaining multiple provider platforms and facilitating the interface of such systems with one another. The third party providers may not have appropriate controls to protect confidential information. We do not control the information systems of third party providers, and in some cases we may have difficulty accessing information archived on third party systems, which could subject us to liability for failure to respond to legal or payer information requests.  Our networks and technology systems are also subject to disruption due to events such as a major earthquake, fire, flood, hurricane, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event.  If the information systems on which we rely fail or are interrupted, if our access to these systems is limited in the future or if providers develop systems more appropriate for the urban healthcare market and not suited for our facilities, our operations could suffer.. Our facilities face competition for management and other non-physician staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. Labor union activity could raise costs and interfere with our operations.. In addition to our physicians, the operations of our facilities are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, and on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees.  We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and staff personnel responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of our facilities, including nurses and other non-physician healthcare professionals. In some markets, the scarce availability of nurses and other medical support personnel presents a significant operating issue and the competition for experienced and talented hospital management personnel is intense. This may result in employee turnover, require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain management, nurses and other medical support personnel, hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel and recruit personnel from foreign countries (which may be limited by changes in immigration law, regulation and policy).  In addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in place. State-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios.. Increased or ongoing labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs or otherwise adversely impact us.  For example, we currently have ongoing labor negotiations at UP Health System  -  Marquette, and we have labor agreements that will expire in 2018 at five of our facilities.  If a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, our labor costs could increase significantly. In addition, when negotiating collective bargaining agreements with unions, whether such agreements are renewals or first contracts, there is the possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, and our continued operation during any strikes could increase our labor costs.. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. Because a significant percentage of our revenue consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control our labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our revenues or results of operations.. 39. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors, including factors outside our control, may impact our ability to meet investor expectations.. <U+FEFF>. The market price of our common stock may be adversely affected if we are unable to operate our facilities to achieve financial performance targets and meet market expectations. In addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. These factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other healthcare companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, changes in the healthcare regulatory environment or the political climate, speculation in the press or investment community, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets or other developments affecting the healthcare industry.. Our revenues are especially concentrated in a small number of states which will make us particularly sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in those states.. Our revenues are particularly sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in states in which we generate the majority of our revenues including North Carolina, Kentucky, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Tennessee,  Michigan and New Mexico. The following table contains our revenues and revenues as a percentage of our total revenues by state for each of these states for the years presented (dollars in millions):. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF> \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tRevenue Concentration by State \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t<U+FEFF> \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tHospital Campuses \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t2017 \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t2016 \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t2015 \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t<U+FEFF> \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tin State as of \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t% of \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t% of \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t% of \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t<U+FEFF> \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tDecember 31, 2017 \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tAmount \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tRevenues \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tAmount \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tRevenues \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tAmount \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tRevenues \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tNorth Carolina \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t9 \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t$ \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t933.6  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t14.8  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t% \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t$ \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t947.9  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t14.9  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t% \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t$ \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t580.3  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t11.1  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t% \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tKentucky \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t10 \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t704.2  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t11.2  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t679.9  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t10.7  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t638.5  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t12.2  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tVirginia \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t6 \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t653.9  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t10.4  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t661.8  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t10.4  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t641.9  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t12.3  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tPennsylvania \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t4 \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t553.1  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t8.8  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t562.5  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t8.8  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t566.5  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t10.9  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tTennessee \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t10 \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t465.3  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t7.4  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t450.1  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t7.1  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t420.7  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t8.1  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tMichigan \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t3 \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t444.9  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t7.1  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t468.0  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t7.4  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t476.2  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t9.1  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\tNew Mexico \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t2 \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t345.7  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t5.5  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t320.4  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t5.0  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t287.3  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t5.5. Accordingly, any changes in the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions, or to Medicaid programs or policies of private payers, in the above-mentioned states could have an adverse effect on our revenues or results of operations. Our concentration of revenues in these states also make it more likely that hurricanes, floods, persistent drought, power grid interruption or other factors beyond our control in these states could adversely affect our revenues or results of operations.. We have substantial indebtedness, and we may incur significant amounts of additional indebtedness in the future which could affect our ability to finance operations and capital expenditures, pursue desirable business opportunities or successfully operate our business in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, our total debt, excluding unamortized debt issuance costs and premium, was $2,918.3 million. We also have the ability to incur significant amounts of additional indebtedness, subject to the conditions imposed by the terms of the agreements and indentures governing our existing indebtedness or any additional indebtedness that we may incur in the future.. 40. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Although we believe that our future operating cash flow, together with available financing arrangements, will be sufficient to fund our operating requirements, our leverage and debt service obligations could have important consequences, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tUnder our debt agreements, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and tests. Failure to comply with these obligations may cause an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could require us to repay substantial indebtedness immediately. Moreover, if debt repayment is accelerated, we will be subject to higher interest rates on our debt obligations as a result of these covenants, and our credit ratings may be adversely impacted..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may be vulnerable in the event of downturns and adverse changes in the general economy or our industry..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may have difficulty obtaining additional financing at favorable interest rates to meet our requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of funds available for operations, capital expenditures and future acquisitions..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAny borrowings we incur at variable interest rates generally expose us to increases in interest rates..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA breach of any of the restrictions or covenants in our debt agreements could cause a cross-default under other debt agreements. We may be required to pay our indebtedness immediately if we default on any of the numerous financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the debt agreements. It is not certain whether we will have, or will be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. If any senior debt is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness and our other indebtedness..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIn the event of a default, we may be forced to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking additional equity capital. There can be no assurances that any of these strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that sufficient funds could be obtained to make these accelerated payments.. Covenant restrictions under certain of our debt agreements and indentures impose operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to operate our business and to make payments on the notes and other outstanding indebtedness.. Agreements governing our existing indebtedness contain covenants that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to take advantage of other business opportunities that may be in our interest or to satisfy our other debt obligations. These covenants restrict our ability to, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur or guarantee additional debt or extend credit;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends or make distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock or certain other debt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake other restricted payments, including investments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdispose of assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tengage in transactions with affiliates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreate liens on our assets or engage in sale/leaseback transactions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teffect a consolidation or merger, or sell, transfer, lease all or substantially all of our assets; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trepay our existing outstanding indebtedness.. If we fail to effectively and timely implement and maintain electronic health record and coding systems, our operations could be adversely affected.. As required by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (\"ARRA\"), the HHS has developed and implemented an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and healthcare professionals that adopt and meaningfully use EHR technology. If our hospitals and employed professionals are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing EHR systems.  Furthermore, eligible hospitals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology are subject to reduced payments from Medicare.  Even if we do meet such requirements, the incentive payments we have received in prior years for EHR implementation substantially ended in 2017. EHR incentive payments that we have previously recognized are subject to audit and potential recoupment if it is determined that we did not meet the applicable meaningful use standards required in connection with such incentive payments.. Our EHR's will require software upgrades in 2018 or 2019 in order to continue being categorized as Certified EHR technology as designated by the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology.  Failure to implement EHR systems or maintain current requirements for EHR effectively and in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations under various CMS programs.. 41. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Certificate of need laws and regulations regarding licenses, ownership and operation may impair our future expansion in some states. In states without certificate of need laws, competing providers of healthcare services are able to expand and construct facilities without the need for significant regulatory approval.. Some states require prior approval for the purchase, construction and expansion of healthcare facilities, based on the state's determination of need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. In addition, certain states in which we operate facilities require a certificate of need for capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in bed capacity or services, and for certain other planned activities. We may not be able to obtain certificates of need required for expansion activities or to effectively compete with competing healthcare providers in the future. In addition, all of the states in which we operate facilities require hospitals and most healthcare providers to maintain one or more licenses. If we fail to obtain any required certificate of need or license, our ability to operate or expand operations in those states could be impaired.. Some states in which we operate do not require certificates of need for the purchase, construction and expansion of healthcare facilities or services.  Additionally, from time to time, states with existing requirements may repeal or limit the scope of their certificate of need programs.  Our competing healthcare providers face lower barriers to entry and expansion in such states.  If these competing providers of healthcare services are able to purchase, construct or expand healthcare facilities without the need for regulatory approval, we may face decreased market share and revenues in those markets.. <U+FEFF>"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
