[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The risk factors described below and other information included elsewhere in this Form 10-K are among the numerous risked faced by our Company and should be carefully considered before deciding to invest in, sell or retain shares of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY. Our failure to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for participation in Title IV Programs and school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations and loss of external financial aid funding, which could affect our revenues and impose significant operating restrictions on us.. Our industry is highly regulated by federal and state governmental agencies and by accrediting commissions. In particular, the HEA and DOE regulations specify extensive criteria and numerous standards that an institution must satisfy to establish to participate in the Title IV Programs.  For a description of these criteria, see \"Regulatory Environment.\". If we are found not to have satisfied the DOE's requirements for Title IV Programs funding, one or more of our institutions, including its additional locations, could be limited in its access to, or lose, Title IV Program funding, which could adversely affect our revenue, as we received approximately 78% of our revenue (calculated based on cash receipts) from Title IV Programs in 2017, and have a significant impact on our business and results of operations.  Furthermore, if any of our schools fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the school and its related main campus and/or additional locations could be subject to, among other things, the loss of state licensure or accreditation, the loss of eligibility to participate in and receive funds under the Title IV Programs, the loss of the ability to grant degrees, diplomas and certificates, provisional certification, or the imposition of liabilities or monetary penalties, any of which could adversely affect our revenues and impose significant operating restrictions upon us. In addition, the loss by any of our schools of its accreditation, its state authorization or license, or its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs would constitute an event of default under our credit agreement with our lender, which could result in the acceleration of all amounts then outstanding with respect to our outstanding loan obligations.  The various regulatory agencies applicable to our business periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements and restrictions. We cannot predict with certainty how any of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with these requirements or any additional requirements instituted in the future.. If we fail to demonstrate \"administrative capability\" to the DOE, our business could suffer.. DOE regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite \"administrative capability\" to participate in Title IV Programs. For a description of these criteria, see \"Regulatory Environment  -  Administrative Capability.\". If we are found not to have satisfied the DOE's \"administrative capability\" requirements, or otherwise failed to comply with one or more DOE requirements, one or more of our institutions, including its additional locations, could be limited in its access to, or lose, Title IV Program funding.  A loss or decrease in Title IV funding could adversely affect our revenue, as we received approximately 78% of our revenue (calculated based on cash receipts) from Title IV Programs in 2017, which would have a significant impact on our business and results of operations.. Congress and the DOE may make changes to the laws and regulations applicable to, or reduce funding for, Title IV Programs, which could reduce our student population, revenues or profit margin.. Congress periodically revises the HEA and other laws governing Title IV Programs and annually determines the funding level for each Title IV Program. We cannot predict what if any legislative or other actions will be taken or proposed by Congress in connection with the reauthorization of the HEA or with other activities of Congress.  See \"Regulatory Environment  -  Congressional Action.\"  Because a significant percentage of our revenues are derived from the Title IV programs, any action by Congress or the DOE that significantly reduces funding for Title IV Programs or that limits or restricts the ability of our schools, programs, or students to receive funding through those Programs or that imposes new restrictions or constraints upon our business or operations could reduce our student enrollment and our revenues, and could increase our administrative costs and require us to modify our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with Title IV program requirements.  In addition, current requirements for student or school participation in Title IV Programs may change or one or more of the present Title IV Programs could be replaced by other programs with materially different student or school eligibility requirements.  If we cannot comply with the provisions of the HEA, as they may be revised, or if the cost of such compliance is excessive, or if funding is materially reduced, our revenues or profit margin could be materially adversely affected.. 21. Index. The DOE has changed its regulations, and may make other changes in the future, in a manner which could require us to incur additional costs in connection with our administration of the Title IV Programs, affect our ability to remain eligible to participate in the Title IV Programs, impose restrictions on our participation in the Title IV Programs, affect the rate at which students enroll in our programs, or otherwise have a significant impact on our business and results of operations.. In October 2014, the DOE issued final regulations on gainful employment requiring each educational program to achieve threshold rates in two debt measure categories related to an annual debt to annual earnings ratio and an annual debt to discretionary income ratio. The regulations outline various scenarios under which programs could lose Title IV Program eligibility for failure to achieve threshold rates in one or more measures over certain periods of time ranging from two to four years. The regulations also require an institution to provide warnings to students in programs which may lose Title IV Program eligibility at the end of an award year. The final regulations also contain other provisions that, among other things, include disclosure, reporting, new program approval, and certification requirements.  See \"Regulatory Environment  -  Gainful Employment.\". The DOE announced its intent to convene a negotiated rulemaking committee to develop proposed regulations to revise the gainful employment regulations. The DOE has not established a final schedule for publication of proposed or final regulations. Any regulations published in final form by November 1, 2018 typically would take effect in July 1, 2019, but we cannot provide any assurances as to the timing or content of any such regulations.. On June 30, 2017, the DOE announced the extension of the compliance date for certain gainful employment disclosure requirements from July 1, 2017 to July 1, 2018. The DOE stated that institutions are still required to comply with other gainful employment disclosure requirements by July 1, 2017. On August 18, 2017, the DOE announced in the Federal Register new deadlines for submitting notices of intent to file alternate earnings appeals of gainful employment rates and for submitting alternate earnings appeals of those rates. The deadline to file a notice of intent to file an appeal was October 6, 2017 and the deadline to file the alternate earnings appeal was February 1, 2018. The DOE has not announced a delay or suspension in the enforcement of any other gainful employment regulations. However, on August 8, 2017, DOE officials announced that the DOE did not have a timetable for the issuance of completer lists to schools, which is the first step toward generating the data for calculating new gainful employment rates. Consequently, we cannot predict when the DOE will begin the process of calculating and issuing new draft or final gainful employment rates in the future. We also cannot predict whether the announcement of the intent to initiate gainful employment rulemaking or the extension of certain gainful employment deadlines may result in the DOE delaying the issuance of new draft or final gainful employment rates in the future.. In January 2016, the DOE began negotiated rulemaking to develop proposed regulations regarding a borrower's ability to allege acts or omissions by an institution as a defense to the repayment of certain Title IV loans and the consequences to the borrower, the DOE, and the institution.  See \"Regulatory Environment  -  Borrower Defense to Repayment Regulations.\"  On November 1, 2016, the DOE published in the Federal Register the final version of these regulations with a general effective date of July 1, 2017 and which, among other things, include rules for:.   establishing new processes, and updating existing processes, for enabling borrowers to obtain from the DOE a discharge of some or all of their federal student loans based on circumstances such as certain acts or omissions of the institution and for the DOE to impose and collect liabilities against the institution following the loan discharges;.   establishing expanded standards of financial responsibility (see \"Financial Responsibility Standards\");.   requiring institutions to make disclosures to current and prospective students regarding the existence of certain of the circumstances identified in the expanded standards of financial responsibility;.   calculating a loan repayment rate for each proprietary institution under standards established by the regulations and requiring institutions to provide warnings to current and prospective students if the institution has a loan repayment rate below specified thresholds;.   prohibiting certain contractual provisions imposed by or on behalf of schools on students regarding arbitration, dispute resolution, and participation in class actions; and.   expanding the existing definition of misrepresentations that could result in grounds for discharge of student loans and in liabilities and sanctions against the institution, including, without limitation, potential loss of Title IV eligibility.. On January 19, 2017, the DOE issued new regulations that update the Department's hearing procedures for actions to establish liability against an institution and to establish procedural rules governing recovery proceedings under the DOE's borrower defense to repayment regulations.. The DOE has delayed the effective date of a majority of these regulations until July 1, 2019 to ensure that there is adequate time to conduct negotiated rulemaking and, as necessary, develop revised regulations. The DOE intends to issue proposed regulations for public comment during the first half of 2018, but the DOE has not established a final schedule. Any regulations published in final form by November 1, 2018 typically would take effect on July 1, 2019, but we cannot provide any assurances as to the timing or content of any such regulations or whether and when the DOE might end the delay in the effective date of the previously published regulations.. 22. Index. We cannot predict how the DOE would interpret and enforce the new borrower defense to repayment rules if they take effect after the delay or how these rules, or any rules that may arise out of the negotiated rulemaking process or any other rules that DOE may promulgate on this or other topics, may impact our schools' participation in the Title IV programs; however, the new rules could have a material adverse effect on our schools' business and results of operations, and the broad sweep of the rules may, in the future, require our schools to submit a letter of credit based on expanded standards of financial responsibility as indicated above.. If we or our eligible institutions do not meet the financial responsibility standards prescribed by the DOE, we may be required to post letters of credit or our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs could be terminated or limited, which could significantly reduce our student population and revenues.. To participate in Title IV Programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the DOE or post a letter of credit in favor of the DOE and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV Programs.  The DOE published new regulations, currently delayed until July 1, 2019, that establish expanded standards of financial responsibility that could result in a requirement that we submit to the DOE a substantial letter of credit or other form of financial protection in an amount determined by the DOE, and be subject to other conditions and requirements, based on any one of an extensive list of triggering circumstances.  See \"Regulatory Environment  -  Financial Responsibility Standards.\"  Any obligation to post one or more letters of credit would increase our costs of regulatory compliance.  Our inability to obtain a required letter of credit or limitations on, or termination of, our participation in Title IV Programs could limit our students' access to various government-sponsored student financial aid programs, which could significantly reduce our student population and revenues.. We are subject to fines and other sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations.. An institution participating in Title IV Programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in enrolling students or securing financial aid to any person involved in any student recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds. See \"Regulatory Environment -- Restrictions on Payment of Commissions, Bonuses and Other Incentive Payments.\"  We cannot predict how the DOE will interpret and enforce the incentive compensation rule.  The implementation of these regulations has required us to change our compensation practices and has had and may continue to have a significant impact on the rate at which students enroll in our programs and on our business and results of operations.  If we are found to have violated this law, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by the DOE or we could face litigation filed under the qui tam provisions of the Federal False Claims Act.. If our schools do not maintain their accreditation, they may not participate in Title IV Programs, which could adversely affect our student population and revenues.. An institution must be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the DOE in order to participate in Title IV Programs.  Our Iselin school and its branch campuses are accredited by an accrediting commission that is no longer recognized by the DOE, and therefore, must obtain accreditation from a new accrediting commission by June 12, 2018 in order to continue participating in Title IV Programs and is subject to additional conditions imposed by the DOE prior to that date.  As discussed under the \"Regulatory Environment  -  Accreditation,\" we have applied to another accrediting agency, ACCSC, for accreditation of our Iselin school and its branch campuses.  If our Iselin school and its campuses are unable to obtain initial accreditation from ACCSC by June 12, 2018, then our Iselin school and its branch campuses would lose Title IV Program eligibility as of that date.  If any of our schools fails to comply with accrediting commission requirements, the institution and its main and/or branch campuses are subject to the loss of accreditation or may be placed on probation or a special monitoring or reporting status which, if the noncompliance with accrediting commission requirements is not resolved, could result in loss of accreditation. Loss of accreditation by any of our main campuses would result in the termination of eligibility of that school and all of its branch campuses to participate in Title IV Programs and could cause us to close the school and its branches, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business and operations.. Programmatic accreditation is the process through which specific programs are reviewed and approved by industry- and program-specific accrediting entities. Although programmatic accreditation is not generally necessary for Title IV eligibility, such accreditation may be required to allow students to sit for certain licensure exams or to work in a particular profession or career or to meet other requirements.    Failure to obtain or maintain such programmatic accreditation may lead to a decline in enrollments in such programs.  Moreover, under new gainful employment regulations issued by the DOE, institutions are required to certify that they have programmatic accreditation under certain circumstances.  See \"Regulatory Environment  -  Gainful Employment.\"  Failure to comply with these new requirements could impact the Title IV eligibility of educational programs that are required to maintain such programmatic accreditation.. 23. Index. Our institutions would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if the percentage of their revenues derived from those programs exceeds 90%, which could reduce our student population and revenues.. Under the HEA reauthorization, a proprietary institution that derives more than 90% of its total revenue from Title IV Programs for two consecutive fiscal years becomes immediately ineligible to participate in Title IV Programs and may not reapply for eligibility until the end of at least two fiscal years. An institution with revenues exceeding 90% for a single fiscal year will be placed on provisional certification and may be subject to other enforcement measures.  See \"Regulatory Environment  -  90/10 Rule.\" If any of our institutions loses eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, that loss would cause an event of default under our credit agreement, would also adversely affect our students' access to various government-sponsored student financial aid programs, and would have a significant impact on the rate at which our students enroll in our programs and on our business and results of operations.. Our institutions would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if their former students defaulted on repayment of their federal student loans in excess of specified levels, which could reduce our student population and revenues.. An institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV Programs if the rates at which the institution's current and former students default on their federal student loans exceed specified percentages.  See \"Regulatory Environment  -  Student Loan Defaults.\"  If former students defaulted on repayment of their federal student loans in excess of specified levels, our institutions would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, would cause an event of default under our credit agreement, would also adversely affect our students' access to various government-sponsored student financial aid programs, and would have a significant impact on the rate at which our students enroll in our programs and on our business and results of operations.  .. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational program, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and decrease our profit margin.. An institution participating in Title IV Programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that have been credited to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completing them and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the institution determines that the student has withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the DOE or may be otherwise sanctioned by the DOE, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. Based upon the findings of an annual Title IV Program compliance audit of our Columbia, Maryland and Iselin, New Jersey institutions, the Company submitted letters of credit in the amounts of $0.5 million and $0.1 million to the DOE.  We are required to maintain those letters of credit in place for a minimum of two years. See \"Regulatory Environment  -  Return of Title IV Program Funds.\". Regulatory agencies or third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us. If the results of these reviews or claims are unfavorable to us, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to compliance reviews and claims of noncompliance and lawsuits by government agencies and third parties. If the results of these reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to defend successfully against third-party lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, limitations on the operations of our business, loss of federal and state funding, injunctions or other penalties. Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or defend those lawsuits or claims.  Certain of our institutions are subject to ongoing reviews and proceedings.  See \"Regulatory Environment  -  State Authorization,\" \"Regulatory Environment  -  Accreditation,\" and \"Regulatory Environment - Compliance with Regulatory Standards and Effect of Regulatory Violations.\". A decline in the overall growth of enrollment in post-secondary institutions, or in our core disciplines, could cause us to experience lower enrollment at our schools, which could negatively impact our future growth.. Enrollment in post-secondary institutions over the next ten years is expected to be slower than in the prior ten years.  In addition, the number of high school graduates eligible to enroll in post-secondary institutions is expected to fall before resuming a growth pattern for the foreseeable future. In order to increase our current growth rates in degree granting programs, we will need to attract a larger percentage of students in existing markets and expand our markets by creating new academic programs. In addition, if job growth in the fields related to our core disciplines is weaker than expected, as a result of any regional or national economic downturn or otherwise, fewer students may seek the types of diploma or degree granting programs that we offer or seek to offer. Our failure to attract new students, or the decisions by prospective students to seek diploma or degree programs in other disciplines, would have an adverse impact on our future growth.. 24. Index. Our business could be adversely impacted by additional legislation, regulations, or investigations regarding private student lending because students attending our schools rely on private student loans to pay tuition and other institutional charges.. The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (\"CFPB\"), under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, has exercised supervisory authority over private education loan providers.  The CFPB has been active in conducting investigations into the private student loan market and issuing several reports with findings that are critical of the private student loan market.  The CFPB has initiated investigations into the lending practices of other institutions in the for-profit education sector.  The CFPB has issued procedures for further examination of private education loans and published requests for information regarding repayment plans and regarding arrangements between schools and financial institutions. On August 31, 2017, the DOE informed CFPB that it was terminating an information sharing Memorandum of Understanding between the two agencies, in part because the CFPB was acting on student complaints rather than referring them to the DOE for action.  The DOE asserted full oversight responsibility for federal student loans, but not with respect to private loans.  In late November 2017, new leadership at the CFPB began taking steps to end or pause certain investigations and to restrict or reconsider some its enforcement activities.  However, it is unclear the extent to which the CFPB will continue to exercise oversight authority over private education loan providers.. We cannot predict whether any of this activity, or other activities, will result in Congress, the DOE, the CFPB or other regulators adopting new legislation or regulations, or conducting new investigations, into the private student loan market or into the loans received by our students to attend our institutions.  Any new legislation, regulations, or investigations regarding private student lending could limit the availability of private student loans to our students, which could have a significant impact on our business and operations.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs in a cost-effective manner and on a timely basis.. Prospective employers of our graduates increasingly demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological skills. These skills are becoming more sophisticated in line with technological advancements in the automotive, diesel, information technology, and skilled trades. Accordingly, educational programs at our schools must keep pace with those technological advancements. The expansion of our existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by our students, prospective employers or the technical education market. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as our competitors or as quickly as employers demand. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to financial constraints, unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired, our placement rates could suffer and our revenues could be adversely affected.. In addition, if we are unable to adequately anticipate the requirements of the employers we serve, we may offer programs that do not teach skills useful to prospective employers or students seeking a technical or career-oriented education which could affect our placement rates and our ability to attract and retain students, causing our revenues to be adversely affected.. Competition could decrease our market share and cause us to lower our tuition rates.. The post-secondary education market is highly competitive. Our schools compete for students and faculty with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other proprietary schools, many of which have greater financial resources than we do. Some traditional public and private colleges and universities, as well as other private career-oriented schools, offer programs that may be perceived by students to be similar to ours. Most public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies and other financial resources not available to for-profit schools. Some of our competitors also have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have which may, among other things, allow our competitors to secure strategic relationships with some or all of our existing strategic partners or develop other high profile strategic relationships, or devote more resources to expanding their programs and their school network, or provide greater financing alternatives to their students, all of which could affect the success of our marketing programs. In addition, some of our competitors have a larger network of schools and campuses than we do, enabling them to recruit students more effectively from a wider geographic area. If we are unable to compete effectively with these institutions for students, our student enrollment and revenues will be adversely affected.. We may be required to reduce tuition or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities. As a result, our market share, revenues and operating margin may be decreased. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. 25. Index. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our programs among high school graduates and working adults looking to return to school.. The awareness of our programs among high school graduates and working adults looking to return to school is critical to the continued acceptance and growth of our programs. Our inability to continue to develop awareness of our programs could reduce our enrollments and impair our ability to increase our revenues or maintain profitability. The following are some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing our programs:.   Student dissatisfaction with our programs and services;.   Diminished access to high school student populations;.   Our failure to maintain or expand our brand or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices; and.   Our inability to maintain relationships with employers in the automotive, diesel, skilled trades and IT services industries.. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students.. Our students and their families have benefitted from historic lows on student loan interest rates in recent years.  Much of the financing our students receive is tied to floating interest rates. Recently, however, student loan interest rates have been edging higher, making borrowing for education more expensive.  Increases in interest rates result in a corresponding increase in the cost to our existing and prospective students of financing their education, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our schools and could adversely affect our results of operations and revenues. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students' repayment of their education loans. Higher default rates may in turn adversely impact our eligibility for Title IV Program participation or the willingness of private lenders to make private loan programs available to students who attend our schools, which could result in a reduction in our student population.. A substantial decrease in student financing options, or a significant increase in financing costs for our students, could have a significant impact on our student population, revenues and financial results.. The consumer credit markets in the United States have recently suffered from increases in default rates and foreclosures on mortgages.  Adverse market conditions for consumer and federally guaranteed student loans could result in providers of alternative loans reducing the attractiveness and/or decreasing the availability of alternative loans to post-secondary students, including students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based alternative loans. Prospective students may find that these increased financing costs make borrowing prohibitively expensive and abandon or delay enrollment in post-secondary education programs. Private lenders could also require that we pay them new or increased fees in order to provide alternative loans to prospective students. If any of these scenarios were to occur, our students' ability to finance their education could be adversely affected and our student population could decrease, which could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, any actions by the U.S. Congress or by states that significantly reduce funding for Title IV Programs or other student financial assistance programs, or the ability of our students to participate in these programs, or establish different or more stringent requirements for our schools to participate in those programs, could have a significant impact on our student population, results of operations and cash flows.. Our total assets include substantial intangible assets. In the event that our schools do not achieve satisfactory operating results, we may be required to write-off a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets which would negatively affect our results of operations.. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets. At December 31, 2017, goodwill and identified intangibles, net, associated with our acquisitions increased to approximately 9.4% from 8.9% of total assets at December 31, 2016.  On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there has been an impairment in the value of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives. If the carrying value of the tested asset exceeds its estimated fair value, impairment is deemed to have occurred.  In this event, the amount is written down to fair value.  Under current accounting rules, this would result in a charge to operating earnings. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or unamortized identified intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, which could be material.. 26. Index. We cannot predict our future capital needs, and if we are unable to secure additional financing when needed, our operations and revenues would be adversely affected.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to fund acquisitions, working capital requirements, expand our markets and program offerings or respond to competitive pressures or perceived opportunities. We cannot be sure that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all.   If adequate funds are not available when required or on acceptable terms, we may be forced to forego attractive acquisition opportunities, cease our operations and, even if we are able to continue our operations, our ability to increase student enrollment and revenues would be adversely affected.. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain the personnel we need to sustain and grow our business.. Our success has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers who generally have significant experience within the post-secondary education industry. Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school directors, administrators and corporate management. Due to the nature of our business, we face significant competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. Furthermore, we do not currently carry \"key man\" life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business efficiently and to execute our growth strategy.. Strikes by our employees may disrupt our ability to hold classes as well as our ability to attract and retain students, which could materially adversely affect our operations.  In addition, we contribute to multiemployer benefit plans that could result in liabilities to us if these plans are terminated or we withdraw from them.. As of December 31, 2017, the teaching professionals at six of our campuses are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2018 and 2020.  Although we believe that we have good relationships with these unions and with our employees, any strikes or work stoppages by our employees could adversely impact our relationships with our students, hinder our ability to conduct business and increase costs.. We also contribute to multiemployer pension plans for some employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.  These plans are not administered by us, and contributions are determined in accordance with provisions of negotiated labor contracts.  The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multiemployer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, imposes certain liabilities upon employers who are contributors to a multiemployer plan in the event of the employer's withdrawal from, or upon termination of, such plan.  We do not routinely review information on the net assets and actuarial present value of the multiemployer pension plans' unfunded vested benefits allocable to us, if any, and we are not presently aware of any material amounts for which we may be contingently liable if we were to withdraw from any of these plans.  In addition, if any of these multiemployer plans enters \"critical status\" under the Pension Protection Act of 2006, we could be required to make significant additional contributions to those plans.. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and New Jersey law could discourage a change of control that our stockholders may favor, which could negatively affect our stock price.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws and applicable provisions of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. For example, applicable provisions of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of five years after the person becomes an interested stockholder. Furthermore, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws:.   authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt;.   prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of stock to elect some directors;.   require super-majority voting to effect amendments to certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation;.   limit who may call special meetings of both the board of directors and stockholders;.   prohibit stockholder action by non-unanimous written consent and otherwise require all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders;.   establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholders' meetings; and. 27. Index.   require that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office.. We can issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of common stockholders.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation permits us to establish the rights, privileges, preferences and restrictions, including voting rights, of future series of our preferred stock and to issue such stock without approval from our stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock may suffer as a result of the rights granted to holders of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, we could issue preferred stock to prevent a change in control of our Company, depriving common stockholders of an opportunity to sell their stock at a price in excess of the prevailing market price.. The trading price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future.. Our stock price has declined substantially over the past five years and has and may fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control.  These factors include:.   general economic conditions;.   general conditions in the for-profit, post-secondary education industry;.   negative media coverage of the for-profit, post-secondary education industry;.   failure of certain of our schools or programs to maintain compliance under the gainful employment regulation, 90-10 Rule or with financial responsibility standards;.   the impact of DOE rulemaking and other changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate;.   the initiation, pendency or outcome of litigation, accreditation reviews and regulatory reviews, inquiries and investigations;.   loss of key personnel;.   quarterly variations in our operating results;.   our ability to meet or exceed, or changes in, expectations of investors and analysts, or the extent of analyst coverage of us; and.   decisions by any significant investors to reduce their investment in our common stock.. In addition, the trading volume of our common stock is relatively low.  This may cause our stock price to react more to these factors and various other factors and may impact an investor's ability to sell our common stock at the desired time at a price considered satisfactory.  Any of these factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent an investor from selling shares of our common stock at or above the price at which the investor purchased them.. System disruptions to our technology infrastructure could impact our ability to generate revenue and could damage the reputation of our institutions.. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and to our ability to attract and retain students. We license the software and related hosting and maintenance services for our online platform and our student information system from third-party software providers. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could result in the unavailability of systems to us or our students or result in delays and/or errors in processing student financial aid and related disbursements.  Any such system disruptions could impact our ability to generate revenue and affect our ability to access information about our students and could also damage the reputation of our institutions.  Any of the cyber-attacks, breaches or other disruptions or damage described above could interrupt our operations, result in theft of our and our students' data or result in legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy laws and increased cost for security and remediation, each of which could adversely affect our business and financial results.  We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against system errors, failures or disruptions or to repair problems caused by any actual errors, disruptions or failures.. We are subject to privacy and information security laws and regulations due to our collection and use of personal information, and any violations of those laws or regulations, or any breach, theft or loss of that information, could adversely affect our reputation and operations.. Our efforts to attract and enroll students result in us collecting, using and storing substantial amounts of personal information regarding applicants, our students, their families and alumni, including social security numbers and financial data. We also maintain personal information about our employees in the ordinary course of our activities. Our services, the services of many of our health plan and benefit plan vendors, and other information can be accessed globally through the Internet. We rely extensively on our network of interconnected applications and databases for day to day operations as well as financial reporting and the processing of financial transactions. Our computer networks and those of our vendors that manage confidential information for us or provide services to our student may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks and breaches, acts of vandalism, ransomware, software viruses and other similar types of malicious activities.. Regular patching of our computer systems and frequent updates to our virus detection and prevention software with the latest virus and malware signatures may not catch newly introduced malware and viruses or \"zero-day\" viruses, prior to their infecting our systems and potentially disrupting our data integrity, taking sensitive information or affecting financial transactions. While we utilize security and business controls to limit access to and use of personal information, any breach of student or employee privacy or errors in storing, using or transmitting personal information could violate privacy laws and regulations resulting in fines or other penalties. A wide range of high profile data breaches in recent years has led to renewed interest in federal data and cybersecurity legislation that could increase our costs and/or require changes in our operating procedures or systems. A breach, theft or loss of personal information held by us or our vendors, or a violation of the laws and regulations governing privacy could have a material adverse effect on our reputation or result in lawsuits, additional regulation, remediation and compliance costs or investments in additional security systems to protect our computer networks, the costs of which may be substantial.. 28. Index. Changes in U.S. tax laws or adverse outcomes from examination of our tax returns could have an adverse effect upon our financial results.. We are subject to income tax requirements in various jurisdictions in the United States. Legislation or other changes in the tax laws of the jurisdictions where we do business could increase our liability and adversely affect our after-tax profitability. In the United States, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted on December 22, 2017, could have a significant impact on our effective tax rate, net deferred tax assets and cash tax expenses. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, among other things, reduces the U.S. corporate statutory tax rate, repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax, changes how existing corporate alternative minimum tax credits can be realized either to offset regular tax liability or to be refunded, and eliminates or limits deduction of several expenses which were previously deductible. We are currently evaluating the overall impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our effective tax rate and balance sheet, but expect that the impact may be significant for our fiscal year 2018 and future periods.. In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and the taxing authorities of various states.  We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and we have accrued tax and related interest for potential adjustments to tax liabilities for prior years.  However, there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these tax examinations will not have a material effect, either positive or negative, on our business, financial conditions and results of operation."
