[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could suffer. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not in any particular order and are not the only significant risks we may face. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We have vendor contracts with the United States Department of Defense in our CAG segment and Amazon.com, Inc. in our RSCG segment under which we acquire a significant portion of our inventory, and if our relationship with either of them is disrupted, we would experience a significant decrease in revenue and income.. We have two material vendor contracts with the DLA Disposition Services under which we acquire, manage and resell surplus and scrap property of the DoD. If our relationship with, or our ability to purchase inventory from, the DoD is impaired, we are not awarded new DoD vendor contracts when our current contracts expire, any of our DoD vendor contracts are terminated or the supply of inventory under the vendor contracts is significantly decreased, we likely would be unable to procure alternative product from other vendors in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all, and would therefore experience a significant decrease in revenue and GMV which, in turn, may adversely impact the profitability of the Company.  Resale of surplus property that we purchased, as well as services we provided to the DoD, under the Surplus Contract accounted for 27.6%, 31.0%, and 24.7% of our revenue and 9.4%, 12.7%, and 12.3% of our GMV for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Resale of scrap property that we purchased under the Scrap Contract accounted for 11.1%, 10.2%, and 15.3% of our revenue and 4.7%, 5.0%, and 7.6% of our GMV for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We believe that these vendor contracts will continue to be the source of a significant portion of our inventory and GMV during their respective terms. The current term of the Surplus Contract ends in December 2017. There are three one-year options to extend, exercisable by DLA Disposition Services. On October 11, 2017, the DLA published a Request for Technical Proposal (\"RFTP\") for the sale of surplus, useable non-rolling stock property. The DLA intends to award two term contracts which are intended to replace our current Surplus contract. The DLA has also reserved its right to renew our current Surplus contract. See Note 18 (Subsequent Event) in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the bidding on the DLA's Request for Technical Proposal, which was issued subsequent to September 30, 2017. The current Scrap Contract has a three-year base term that will expire in September 2019,. subject to the DoD's right to extend for two additional one-year terms. Both of the DoD contracts are included within our CAG segment.. Under the current Surplus Contract, as amended, we are obligated to purchase all DoD surplus property at 4.35% of Disposition Services' original acquisition value (\"OAV\"). The DoD has broad discretion to determine what property will be made available for sale to us under the Surplus Contract and may retrieve or restrict property previously sold to us for national security or public safety reasons or if the property is otherwise needed to support the mission of the DoD. The DoD may also elect to provide for itself certain services that we currently provide under the Surplus Contract. Although the revenue we earn for these services has decreased as a result of price decreases, if the DoD makes such an election, the revenue we earn under the Surplus Contract will further decrease.. Our Surplus and Scrap Contracts with the DoD allow either party to terminate the contract for convenience. The DoD also has the right, after giving us notice and a 30-day opportunity to cure, to terminate the contracts and seek other contract remedies in the event of material breaches.. Our Surplus and Scrap Contracts were awarded by the DoD through a competitive bidding process, and we may be required to go through a new competitive bidding process when our existing contracts expire.  We may not win any such competitive solicitation, as one or more providers may offer to purchase property and provide the same or similar services at a more favorable price. Even if we win the competitive procurement, we could be required to increase significantly the prices we pay for inventory we purchase under these contracts, to reduce significantly the prices we charge for our services under the new contracts, or to provide additional services at prices that are not favorable to us. We could also be required to change our current methods of providing services under these contracts to methods that are more costly to us.  The failure to win the competitive solicitation or a requirement to purchase inventory at higher prices, or to provide our current services or additional services at significantly less favorable prices or in a manner that is more costly to us, would materially adversely affect our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, our participation in any competitive bidding process may be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations.. Additionally, we have a vendor contract with Amazon.com, Inc., under which we acquire and sell commercial merchandise. The property we purchased under this contract represented approximately 21.8%, 12.1%, and 6.9% of cost of goods sold for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. This contract is included within our RSCG segment.. If Amazon were to stop selling inventory to us on acceptable terms, we likely would be unable to procure alternative inventory from other vendors in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all, and would therefore experience a significant decrease in revenue and have difficulty generating income.. In addition, if our sellers violate applicable laws, regulations, or implements practices regarded as unethical, unsafe, or hazardous to the environment, it could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Unfavorable findings resulting from a government audit or investigation could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions, could negatively impact our future operating results and could force us to adjust previously reported operating results.. The federal government has the right to audit our performance under our government contracts. Any adverse findings from audits or reviews of our performance under our contracts could result in a significant adjustment to our previously reported operating results. The results of an audit by the government could significantly limit the volume and type of merchandise made available to us under our vendor contracts with the DoD, resulting in lower gross merchandise volume, revenue, and profitability for our company. If such a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, administrative sanctions and could suffer serious harm to our reputation. Government and law enforcement agencies may also investigate our other activities under our DoD contracts and our company. If such an investigation alleges that we engaged in improper or illegal activities, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. If, as the result of a government audit or investigation, or for any other reason, we are suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally, or any specific agency, if our reputation or relationship with government agencies is impaired, or if the government otherwise ceases doing business with us or significantly decreases the amount of business it does with us, our revenue and profitability would substantially decrease.. The success of our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain a supply of merchandise for our buyers and to attract and retain active professional buyers to create sufficient demand for our sellers.. Our ability to increase our revenue and maintain profitability depends on whether we can successfully expand the supply of merchandise available for sale on our ecommerce marketplaces and attract and retain active professional buyers to purchase the merchandise. Our ability to attract sufficient quantities of suitable merchandise and new buyers will depend on various factors, some of which are out of our control. These factors include our ability to:. • offer sellers liquid marketplaces for their surplus and salvage assets;. • offer buyers a sufficient supply of merchandise;. • develop and implement effective sales and marketing strategies;. • comply with regulatory or corporate seller requirements affecting marketing and disposition of certain categories of merchandise;. • efficiently catalogue, handle, store, ship and track merchandise; and. • achieve high levels of seller and buyer satisfaction with the trading experience.. We face intense competition.. Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we have many competitors in different industries, including the online services market for auctioning or liquidating surplus and salvage assets and retail markets. Competitive pressures could affect our ability to attract and retain buyers and sellers, which could decrease our revenue and negatively affect our operating results.. In our marketplaces for surplus and salvage assets, we currently compete with a variety of competing online, mobile, and offline channels. These include, but are not limited to, ecommerce providers, auction websites, retailers, distributors, liquidators, import and export companies, auctioneers, and government agencies that have created websites to sell surplus and salvage assets. As our product offerings continue to broaden into new categories of surplus items, we expect to face additional competition from other online, mobile, and offline channels for those offerings.. We expect our market to become even more competitive as traditional and online liquidators and auctioneers continue to develop online and offline services for disposition, redeployment and remarketing of surplus and salvage assets. In addition, manufacturers, retailers and government agencies may decide to create their own websites to sell their own surplus and salvage assets and those of third parties.. Competition may intensify in each of our businesses as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances and established companies in other market segments expand to become competitive with our business. In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, digital content, and electronic devices, may increase our competition. The Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, and increased competition may reduce our sales and profits.. Some of our other current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger seller and buyer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. They may be able to devote greater financial resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, secure better terms from sellers and vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing or inventory availability policies and devote substantially more resources to technology and infrastructure than we are able to do. Increased competition may result in reduced operating margins and loss of market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors.. Our operating results depend on our websites, network infrastructure, transaction processing systems, and our software runs on public clouds. Service interruptions or system failures could negatively affect the demand for our services and our ability to grow our revenue.. Any system interruptions that affect our websites or our transaction systems could impair the services that we provide to our sellers and buyers. In addition, our systems and data centers may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of other sources, including, for example,. • damage to, or failure of, our computer software or hardware or our connections to, and outsourced service arrangements with, third parties;. • failure of, or defects in, the third-party systems, software or equipment on which we rely to access our data centers and other systems;. • errors in the processing of data by our systems;. • computer viruses, malware or software defects;. • physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, distributed denial of service, or DDoS, penetration attacks, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; and. • telecommunications failures, power outages, pandemics, political unrest, malicious human acts and natural disasters.. Improving the reliability and redundancy of our systems may be expensive, reduce our margins and may not be successful in preventing system failures. Our services are also substantially dependent on systems provided by third parties, over whom we have little control. We have occasionally experienced interruptions to our services due to system failures unrelated to our own systems. Any disruption to our data centers, interruptions or failures of our current systems or our ability to communicate with third party systems could negatively affect the demand for our services and our ability to grow our revenue. Although we carry specific insurance against cybersecurity events, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to compensate us for any related losses we incur.. We are implementing a new ecommerce marketplace and back-office solution as part of our LiquidityOne Transformation initiative in order to upgrade the information technology systems used to operate our business and replace them with cloud-based solutions. Our new ecommerce marketplace and back-office solution will be integrated with our new Enterprise Resource Planning (\"ERP\") system that we began rolling out across the company in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017 and will continue to roll out during fiscal year 2018.  Upon implementation of the new cloud-based solutions, a large portion of our information technology systems will be comprised mostly of outsourced, cloud-based infrastructure, platform, and software-as-a-service solutions not under our direct management or control. Any disruption to either the outsourced systems or the communication links between us and the outsourced supplier, could negatively impact our ability to operate our websites or our transaction systems and could impair the services that we provide to our sellers and buyers. We may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions.. In addition, implementation of the LiquidityOne Transformation Initiative and integration of our new ecommerce marketplace and back-office solution with our new ERP system will require substantial changes to our software and network infrastructure, which could lead to system interruptions, affect our websites and transaction systems and further expose us to operational disruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. If we do not respond to rapid technological changes or upgrade our systems, we could fail to grow our business and our revenue could decrease.. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our ecommerce business through initiatives like the LiquidityOne Transformation initiative. Although we currently do not have specific plans for any upgrades that would require significant capital investment beyond the LiquidityOne Transformation initiative, in the future we will need to improve and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure in order to allow our operations to grow in both size and scope. Without such improvements, our operations might suffer from unanticipated system disruptions, slow transaction processing, unreliable service levels, or impaired quality or delays in reporting accurate financial information, any of which could negatively affect our reputation and ability to attract and retain sellers and buyers. We may also face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements. The Internet and the ecommerce industry are rapidly changing. If competitors introduce new products and services using new technologies or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing websites and our proprietary technology and systems may become obsolete. In addition, the expansion and improvement of our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources, with no assurance our business will increase. If we fail to respond to technological change or to adequately maintain, expand, upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure in a timely fashion our ability to grow could be limited and our revenue could decrease.. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our LiquidityOne Transformation initiative.. We expect our LiquidityOne Transformation initiative will significantly increase our efficiency and productivity, the functionality of our marketplaces and our cross-selling opportunities, as well as decrease the cost of our systems infrastructure, all of which we expect will drive scale and growth for our company and have a positive effect on our business, competitive position and results of operations. This initiative is a major undertaking spanning multiple years that will replace many of our existing operating and financial systems. This complex, multifaceted and extensive initiative may result in material unanticipated problems and expenses.  If our new systems do not operate as expected, we may have to incur significant additional costs to modify them.  We cannot assure you that the LiquidityOne Transformation initiative will be beneficial to the extent or within the timeframes expected, or that the estimated efficiency, cost savings and other improvements will be realized as anticipated or at all. If the LiquidityOne Transformation initiative is not implemented successfully and within budget, or if the changes, including the new ERP system do not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could disrupt or otherwise materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Similarly, if our buyers and sellers fail to accept our new platform or our new unified process for handling the transactions on all of our marketplaces, it could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our LiquidityOne Transformation initiative places a significant strain on our management, operational, financial and other resources.. As part of the LiquidityOne Transformation initiative, we are replacing multiple non-scalable legacy IT platforms with a singular, modular technology platform with key modules for unified management of sellers and buyers, property handling, transaction processing and finance functions across our entire company. The new platform is designed to provide our buyers access to all the property available in all our marketplaces, provide a common account experience for sellers, harmonize, simplify and streamline our operations. This program is placing significant strain on our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance and financial resources and internal financial control and reporting function. The LiquidityOne Transformation initiative requires management time and resources to educate employees and implement new ways of conducting business. We may not be able to effectively manage this initiative, including its timing, costs, and adoption by sellers and buyers, which could negatively affect our business and our operating results, as well as result in damage to our reputation and our prospects. In addition, the dedication of resources to the LiquidityOne Transformation initiative limits the resources we have available to devote to other initiatives or growth opportunities, or to invest in the maintenance of our internal systems. Further, the timing of completion of various remaining phases of marketplace rollouts on to the new LiquidityOne platform could be delayed, resulting in higher costs during the implementation and greater strain on management time and resources.. We may need additional financing in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.. We may need additional funds to finance our operations, as well as to enhance our services, and acquire inventory for our businesses, fund initiatives such as the LiquidityOne Transformation initiative, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or otherwise support our growth. We may also require additional funds if vendors and other third parties from whom we purchase inventory, other goods or services extend less favorable credit terms to us. Our business may not generate the cash needed to finance such requirements. We currently do not have a credit facility with third-party lenders from which we may draw funds. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced, and these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. The general economic and capital market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world can deteriorate significantly, adversely affecting access to capital and increasing the cost of capital. A large degree of uncertainty remains both domestically and abroad, which can adversely impact access to capital, and the cost of capital. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to enhance our services, fund strategic initiatives, respond to competitive pressures, take advantage of business opportunities or grow our business would be limited, and we might need to restrict our operations and initiatives.. Shipment of merchandise sold in our marketplaces could be delayed or disrupted by factors beyond our control and we could lose buyers and sellers as a result.. We rely upon third-party carriers such as United Parcel Services, or UPS, for timely delivery of our merchandise shipments. As a result, we are subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond our control, including labor difficulties, inclement weather, terrorist activity and increased fuel costs. In addition, we do not have a long-term agreement with UPS or any other third party carriers, and we cannot be sure that our relationship with UPS will continue on terms favorable to us, if at all. If our relationship with UPS is terminated or impaired or if UPS is unable to deliver merchandise for us, we would be required to use alternative carriers for the shipment of products to our buyers. We may be unable to engage alternative carriers on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, if at all. Potential adverse consequences include:. • reduced visibility of order status and package tracking;. • delays in merchandise receipt and delivery;. • increased cost of shipment; and. • reduced shipment quality, which may result in damaged merchandise.. Any failure to receive merchandise at our distribution centers or deliver products to our buyers in a timely and accurate manner could lead to seller or buyer dissatisfaction and cause us to lose sellers and buyers.. A significant interruption in the operations of our buyer and seller support service system or our distribution centers could harm our business and operating results.. Our business depends, to a large degree, on effective support services to our buyers and sellers, and on effective distribution center operations. We currently staff DoD warehouse distribution space, for which we do not incur leasing costs, as well as leased commercial warehouse distribution space. These operations could be harmed by several factors, including any material disruption or slowdown at our distribution centers resulting from labor disputes, changes in the terms of our underlying lease agreements or occupancy arrangements in the case of government provided facilities, telecommunications. failures, power or service outages, human error, terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other events. In addition, space provided to us by the DoD could be re-configured or reduced in the DoD's discretion.. If we fail to accurately predict our ability to sell merchandise in which we take inventory risk and credit risk, our margins may decline as a result of lower sale prices from such merchandise.. Under our purchase transaction model, we purchase merchandise and assume the risk that the merchandise may sell for less than we paid for it. We assume general and physical inventory and credit risk. These risks are especially significant because some of the goods we sell on our websites are characterized by rapid technological change, obsolescence and price erosion, and because we sometimes make large purchases of particular types of inventory. In addition, we do not typically receive warranties on the surplus goods we purchase and, as a result, we have to resell or dispose of any returned goods. Historically, the number of disposed goods (which includes returned goods that we have not resold) has been less than 2% of the goods we have purchased. To manage our inventory successfully, we need to maintain sufficient buyer demand and sell merchandise for a reasonable financial return. We may overpay for the acquired merchandise if we miscalculate buyer demand or the acquired merchandise has defects of which we were unaware. In the event that merchandise is not attractive to our buyer base, we may be required to take significant losses resulting from lower sale prices, which could reduce our revenue and margins. Currency exchange rates may negatively affect our results if we pay for inventory using a different currency than we receive when we sell the inventory. Declines in commodity prices may also reduce the profit we are able to realize in our scrap business. For example, we may not be able to sell our inventory for amounts above its cost and we may incur a loss in products we handle for our commercial sellers.. From time to time, in our capital assets marketplace, we make very significant inventory acquisitions, such as the purchase of semi-conductor equipment and biopharma and metal-working machinery, for subsequent resale on our energy and industrial marketplaces. We plan to continue to opportunistically make such acquisitions. The risks described above are heightened in connection with these acquisitions due to their size and, at times, the limited market for the assets we acquire. If we obtain financing to fund such acquisitions, such financing will increase our costs, which will decrease any profits we receive from the sale of the acquired assets.. As we grow our business, we may choose to increase the amount of merchandise we purchase directly from sellers, thus resulting in increased inventory levels and related risk. Any such increase would require the use of additional working capital and subject us to the additional risk of incurring losses on the sale of that inventory.. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could harm our reputation and negatively impact the growth of our business.. We regard our intellectual property, particularly domain names, copyrights and trade secrets, as critical to our success. We rely on a combination of contractual restrictions and copyright and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights, know-how, information and technology. Despite these protections, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization or independently develop similar intellectual property.. We currently are the registered owners of several Internet domain names, including www.liquidation.com, www.govliquidation.com, www.govdeals.com, www.networkintl.com, www.secondipity.com, www.go-dove.com, www.irondirect.com, and www.auctiondeals.com. We pursue the registration of our domain names in the U.S. and internationally. We currently do not have any patents or registered copyrights, but we are pursuing patents. Effective patent, copyright, trademark, service mark, trade secret and domain name protection is expensive to maintain and may require litigation. Our competitors may adopt trade names or domain names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to promote our marketplaces and possibly leading to buyer or seller confusion. In addition, we could face trade name, trademark or service mark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered or unregistered trademarks or service marks, including trademarks or service marks that may incorporate variations of our marketplace names. Any claims related to our intellectual property or confusion related to our marketplaces could damage our reputation and negatively impact the growth of our business.. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our business reorganization.. We expect our business reorganization (see Note 14 - Business Realignment Expenses) will significantly decrease our costs and improve our operating results by, among other things, streamlining our management function, consolidating our U.S. buyer and seller support service operations, consolidating corporate and warehouse facilities and centralizing our procurement activities. We cannot assure you that our business reorganization will be beneficial to the extent or within the timeframes expected, or that the estimated cost savings and operational efficiencies will be realized as anticipated or at all.   Difficulties may arise in the implementation of these initiatives and, as a result, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and synergies that we expect.  For example, as part of our business reorganization, we relocated our corporate headquarters to less expensive office space and expect to consolidate additional facilities.  If we are not able to terminate without penalty leases for. facilities we no longer occupy or successfully sublet such facilities, we will incur additional expense which will negatively impact our operating results.. If we fail to successfully identify, finance and integrate acquisitions, our future operating results may be materially adversely affected.. We have expanded our business in part through acquisitions and may continue to do so in the future. The success in any future growth strategy involving acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify, and the availability of, suitable acquisition candidates. We may incur costs in the preliminary stages of an acquisition, but may ultimately be unable or unwilling to consummate the proposed transaction for various reasons. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including our ability to successfully integrate the acquired businesses and operations with our other businesses and fully realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. If we are not able to achieve these objectives in a cost-effective and timely manner, we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or it may take us longer to realize the benefits of the acquisition than we expect. Acquired operations outside the U.S. may present unique challenges or increase our exposure to risks associated with foreign operations, including foreign currency risks and risks associated with local regulatory regimes.. The integration process could result in the loss of key employees, buyers, sellers or other vendors, increase our operating or other costs, decrease our profit margins or disrupt our other businesses, each of which could impair our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our efforts to integrate acquired businesses will divert management's attention and resources from our other businesses. Any failure to timely realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses and operating results.. Acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, one-time write-offs of goodwill and substantial amortization expenses of other intangible assets. We may be unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, if necessary to finance future acquisitions, making it impossible or more costly to acquire other businesses. If we are able to obtain financing, the terms may be onerous and restrict our operations. Further, certain acquisitions may be subject to regulatory approval, which can be time-consuming and costly to obtain, and the terms of such regulatory approvals may impose limitations on our ongoing operations or require us to divest assets or lines of business.. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future, which could cause volatility in our stock price.. Our prior operating results have fluctuated due to changes in our business and the ecommerce industry. Similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include the following:. • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing buyers, attract new buyers and satisfy buyer demands;. • our ability to retain and expand our base of sellers;. • entry into, or the modification, termination or expiration of, material contracts;. • the volume, size, timing and completion rate of transactions in our marketplaces, including variability due to the timing of large, project based activities;. • changes in the supply and demand for and the volume, price, mix and quality of our supply of surplus and salvage assets;. • introduction of new or enhanced websites, services or product offerings by us or our competitors, which may impact our margins;. • implementation costs of significant new contracts;. • changes in the volume and type of value-added services we provide to the DoD or other buyers and sellers;. • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors;. • changes in the conditions and economic prospects of the ecommerce industry or the economy generally, which could alter current or prospective buyers' and sellers' priorities;. • impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets;. • technical difficulties, including telecommunication system or Internet failures;. • changes in government regulation of the Internet and ecommerce industry;. • the extent to which use of our services is affected by spyware, viruses, phishing and other spam emails, denial of service attacks, data theft, computer intrusions, outages and similar events;. • event-driven disruptions such as war, terrorism, armed hostilities, disease and natural disasters;. • changes in energy and commodities prices, including the timing and speed of recovery in energy sector macro conditions;. • seasonal patterns in selling and purchasing activity;. • costs related to acquisitions of technology or equipment; and. • rising health care insurance costs.. Our operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts and investors in some future periods. If this occurs, even temporarily, it could cause volatility in our stock price.. Our inability to use software licensed from third parties or our use of open source software under license terms that interfere with our proprietary rights could disrupt our business.. We use software licensed from third parties, including some open-source software that we use without charge. We currently use, among others, the following licensed or open-source software: Microsoft Azure, Microsoft SQL Database, Amazon Web Services, Solr Search Engine, HARPROXY Load Balancer, The .net Framework, Linux (an operating system); MySQL (database software); PERL (an interpreter); Apache (a web server); Java; Liferay (content management system); Mule (enterprise service bus); ActiveMQ (message queue); Tomcat (application container); Chef (infrastructure automation); and Jenkins (code deployment), and we may in the future use additional open-source software. In the future, these licenses to third party software may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all.. As described above, we currently rely on third parties to provide cloud-based services. Upon completion of our LiquidityOne Transformation initiative, we will rely to a greater degree on outsourced, cloud-based, platform as a service solution not under our direct management or control.. Our inability to use third-party software or to enter into agreements on acceptable terms with providers of cloud-based solutions could result in disruptions to our business, or delays in the development of future services or enhancements of existing services, which could impair our business. In addition, the terms of certain open source software licenses may require us to provide modified versions of the open source software, which we develop, if any, or any proprietary software that incorporates all or a portion of the open source software, if any, to others on unfavorable license terms that are consistent with the open source license term. If we are required to license our proprietary software in accordance with the foregoing, our competitors and other third parties could obtain access to our intellectual property, which could harm our business.. Assertions that we infringe on intellectual property rights of others could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results.. Other parties may assert that we have infringed on their technology or other intellectual property rights. We use internally developed systems and licensed technology to operate our online auction platform and related websites. Third parties could assert intellectual property infringement claims against us based on our internally developed systems or use of licensed third party technology. Third parties also could assert intellectual property infringement claims against parties from whom we license technology. If we are forced to defend against any infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, we may face costly litigation, diversion of technical and management personnel and/or delays in completion of sales. Furthermore, the outcome of a dispute may be that we would need to change technology, develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. A switch to different technology could cause interruptions in our business. Internal development of a non-infringing technology may be expensive and time-consuming, if we are able to successfully develop such technology at all. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Incurrence of any of these costs could negatively impact our operating results.. If we do not retain our senior management and other key personnel, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives.. Our future success, including our ability to implement successfully the LiquidityOne transformation initiative is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly William P. Angrick, III, our chief executive officer. We do not have key-person insurance on any of our officers or employees. The loss of any member of our existing senior management team could damage key seller relationships, result in the loss of key information, expertise or know-how, lead to unanticipated recruitment and training costs and make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and achieve our business goals. Further, the loss of any of our key personnel involved in the implementation of the LiquidityOne Transformation initiative may cause delays in, or otherwise impair, the successful implementation of the program.. If we are unable to attract and retain skilled employees, our business may be harmed.. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly employees with sales, marketing, operations and technology expertise. Competition for employees in our industry is intense. We have experienced difficulty from time to time in attracting the personnel necessary to support the growth of our business, and we may experience similar difficulties in the future. If we are unable to attract, assimilate and retain employees with the. necessary skills, we may not be able to grow our business and revenue as expected and we could experience increased turnover, decreased levels of buyer and seller service, low morale, inefficiency or internal control failures.. The seasonality of our business places increased strain on our operations.. We have seasonality in each portion of our business. We expect a disproportionate amount of transactions on our marketplaces to occur at certain times during the year. If we are unable to effectively manage increased demand, or the increased flow of goods that we typically experience during these times, it could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. If too many buyers and sellers access our websites within a short period of time due to increased demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from providing efficient service, which may reduce our GMV and the attractiveness of our value-added services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our distribution centers during these peak periods.. Our international operations expose us to a number of risks.. Our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits, and we may continue to expand internationally, including through acquisitions, organic growth and through joint ventures or strategic alliances with third parties. It is costly to establish, develop, and maintain international operations and websites, and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not be profitable on a sustained basis. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including:. • local economic and political conditions, or civil unrest that may disrupt economic activity in affected countries;. • government regulation of ecommerce and other services, competition, and restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs), nationalization, and restrictions on foreign ownership;. • restrictions on sales or distribution of certain products or services and uncertainty regarding liability for products and services, including uncertainty as a result of less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack of legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the enforcement of intellectual property rights;. • business licensing or certification requirements, such as for imports, exports, and web services;. • limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions;. • shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact on cash flow;. • laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, privacy, network security, encryption, payments, and restrictions on pricing or discounts;. • lower levels of consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared to the U.S.;. • lower levels of credit card usage and increased payment risk;. • different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils;. • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable U.S. and foreign laws prohibiting certain payments to government officials and other third parties;. • laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, and taxes; and. • geopolitical events, including war and terrorism.. If we expand internationally through joint ventures or strategic alliances, we will also face counterparty risk in addition to the risks described above. If any counterparty to our joint ventures or strategic alliances is unwilling or unable to perform its obligations to us for any reason, we may not realize the benefits of such arrangements and we may experience material unanticipated problems, expenses and liabilities.. Our operations are subject to extensive anti-corruption laws and regulations.. Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws. These laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, or obtaining an unfair advantage. Global enforcement of these laws has increased substantially in recent years. Violations of anti-corruption laws or regulations by our employees or by intermediaries acting on our behalf may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt our business, and result in an adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations or financial condition.. We face legal uncertainties relating to the Internet in general and to the ecommerce industry in particular and may become subject to costly government regulation.. The laws and regulations related to the Internet and ecommerce are evolving. These laws and regulations relate to issues such as user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual. property rights and information security. Laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity and personal privacy could also affect our business. Laws adopted prior to the advent of the Internet may not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies and it is not clear how they will apply. Current and future laws and regulations could increase our cost of doing business and/or decrease the demand for our services.. Our auction business may be subject to a variety of additional costly government regulations.. Many states and other jurisdictions have regulations governing the conduct of traditional \"auctions\" and the liability of traditional \"auctioneers\" in conducting auctions, as well as the handling of property by \"secondhand dealers\", which may apply to online auction services. In addition, certain states have laws or regulations that expressly apply to online auction services. We expect to continue to incur costs in complying with these laws and could be subject to fines or other penalties for any failure to comply with these laws. We may be required to make changes in our business to comply with these laws, which could increase our costs, reduce our revenue, cause us to prohibit the listing of certain items or restrict certain listing formats in some locations, or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or operating results.. In addition, the law regarding the potential liability of an online auction service for the activities of its users is not clear. Users of our websites may not always comply with our terms and conditions or with laws and regulations applicable to them and their transactions. It is possible that we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for any unlawful activities conducted by sellers or buyers. Any costs we incur as a result of any such allegations, or as a result of actual or alleged unlawful transactions using our marketplaces, or in our efforts to prevent any such transactions, may harm our opportunities for future revenue growth. In addition, any negative publicity we receive regarding any such transactions or allegations may damage our reputation, our ability to attract new sellers and buyers and our business.. Certain categories of merchandise sold on our marketplaces are subject to government restrictions.. We sell merchandise, such as scientific instruments, information technology equipment and aircraft parts, that is subject to export control and economic sanctions laws, among other laws, imposed by the United States and other governments. Such restrictions include the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, and economic sanctions and embargo laws administered by the Office of the Foreign Assets Control Regulations. These restrictions prohibit us from, among other things, selling property to (1) persons or entities that appear on lists of restricted or prohibited parties maintained by the United States or other governments or (2) countries, regimes, or nationals that are the target of applicable economic sanctions or other embargoes. In addition, for specified categories of property we purchase under our vendor contracts with the DoD for resale, we are required to (1) obtain an end-use certificate from the prospective buyer describing the nature of the buyer's business, describing the expected disposition and specific end-use of the property, and acknowledging the applicability of pertinent export control and economic sanctions laws and (2) confirm that each buyer has been cleared to purchase export-controlled items.. We may incur significant costs or be required to modify our business to comply with these requirements. If we are alleged to have violated any of these laws or regulations we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety are made against us, whether or not true.. We are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information.. We retain highly confidential information on behalf of our buyers and sellers in our systems and databases. Although we maintain security features in our systems that are designed to protect user information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security and our operations may be susceptible to breaches, including from circumvention of security systems, denial of service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, computer viruses or malware, technical malfunction, employee error, malfeasance, physical breaches, system disruptions or other disruptions. These disruptions may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our systems. An increasing number of websites, including those owned by several other large Internet and offline companies, have disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their websites or infrastructure. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable, or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently, may be difficult to detect for a long time, and often are not recognized until launched against a target. Certain efforts may be state sponsored and supported by significant financial and technological resources and therefore may be even more difficult to detect. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. As the Department of Defense is one of our sellers, our systems may be especially targeted by such malicious attackers. We currently expend, and may be required to expend significant additional capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand our. operations. Any breach of our security measures, or even a perceived breach of our security measures, could cause us to lose sellers or buyers, suffer material harm to our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation or be subject to regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard our sellers' and buyers' information. Further, the loss of confidential seller or buyer information could also expose us to the risk of liability and costly litigation. In addition, if there is any perception that we cannot protect our users' confidential information, we may lose the ability to retain existing, and attract new, sellers and buyers, and our revenue could decline.. If we fail to comply with increasing levels of regulation relating to privacy, our business could suffer harm.. We are subject to regulation at the federal, state and international levels relating to privacy and the use of third-party data, including personal user information and employee data. These statutory and regulatory requirements are evolving, increasing in complexity and number, and may change significantly. How companies collect, process, use, store, share or transmit personal and employee data is subject to increasing scrutiny by governments as well as the public, which could influence the adoption of legislation or regulation. New statutory or regulatory developments may restrict our ability to collect and use demographic and personal information from our buyers and our sellers, which could be costly or harm our marketing efforts. Further, there may be conflicts among the privacy and data protections laws adopted by the various countries in which we operate. Judicial and regulatory application and interpretation of these statutory and regulatory requirements are often uncertain and may also limit our marketing efforts. Compliance with regulations regarding privacy, security and protection of user and employee data, increased government or private enforcement, and changing public attitudes about data privacy, may increase the cost of growing our business and require us to expend significant capital and other resources. Our failure to comply with these federal, state and international laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits, fines, criminal penalties, statutory damages, adverse publicity and other costs which could decrease our profitability.. We may be subject to product liability claims if people or property are harmed by the products we sell.. Some of the products we sell through our ecommerce marketplaces or through our IronDirect business may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or environmental or property damage, and may be the subject of product recalls or other actions. Our exposure to product liability claims may be increased by the fact that we sell products manufactured by third parties. For example, if the manufacturers do not have sufficient protection from such claims, we may be subject to claims relating to the products in question. Defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, may result in monetary liabilities or penalties, and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our agreements with our vendors and sellers do not indemnify us from product liability.. If one or more states successfully assert that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our merchandise or the merchandise of third parties that we offer for sale on our websites, our business could be harmed.. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value-added tax (\"VAT\"), goods and services tax, business tax and gross receipt tax) to ecommerce businesses is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the adoption and growth of the Internet and ecommerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or ecommerce. In addition, governments around the world are increasingly looking for ways to increase revenues, which has resulted in discussions about tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenues, including through indirect taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.. We are currently required to collect and remit sales taxes in all states for shipment of goods from our DoD vendor contracts. We also collect and remit sales or other similar taxes in respect of shipments of other goods into states in which we have a substantial presence. In addition, as we grow our business, any new operation in states in which we currently do not collect and remit sales taxes could subject shipments into such states to state sales taxes under current or future laws.. U.S. Supreme Court decisions restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states have adopted or are considering laws that levy additional taxes on Internet access and electronic commerce transactions. Congress is also considering legislation allowing states to require out-of-state sellers to collect sales and use taxes for ecommerce transactions. It is not possible to predict with any degree of certainty the outcome of these initiatives or the impact of these initiatives on our business and marketing strategies that we are considering or may consider in the future.. An unfavorable change in U.S. Supreme Court guidance related to sales tax, or a successful assertion by one or more jurisdictions that our sale of merchandise in such jurisdiction is subject to sales or other taxes may result in material tax liabilities, interest and penalties. A change in state or federal laws, or our business model, business strategy, or marketing initiatives may require us to collect sales tax on transactions in which we do not currently collect such tax. These developments,. should they occur, may result in a decrease in future sales, may decrease our ability to compete, increase our compliance costs or otherwise harm our business.. Similar issues exist outside of the United States, where the application of VAT or other indirect taxes on ecommerce providers is complex and evolving. On January 1, 2015, changes to the rules determining the place of supply (and thus the country of taxation) for all European Union based providers of electronically supplied services were implemented that require that we pay VAT based on the residence or normal place of business of our buyers. These changes may result in our paying a higher rate of VAT or VAT on a higher number of transactions. Additionally, we pay input VAT on applicable taxable purchases within the various countries in which we operate. In most cases, we are entitled to reclaim this input VAT from the various countries. However, the application of the laws and rules that allow such reclamation is sometimes uncertain. A successful assertion by one or more countries that we are not entitled to reclaim VAT could harm our business. In certain jurisdictions, we collect and remit indirect taxes on our fees and pay taxes on our purchases of goods and services. However, tax authorities may raise questions about our calculation, reporting and collection of taxes and may ask us to remit additional taxes, as well as the proper calculation of such taxes. Should any new taxes become applicable or if the taxes we pay are found to be deficient, our business could be harmed.. Fraudulent activities involving our websites and disputes relating to transactions on our websites may cause us to lose sellers and buyers and adversely affect our ability to grow our business.. We are aware that other companies operating online auction or liquidation services have periodically received complaints of fraudulent activities of buyers or sellers on their websites, including disputes over the quality of goods and services, unauthorized use of credit card and bank account information and identity theft, potential breaches of system security, and infringement of third-party copyrights, trademarks and trade names or other intellectual property rights. We may receive similar complaints if our sellers or buyers trading in our marketplaces are alleged to have engaged in fraudulent or unlawful activity. In addition, we may suffer losses as a result of purchases paid for with fraudulent credit card data even though the associated financial institution approved payment. In the case of disputed transactions, we may not be able to require users of our services to fulfill their obligations to make payments or to deliver goods. We also may receive complaints from buyers about the quality of purchased goods, requests for reimbursement, or communications threatening or commencing legal actions against us. Negative publicity generated as a result of fraudulent conduct by third parties or the failure to satisfactorily settle disputes related to transactions on our websites could damage our reputation, cause us to lose sellers and buyers and adversely affect our ability to grow our business.. False or defamatory statements transmitted through our services could harm our reputation and affect our ability to attract sellers and buyers.. The law relating to the liability of online services companies for information carried on or disseminated through their services is currently unsettled. Claims could be made against online services companies under both the U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through their services. Our website allows users to make comments regarding the online auction industry in general and other users and their merchandise in particular. Although all such comments are generated by users and not by us, we are aware that claims of defamation or other injury have been made against other companies operating auction services in the past and could be made in the future against us for comments made by users. If we are held liable for information provided by our users and carried on our service, we could be directly harmed and may be forced to implement measures to reduce our liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources or discontinue certain service offerings, which could negatively affect our operating results. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation and affect our ability to attract sellers and buyers.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report a report containing management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not such internal controls are effective. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, significant costs and the commitment of time and operational resources. The LiquidityOne Transformation initiative, as well as other changes in our business, including initiatives to invest in information systems or to transition particular functions to third party providers, will necessitate modifications to our internal controls. We cannot be certain that our current design for internal control over financial reporting, or any changes to be made, will be sufficient to enable management to determine that our internal controls are effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected, and seller and buyer perception of our business may suffer.. Our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or third parties with whom we work. Internal controls may become less effective over time as a result of, among other things, changes in conditions, failures to comply with our policies and procedures or new business that strains our system of internal controls.. Changes in accounting and reporting policies or practices may affect our financial results, which may affect our stock price.. Our accounting policies are fundamental to determining and understanding our financial results and condition. Some of these policies require our management to use estimates and make subjective and complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Factors may arise over time that lead us to change our estimates and judgments. In some cases, our management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in us reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Any changes in accounting policies or methods could reduce our net income, which reductions may be independent of changes in our operations. These reductions in reported net income could cause our stock price to decline. For example, our operating results for the fourth quarter, and full fiscal year 2016 were affected by our recording of a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets and by our recording of an impairment of goodwill.. The success of our business depends on our ability to market quality products that meet our buyers' needs.. Our business relies on continued demand for the products we offer. To compete effectively, we must offer products that appeal to our buyers. This is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to acquire products that meet the quality, performance and price expectations of our buyers and our ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing programs. Failure to continue to offer competitive products to the marketplace, to supply products that meet applicable regulatory requirements, or to predict market demands for, or gain market acceptance of, such products, could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our stock price has been volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value.. The worldwide financial crisis led to an increase in the overall volatility of the stock market. Despite improved stock market performance, the increased volatility and other broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Other factors that could cause fluctuation in our stock price may include:. • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results;. • changes in financial estimates by us or by a securities analyst who covers our stock;. • publication of research reports about our company or industry;. • conditions or trends in our industry;. • stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those whose business involves the Internet and ecommerce;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts (or the amendment or loss of such contracts), acquisitions, commercial relationships, strategic partnerships or divestitures;. • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements;. • announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us;. • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us, our sellers or buyers, or our industry;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers or specific stockholders; and. • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets.. Volatility in the market price of shares may prevent investors from being able to sell their shares of common stock at prices they view as attractive. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources.. Some provisions of our charter, bylaws and Delaware law inhibit potential acquisition bids that you may consider favorable.. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that may enable our board of directors to resist a change in control of our company even if a change in control were to be considered favorable by you and other stockholders. These provisions include:. • a staggered board of directors;. • a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent;. • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders;. • the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval;. • advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders; and. • the requirement that board vacancies be filled by a majority of our directors then in office.. These provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. In addition, our bylaws provide that the Delaware Court of Chancery will be the exclusive forum for certain types of legal action (or, if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, another state court or a federal court within Delaware). This provision may make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to challenge certain corporate actions we take."
