[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations.. Risks related to our business. The automotive retail industry is sensitive to changing economic conditions and various other factors. Our business and results of operations are substantially dependent on new vehicle sales levels in the United States and in our particular geographic markets and the level of gross profit margins that we can achieve on our sales of new vehicles, all of which are very difficult to predict.. Our business is heavily dependent on consumer demand and preferences. A downturn in overall levels of consumer spending may materially and adversely affect our revenues and gross profit margins. Retail vehicle sales are cyclical and historically have experienced periodic downturns characterized by weak demand. These cycles are often dependent on general economic conditions and consumer confidence, as well as the level of discretionary personal income and credit availability. Economic conditions may be anemic for an extended period of time, or deteriorate in the future. This would have a material adverse effect on our retail business, particularly sales of new and used automobiles.. In addition, our performance is subject to local economic, competitive and other conditions prevailing in our various geographic areas. Our dealerships are currently located in limited markets in 18 states, with sales in the top three states accounting for 52% of our revenue in 2017. Our results of operations, therefore, depend substantially on general economic conditions, consumer spending levels and other factors in those markets and could be materially adversely affected to the extent these markets experience sustained economic downturns regardless of improvements in the U.S. economy overall.. Historically, in times of rapid increase in crude oil and fuel prices, sales of vehicles have dropped, particularly in the short term, as the economy slows, consumer confidence wanes and fuel costs become more prominent to the consumer's buying decision. In sustained periods of higher fuel costs, consumers who do purchase vehicles tend to prefer smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles (which typically have lower margins) or hybrid vehicles (which can be in limited supply during these periods). A significant portion of our new vehicle revenue and gross profit is derived from domestic manufacturers. These manufacturers have historically sold a higher percentage of trucks and SUVs than import or luxury brands. They may, therefore, experience a more significant decline in sales in the event that fuel prices increase.. Approximately 17.1 million, 17.5 million, and 17.4 million new vehicles were sold in the United States in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Certain industry analysts have predicted that new vehicle sales will decline below 17 million for 2018. If new vehicle production exceeds the rate at which new vehicles are sold, our gross profit per vehicle could be adversely affected by this excess and any resulting changes in manufacturer incentive and marketing programs. See the risk factor \"If manufacturers or distributors discontinue or change sales incentives, warranties and other promotional programs, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially adversely affected\" below. Economic conditions and the other factors described above may also materially adversely impact our sales of used vehicles, parts and repair and maintenance services, and automotive finance and insurance products.. Natural disasters and adverse weather conditions can disrupt our business.. Our dealerships are in states and regions in the U.S. in which actual or threatened natural disasters and severe weather events (such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods, landslides, wind and/or hail storms) or other extraordinary events have in the past, and may in the future, disrupt our dealership operations and impair the value of our dealership property. A disruption in our operations may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to business interruption, the automotive retailing business is subject to substantial risk of property loss due to the significant concentration of property at dealership locations. The exposure on any single claim under our property and casualty insurance, medical insurance and workers' compensation insurance varies based upon type of coverage.  Our maximum exposure on any single claim is $5.5 million, subject to certain aggregate limit thresholds.. The automotive manufacturing supply chain spans the globe. As such, supply chain disruptions resulting from natural disasters and adverse weather events may affect the flow of inventory or parts to us or our manufacturing partners.. 11. Such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. Increasing competition among automotive retailers reduces our profit margins on vehicle sales and related businesses. Further, the use of the Internet in the car purchasing process could materially adversely affect us.. Automobile retailing is a highly competitive business. Our competitors include publicly and privately-owned dealerships, of which certain competitors are larger and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Many of our competitors sell the same or similar makes of new and used vehicles that we offer in our markets at competitive prices. We do not have any cost advantage in purchasing new vehicles from manufacturers due to the volume of purchases or otherwise.. Our finance and insurance business and other related businesses, which have higher margins than sales of new and used vehicles, are subject to strong competition from various financial institutions and others.. The Internet has become a significant part of the sales process in our industry. Customers are using the Internet to compare pricing for vehicles and related finance and insurance services, which may further reduce margins for new and used vehicles and profits for related finance and insurance services. If Internet new vehicle sales are allowed to be conducted without the involvement of franchised dealers, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, other franchise groups have aligned themselves with services offered on the Internet or are investing heavily in the development of their own Internet capabilities, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our Franchise Agreements do not grant us the exclusive right to sell a manufacturer's product within a given geographic area. Our revenues or profitability could be materially adversely affected if any of our manufacturers award franchises to others in the same markets where we operate or if existing franchised dealers increase their market share in our markets.. In addition, we may face increasingly significant competition as we strive to gain market share through acquisitions or otherwise. Our operating margins may decline over time as we expand into markets where we do not have a leading position.. Changes to the automotive industry and consumer views on car ownership could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The automotive industry is predicted to experience rapid change in the years to come, including increases in ride-sharing services, advances in electric vehicle production and driverless technology. Ride-sharing services such as Uber and Lyft provide consumers with mobility options outside of the traditional car ownership and lease alternatives. The overall impact of these options on the automotive industry is uncertain, and may include lower levels of new vehicle sales. Manufacturers continue to invest in increasing production and quality of AEVs (all-electric vehicles), which generally require less maintenance than traditional cars and trucks. The effects of AEVs on the automotive industry are uncertain and may include reduced parts and service revenues, as well as changes in the level of sales of certain F&I products such as extended warranty and lifetime lube, oil and filter contracts. Technological advances are also facilitating the development of driverless vehicles. The eventual timing of availability of driverless vehicles is uncertain due to regulatory requirements, technological hurdles, and uncertain consumer acceptance of these technologies. The effect of driverless vehicles on the automotive industry is uncertain and could include changes in the level of new and used vehicle sales, the price of new vehicles, and the role of franchised dealers, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business.. A decline of available financing in the lending market may adversely affect our vehicle sales volume.. A significant portion of buyers finance their vehicle purchases. One of the primary finance sources used by consumers in connection with the purchase of a new or used vehicle is the manufacturer captive finance company. These captive finance companies rely, to a certain extent, on the public debt markets to provide the capital necessary to support their financing programs. In addition, the captive finance companies will occasionally change their loan underwriting criteria to alter the risk profile of their loan portfolio. In addition, sub-prime lenders have historically provided financing for consumers who, for a variety of reasons, including poor credit histories and lack of down payment, do not have access to more traditional finance sources. If lenders tighten their credit standards or there is a decline in the availability of. 12. credit in the lending market, the ability of  consumers to purchase vehicles could be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Adverse conditions affecting one or more key manufacturers may negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We depend on our manufacturers to provide a supply of vehicles which supports expected sales levels. Events that adversely affect a manufacturer's ability to timely deliver new vehicles may adversely affect us by reducing our supply of popular new vehicles, leading to lower sales in our stores during those periods than would otherwise occur. We depend on our manufacturers to deliver high-quality, defect-free vehicles. If manufacturers experience quality issues, our financial performance may be adversely impacted. In addition, the discontinuance of a particular brand could negatively impact our revenues and profitability.. Vehicle manufacturers would be adversely affected by economic downturns or recessions, adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, significant declines in the sales of their new vehicles, increases in interest rates, declines in their credit ratings, port closures, labor strikes or similar disruptions (including within their major suppliers), supply shortages or rising raw material costs, rising employee benefit costs, adverse publicity that may reduce consumer demand for their products, product defects, vehicle recall campaigns, litigation, poor product mix or unappealing vehicle design, or other adverse events. These and other risks could materially adversely affect any manufacturer and limit its ability to profitably design, market, produce or distribute new vehicles, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We are subject to a concentration of risk in the event of financial distress, including potential reorganization or bankruptcy, of a major vehicle manufacturer. We purchase substantially all of our new vehicles from various manufacturers or distributors at the prevailing prices available to all franchised dealers. Our sales volume could be materially adversely impacted by the manufacturers' or distributors' inability to supply our stores with an adequate supply of vehicles.. In the event of a manufacturer or distributor bankruptcy, we could be held liable for damages related to product liability claims, intellectual property suits or other legal actions. These legal actions are typically directed towards the vehicle manufacturer and it is customary for manufacturers to indemnify us from exposure related to any judgments associated with the claims. However, if damages could not be collected from the manufacturer or distributor, we could be named in lawsuits and judgments could be levied against us.. Many new manufacturers are entering the automotive industry. New companies have raised capital to produce fully electric vehicles or to license battery technology to existing manufacturers. Tesla has demonstrated the ability to successfully introduce electric vehicles to the marketplace. Foreign manufacturers from China and India are producing significant volumes of new vehicles and are entering the U.S. and selecting partners to distribute their products. Because the automotive market in the U.S. is mature and the overall level of new vehicle sales may not increase in the coming years, the success of new competitors will likely be at the expense of other, established brands. This could have a material adverse impact on our success in the future.. Federal regulations around fuel economy standards and \"greenhouse gas\" emissions have continued to increase. New requirements may adversely affect any manufacturer's ability to profitably design, market, produce and distribute vehicles that comply with such regulations. We could be adversely impacted in our ability to market and sell these vehicles at affordable prices and in our ability to finance these inventories. These regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. If manufacturers or distributors discontinue or change sales incentives, warranties and other promotional programs, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. We depend upon the manufacturers and distributors for sales incentives, warranties and other programs that are intended to promote new vehicle sales or supplement dealer income. Manufacturers and distributors routinely make changes to their incentive programs. Key incentive programs include:. • customer rebates;. • dealer incentives on new vehicles;. • special financing rates on certified, pre-owned cars; and. • below-market financing on new vehicles and special leasing terms.. 13. Our financial condition could be materially adversely impacted by a discontinuation or change in our manufacturers' or distributors' incentive programs. In addition, certain manufacturers use criteria such as a dealership's manufacturer-determined customer satisfaction index (\"CSI\" score),  facility image compliance, employee training, digital marketing and parts purchase programs as factors governing participation in incentive programs. To the extent we do not meet minimum score requirements, we may be precluded from receiving certain incentives, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Franchised automotive retailers perform factory authorized service work and sell original replacement parts on vehicles covered by warranties issued by the automotive manufacturer. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 24% of our service, body and parts revenue was for work covered by manufacturer warranties or manufacturer-sponsored maintenance services. To the extent a manufacturer reduces the labor rates or markup of replacement parts for such warranty work, our service, body and parts sales volume could be adversely affected.. The ability of our stores to make new vehicle sales depends in large part upon the manufacturers and, therefore, any disruption or change in our relationships could impact our business.. We depend on the manufacturers to provide us with a desirable mix of new vehicles. The most popular vehicles usually produce the highest profit margins and are frequently in short supply. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of the most popular models, our profitability may be adversely affected. Sales of less desirable models may reduce our profit margins.. Each of our stores operates pursuant to a Franchise Agreement with each of the respective manufacturers for which it serves as franchisee. Each of our stores may obtain new vehicles from manufacturers, service vehicles, sell new vehicles, and display vehicle manufacturers' brand only to the extent permitted under these agreements. As a result of the terms of our Franchise Agreements, manufacturers exert significant control over the day-to-day operations at our stores. Such agreements contain provisions for termination or non-renewal for a variety of causes, including service retention, facility compliance, customer satisfaction and sales and financial performance. From time to time, certain of our stores have failed to comply with certain provisions of their franchise agreements, and we cannot ensure that our stores will be able to comply with these provisions in the future.. Our Franchise Agreements expire at various times, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to renew these agreements on a timely basis or on acceptable terms or at all. Actions taken by a manufacturer to exploit its bargaining position in negotiating the terms of renewals of franchise agreements or otherwise could also have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. If a manufacturer terminates or fails to renew one or more of our significant franchise agreements or a large number of our franchise agreements, such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our Franchise Agreements also specify that, except in certain situations, we cannot operate a franchise by another manufacturer in the same building as the manufacturer's franchised store. This may require us to build new facilities at a significant cost. Moreover, our manufacturers generally require that the store meet defined image standards. These commitments could require us to make significant capital expenditures.. Our Franchise Agreements do not give us the exclusive right to a given geographic area. Manufacturers may be able to establish new franchises or relocate existing franchises, subject to applicable state franchise laws. The establishment of or relocation of franchises in our markets could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of our stores in the market in which the action is taken.. Manufacturer stock ownership requirements and restrictions may impair our ability to maintain or renew franchise agreements or issue additional equity.. Certain of our Franchise Agreements prohibit transfers of ownership interests of a store or, in some cases, the ownership interests of the store's indirect parent companies, including the Company. Agreements with various manufacturers, including, among others, Honda/Acura, Hyundai, Mazda, Volkswagen, Mercedes-Benz, Subaru, Toyota, Ford/Lincoln, GM, and Nissan, provide that, under certain circumstances, we may lose a franchise and/or be forced to sell one or more stores or their assets if there occurs a prohibited transfer of ownership interests (in some cases not defined or defined ambiguously) or a person or entity acquires an ownership interest in us above a specified level (ranging from 20% to 50% depending on the particular manufacturer's restrictions and falling as low as 5% if another vehicle. 14. manufacturer or distributor is the entity acquiring the ownership interest) without the approval of the manufacturer. Transactions in our stock by our stockholders or prospective stockholders, including transactions in our Class B common stock, are generally outside of our control and may result in the termination or non-renewal of one or more of our franchises, may result in a forced sale of one or more of our stores or their assets at a price below fair market value or may impair our ability to negotiate new franchise agreements for dealerships we desire to acquire in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. These restrictions may also prevent or deter a prospective acquirer from acquiring control of us or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock or limit our ability to restructure our debt obligations.. If state dealer laws are repealed or weakened, our dealerships will be more susceptible to termination, non-renewal or renegotiation of their franchise agreements. Additionally, federal bankruptcy law can override protections afforded under state dealer laws.. State dealer laws generally provide that a manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a franchise agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth good cause and stating the grounds for termination or non-renewal. Certain state dealer laws allow dealers to file protests or petitions or attempt to comply with the manufacturer's criteria within the notice period to avoid the termination or non-renewal. If dealer laws are repealed in the states where we operate, manufacturers may be able to terminate our franchises without providing advance notice, an opportunity to cure or a showing of good cause. Without the protection of state dealer laws, it may also be more difficult to renew our franchise agreements upon expiration or on terms acceptable to us.. In addition, these laws restrict the ability of automobile manufacturers to directly enter the retail market in the future. Manufacturer lobbying efforts (including those of Tesla) may lead to the repeal or revision of these laws.  If manufacturers obtain the ability to directly retail vehicles and do so in our markets, such competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. As evidenced by the bankruptcy proceedings of both Chrysler and GM in 2009, state dealer laws do not afford continued protection from manufacturer terminations or non-renewal of franchise agreements. No assurances can be given that a manufacturer will not seek protection under bankruptcy laws, or that, in this event, they will not seek to terminate franchise rights held by us.. Import product restrictions, currency valuations, and foreign trade risks may impair our ability to sell foreign vehicles or parts profitably.. A significant portion of the vehicles we sell are manufactured outside the U.S., and all of the vehicles we sell include parts manufactured outside the U.S.  As a result, our operations are subject to customary risks of importing merchandise, including currency fluctuation, import duties, exchange rates, trade restrictions, work stoppages, transportation costs, natural or man-made disasters, and general political and socio-economic conditions in other countries. The U.S. or the countries from which our products are imported, may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duties or tariffs, which may affect our operations and our ability to purchase imported vehicles and/or parts at reasonable prices. Changes in U.S. trade policies, including the North American Free Trade Agreement or policies intended to penalize foreign manufacturing or imports, and policies of foreign countries in reaction to those changes could increase the prices we pay for some of the new vehicles and parts we sell. Any changes that increase the costs of vehicles and parts generally, to the extent passed on to customers, could negatively affect customer demand and our revenues and profitability. If not passed on to our customers, any cost increases will adversely affect our profitability. Any cost increase that disproportionately applies to manufacturers that sell to us could adversely affect our business compared to other automobile retailers.. Our operations are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations.  If we are found to be in purported violation of or subject to liabilities under any of these laws, or if new laws or regulations are enacted that adversely affect our operations, our business, operating results, and prospects could suffer.. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the eighteen states in which we operate, such as those relating to franchising, motor vehicle sales, retail installment sales, leasing, finance and insurance, marketing, licensing, consumer protection, consumer privacy, escheatment, anti-money laundering, environmental, vehicle emissions and fuel economy, and health and safety.  In addition, with respect to employment practices, we are subject to various laws and regulations, including complex federal, state and local wage and hour and anti-discrimination laws. New laws and regulations are enacted on an ongoing basis. With the number of stores we operate, the number of personnel we employ. 15. and the large volume of transactions we handle, it is likely that technical mistakes will be made. These regulations affect our profitability and require ongoing training. Current practices in stores may become prohibited. We are responsible for ensuring that continued compliance with laws is maintained. If there are unauthorized activities, the state and federal authorities have the power to impose civil penalties and sanctions, suspend or withdraw dealer licenses or take other actions. These actions could materially impair our activities or our ability to acquire new stores in those states where violations occurred. Further, private causes of action on behalf of individuals or a class of individuals could result in significant damages or injunctive relief.. We may be involved in legal proceedings arising from the conduct of our business, including litigation with customers, employee-related lawsuits, class actions, purported class actions and actions brought by governmental authorities. Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law may be asserted against us or any of our dealers by individuals, either individually or through class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings. Such actions may expose us to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief, criminal and civil fines and penalties and damage our reputation and sales.. Our financing activities are subject to federal truth-in-lending, consumer leasing and equal credit opportunity laws and regulations, as well as state and local motor vehicle finance laws, installment finance laws, insurance laws, usury laws and other installment sales laws and regulations. Some states regulate finance, documentation and administrative fees that may be charged in connection with vehicle sales. In recent years, private plaintiffs and state attorneys general in the U.S. have increased their scrutiny of advertising, sales, and finance and insurance activities in the sale and leasing of motor vehicles. These activities have led many lenders to limit the amounts that may be charged to customers as fee income for these activities. If these or similar activities were to significantly restrict our ability to generate revenue from arranging financing for our customers, we could be adversely affected.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the \"CFPB\"), a new independent federal agency funded by the U.S. Federal Reserve with broad regulatory powers and limited oversight from the U.S. Congress. Although automotive dealers are generally excluded, the Dodd-Frank Act has led to additional, indirect regulation of automotive dealers, in particular, their sale and marketing of finance and insurance products, through its regulation of automotive finance companies and other financial institutions.  In March 2013, the CFPB issued supervisory guidance highlighting its concern that the practice of automotive dealers being compensated for arranging customer financing through discretionary markup of wholesale rates offered by financial institutions (\"dealer markup\") results in a significant risk of pricing disparity in violation of The Equal Credit Opportunity Act (the \"ECOA\"). The CFPB recommended that financial institutions under its jurisdiction take steps to ensure compliance with the ECOA, which may include imposing controls on dealer markup, monitoring and addressing the effects of dealer markup policies, and eliminating dealer discretion to markup buy rates and fairly compensating dealers using a different mechanism that does not result in disparate impact to certain groups of consumers.. Our marketing and disclosure regarding the sale and servicing of vehicles is regulated by federal, state and local agencies including the Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\") and state attorneys general. For example, in January 2016, we settled FTC allegations that we did not adequately disclose information about used vehicles with open safety recalls. Under the settlement, we did not make any payments or admit wrong-doing, but we did agree to make specified disclosures on our website and to provide that disclosure to certain customers who had previously purchased a used vehicle from us.. If we or any of our employees at any individual dealership violate or are alleged to violate laws and regulations applicable to them or protecting consumers generally, we could be subject to individual claims or consumer class actions, administrative, civil or criminal investigations or actions and adverse publicity. Such actions could expose us to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and civil fines and penalties, including suspension or revocation of our licenses and franchises to conduct dealership operations.. Environmental laws and regulations govern, among other things, discharges into the air and water, storage of petroleum substances and chemicals, the handling and disposal of wastes and remediation of contamination arising from spills and releases. In addition, we may also have liability in connection with materials that were sent to third-party recycling, treatment and/or disposal facilities under federal and state statutes. These federal and state statutes impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault or the legality of the conduct that contributed to the contamination. Similar to many of our competitors, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with such federal and state statutes. In addition, we may be subject. 16. to broad liabilities arising out of contamination at our currently and formerly owned or operated facilities, at locations to which hazardous substances were transported from such facilities, and at such locations related to entities formerly affiliated with us. Although for some such potential liabilities we believe we are entitled to indemnification from other entities, we cannot assure you that such entities will view their obligations as we do or will be able or willing to satisfy them. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or significant additional expenditures required to maintain compliance therewith, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and prospects.. Breaches in our data security systems or in systems used by our vendor partners, including cyber-attacks or unauthorized data distribution by employees or affiliated vendors, or disruptions to access and connectivity of our information systems could impact our operations or result in the loss or misuse of customers' proprietary information.. Our information technology systems are important to operating our business efficiently. We employ information technology systems, including websites, that allow for the secure handling and processing of customers' proprietary information. The failure of our information technology systems, and those of our partner software and technology vendors, to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability.. We collect, process, and retain personally identifiable information regarding customers, associates and vendors in the normal course of our business. Our internal and third-party systems are under a moderate level of risk from hackers or other individuals with malicious intent to gain unauthorized access to our systems. Cyber-attacks are growing in number and sophistication thus presenting an ongoing threat to systems, whether internal or external, used to operate the business on a day-to-day basis. We invest in reasonable commercial security technology to protect our data and business processes against many of these risks. We also purchase insurance to mitigate the potential financial impact of many of these risks.  Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to security breaches, computer viruses, lost or misplaced data, programming errors, human errors, acts of vandalism, or other events. Any security breach or event resulting in the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, or degradation of services provided by critical business systems, whether by us directly or our third-party service providers, could adversely affect our business operations, sales, reputation with current and potential customers, associates or vendors, as well as other operational and financial impacts derived from investigations, litigation, imposition of penalties or other means.. Our ability to increase revenues and profitability through acquisitions depends on our ability to acquire and successfully integrate additional stores.. General. The U.S. automobile industry is considered a mature industry in which minimal growth is expected in unit sales of new vehicles. Accordingly, a principal component of our growth in sales is to make acquisitions in our existing markets and in new geographic markets. To complete the acquisition of additional stores, we need to successfully address each of the following challenges.. Manufacturers. We are required to obtain consent from the applicable manufacturer prior to the acquisition of a franchised store. In determining whether to approve an acquisition, a manufacturer considers many factors, including our financial condition, ownership structure, the number of stores currently owned and our performance with those stores. Obtaining manufacturer approval of acquisitions also takes a significant amount of time, typically 60 to 90 days. In the past, manufacturers have not consented to our purchase of franchised stores due to the performance of existing stores. We cannot assure you that manufacturers will approve future acquisitions timely, if at all, which could significantly impair the execution of our acquisition strategy.. Most major manufacturers have now established limitations or guidelines on the:. • number of such manufacturers' stores that may be acquired by a single owner;. • number of stores that may be acquired in any market or region;. • percentage of market share that may be controlled by one automotive retailer group;. • ownership of stores in contiguous markets;. • performance requirements for existing stores; and. • frequency of acquisitions.. 17. In addition, such manufacturers generally require that no other manufacturers' brands be sold from the same store location, and many manufacturers have site control agreements in place that limit our ability to change the use of the facility without their approval.. A manufacturer also considers our past performance as measured by the Minimum Sales Responsibility (\"MSR\") scores, CSI scores and Sales Satisfaction Index (\"SSI\") scores at our existing stores. At any point in time, certain stores may have scores below the manufacturers' sales zone averages or have achieved sales below the targets manufacturers have set. Our failure to maintain satisfactory scores and to achieve market share performance goals could restrict our ability to complete future store acquisitions.. Acquisition Risks. We will face risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisitions. These risks include, without limitation:. • failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of acquired dealerships;. • straining our existing systems, procedures, structures and personnel;. • failing to achieve predicted sales levels;. • incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses, which could substantially limit our operating or financial flexibility;. • entering new, unfamiliar markets;. • encountering undiscovered liabilities and operational difficulties at acquired dealerships;. • disrupting our ongoing business;. • diverting our management resources;. • failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies;. • impairing relationships with employees, manufacturers and customers as a result of changes in management;. • incurring increased expenses for accounting and computer systems, as well as integration difficulties;. • failing to obtain a manufacturer's consent to the acquisition of one or more of its dealership franchises or renew the franchise agreement on terms acceptable to us;. • incorrectly valuing entities to be acquired; and. • incurring additional facility renovation costs or other expenses required by the manufacturer.. In addition, we may not adequately anticipate all of the demands that growth will impose on our systems, procedures and structures.. Consummation and Competition. We may not be able to complete future acquisitions at acceptable prices and terms or identify suitable candidates. In addition, increased competition in the future for acquisition candidates could result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us and higher acquisition prices. The magnitude, timing, pricing and nature of future acquisitions will depend upon various factors, including:. • the availability of suitable acquisition candidates;. • competition with other dealer groups for suitable acquisitions;. • the negotiation of acceptable terms with sellers and with manufacturers;. • our financial capabilities and ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms;. • our stock price;. • our ability to maintain required financial covenant levels after the acquisition; and. • the availability of skilled employees to manage the acquired businesses.. Operating and Financial Condition. Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual operating condition of acquired stores and we may not have an accurate understanding of each acquired store's financial condition and performance. Similarly, most of the dealerships we acquire do not have financial statements audited or prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We may not have an accurate understanding of the historical financial condition and performance of our acquired businesses. Until we assume control of the business, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired businesses and their earnings potential. These risks may not be adequately mitigated by the indemnification obligations we negotiated with sellers.. Limitations on Our Capital Resources. We make a substantial capital investment when we acquire dealerships. Limitations on our capital resources would restrict our ability to complete new acquisitions or could limit our operating or financial flexibility.. 18. We finance acquisitions activity with cash flows from our operations, borrowings under our credit arrangements, proceeds from our offering of senior notes, proceeds from mortgage financing and the issuance of shares of Class A common stock. The size of our acquisition activity in recent years magnifies risks associated with debt service obligations. These risks include potential lower earnings per share, our inability to pay dividends and potential negative impacts to the debt covenants we negotiated under our credit agreement.. If we fail to meet the covenants in our credit facility or our senior notes indenture, or if some other event occurs that results in a default or an acceleration of our repayment obligations under our debt instruments, we may not be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us or at all. We may not be able to obtain financing in the future due to the market price of our Class A common stock and overall market conditions. Additionally, a substantial amount of assets of our dealerships are pledged to secure the indebtedness under our credit facility and our other floor plan financing indebtedness. These pledges may limit our ability to borrow from other sources in order to fund our acquisitions.. Goodwill and other intangible assets comprise a significant portion of our total assets. We must test our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at least annually, which could result in a material, non-cash write-down of goodwill or franchise rights and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment assessments at least annually (or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred) by applying a fair-value based test. Our principal intangible assets are goodwill and our rights under our franchise agreements with vehicle manufacturers. A decrease in our market capitalization or profitability increases the risk of goodwill impairment. Negative or declining cash flows or a decline in actual or planned revenues for our stores increases the risk of franchise rights impairment. An impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. As of December 31, 2017, our balance sheet reflected carrying amounts of $256.3 million in goodwill, and $187.0 million million in franchise value.. We are subject to substantial risk of loss under our various self-insurance programs including property and casualty, open lot vehicle coverage, workers' compensation and employee medical coverage. Our insurance does not fully cover all of our operational risks, and changes in the cost of insurance or the availability of insurance could materially increase our insurance costs or result in a decrease in our insurance coverage.. We have a significant concentration of our property values at each dealership location, including vehicle and parts inventories and our facilities. Natural disasters and severe weather events (such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods, landslides and wind or hail storms) or other extraordinary events subject us to property loss and business interruption. Illegal or unethical conduct by employees, customers, vendors and unaffiliated third parties can also impact our business. Other potential liabilities arising out of our operations may involve claims by employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or property damage and potential fines and penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements.. Under our self-insurance programs, we retain various levels of aggregate loss limits, per claim deductibles and claims-handling expenses. Costs in excess of these retained risks may be insured under various contracts with third-party insurance carriers. As of December 31, 2017, we had total reserve amounts associated with these programs of $31.2 million.. The level of risk we retain may change in the future as insurance market conditions or other factors affecting the economics of our insurance purchasing change. The operation of automobile dealerships is subject to a broad variety of risks. In certain instances, our insurance may not fully cover an insured loss depending on the magnitude and nature of the claim. Accordingly, we cannot assure that we will not be exposed to uninsured or underinsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, changes in the cost of insurance or the availability of insurance in the future could substantially increase our costs to maintain our current level of coverage or could cause us to reduce our insurance coverage and increase the portion of our risks that we self-insure.. 19. Our indebtedness and lease obligations could materially adversely affect our financial health, limit our ability to finance future acquisitions and capital expenditures and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. Much of our debt is secured by a substantial portion of our assets. Much of our debt has a variable interest rate component that may significantly increase our interest costs in a rising rate environment.. Our indebtedness and lease obligations could have important consequences to us, including the following:. • limitations on our ability to make acquisitions;. • impaired ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital or general corporate purposes;. • reduced funds available for our operations and other purposes, as a larger portion of our cash flow from operations would be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; and. • exposure to the risk of increasing interest rates as certain borrowings are, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest.. In addition, our loan agreements and our senior note indenture contain covenants that limit our discretion with respect to business matters, including incurring additional debt, granting additional security interests in our assets, acquisition activity, disposing of assets and other business matters. Other covenants are financial in nature, including current ratio, fixed charge coverage and leverage ratio calculations. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the applicable agreement. In addition, a default under one agreement could result in a default and acceleration of our repayment obligations under the other agreements under the cross-default provisions in such other agreements.. We have granted in favor of certain of our lenders and other secured parties, including those under our $2.4 billion revolving syndicated credit facility, a security interest in a substantial portion of our assets. If we default on our obligations under those agreements, the secured parties may be able to foreclose upon their security interests and otherwise be entitled to obtain or control those assets.. Certain debt agreements contain subjective acceleration clauses based on a lender deeming itself insecure or if a \"material adverse change\" in our business has occurred. If these clauses are implicated, and the lender declares that an event of default has occurred, the outstanding indebtedness would likely be immediately due and owing.. If these events were to occur, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. Even if new financing were available, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. As a result of this risk, we could be forced to take actions that we otherwise would not take, or not take actions that we otherwise might take, in order to comply with these agreements.. In addition, the lenders' obligations to make loans or other credit accommodations under certain credit agreements is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions precedent including, for example, that our representations and warranties in the agreement are true and correct in all material respects as of the date of the proposed credit extension. If any of our representations and warranties in those agreements are not true and correct in all material respects as of the date of a proposed credit extension, or if other conditions precedent are not satisfied, we may not be able to request new loans or other credit accommodations under those credit facilities, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Additionally, our real estate debt generally has a five to ten-year term, after which the debt needs to be renewed or replaced. A decline in the appraised value of real estate or a reduction in the loan-to-value lending ratios for new or renewed real estate loans could result in our inability to renew maturing real estate loans at the debt level existing at maturity, or on terms acceptable to us, requiring us to find replacement lenders or to refinance at lower loan amounts.. As of December 31, 2017, 76% of our total debt was variable rate. The majority of our variable rate debt is indexed to the one-month LIBOR rate. The current interest rate environment is at historically low levels, and interest rates will likely increase in the future. In the event interest rates increase, our borrowing costs may increase substantially. Additionally, fixed rate debt that matures may be renewed at interest rates significantly higher than current levels. As a result, this could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 20. We may not be able to satisfy our debt obligations upon the occurrence of a change in control under our debt instruments.. Upon the occurrence of a change in control as defined in our credit agreement, the agent under the credit agreement will have the right to declare all outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and to terminate the availability of future advances to us. Upon the occurrence of a change in control, as defined in our senior notes indenture, the holders of our senior notes will have the right to require us to purchase all or any part of such holders' notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. There can be no assurance that we would have sufficient resources available to satisfy all of our obligations under the credit agreement in the event of a change in control or fundamental change. In the event we were unable to satisfy these obligations, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and our common stock holders. A \"change in control\" as defined in our credit agreement includes, among other events, the acquisition by any person, or two or more persons acting in concert, in either case other than Lithia Holdings Company, L.L.C., Sid DeBoer or Bryan DeBoer, of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of 20% or more of the outstanding shares of our voting stock on a fully diluted basis.. We have a significant relationship with a third-party warranty insurer and administrator. This third-party is the obligor of service warranty policies sold to our customers. Additionally, we have agreements in place that allow for future income based on the claims experience on policies sold to our customers.. We sell service warranty policies to our customers issued by a third-party obligor. We receive additional fee income if actual claims are less than the amounts reserved for anticipated claims and the costs of administration and administrator profit.. A decline in the financial health of the third-party insurer could jeopardize the claims reserves held by the administrator, and prevent us from collecting the experience payments anticipated to be earned in future years. While the amount we receive varies annually, the loss of this income could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Further, the inability of the insurer to honor service warranty claims would likely result in reputational risk to us and might result in claims to cover any default by the insurer.. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract additional qualified management personnel could adversely affect our operations and growth.. Our success depends to a significant degree on the efforts and abilities of our senior management. Further, we have identified Bryan B. DeBoer in most of our store franchise agreements as the individual who controls the franchises and upon whose financial resources and management expertise the manufacturers may rely when awarding or approving the transfer of any franchise. If we lose these key personnel, our business may suffer.. In addition, as we expand, we will need to hire additional managers and other employees. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which we operate, particularly for general managers and sales and service personnel, is highly competitive and may subject us to increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. The loss of the services of key employees or the inability to attract additional qualified managers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, the lack of qualified managers or other employees employed by potential acquisition candidates may limit our ability to consummate future acquisitions.. Significant voting control is currently held by Sidney B. DeBoer, who may have interests different from our other shareholders. Further, all of the 1.0 million shares of our Class B common stock held by Lithia Holding Company, LLC (\"Lithia Holding\") are pledged to secure indebtedness of Lithia Holding. The failure to repay the indebtedness could result in the sale of such shares and the loss of this significant voting control.. Sidney B. DeBoer, our Founder and Chairman of the Board, is the sole managing member of Lithia Holdings, which holds all of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock. A holder of Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes for each share held, while a holder of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share held. On most matters, the Class A and Class B common stock vote together as a single class. As of February 23, 2018, Lithia Holding controlled, and Mr. DeBoer had the authority to vote, 29% of the aggregate number of votes eligible to be cast by shareholders for the election of directors and most other shareholder actions. This amount of voting control may make. 21. certain changes in control or transactions more difficult. The interests of Mr. DeBoer may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other shareholders.. Lithia Holding has pledged 1.0 million shares of our Class B common stock to secure a loan from U.S. Bank National Association. If Lithia Holding is unable to repay the loan, the bank could foreclose on the Class B common stock, which would result in the automatic conversion of such shares to Class A common stock. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline if the bank foreclosed on the pledged stock and subsequently sold such stock in the open market.. Risks related to investing in our Class A common stock. Oregon law and our Restated Articles of Incorporation may impede or discourage a takeover, which could impair the market price of our Class A common stock.. We are an Oregon corporation, and certain provisions of Oregon law and our Restated Articles of Incorporation may have anti-takeover effects. These provisions could delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider to be in his or her best interest. These provisions may also affect attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by shareholders, and may make removal of the incumbent management and directors more difficult, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock.. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of Class A common stock.. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue a series of preferred stock without any action on the part of our holders of Class A common stock. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting powers, preferences over our Class A common stock with respect to dividends or if we voluntarily or involuntarily dissolve or distribute our assets, and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our Class A common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our Class A common stock, the rights of holders of our Class A common stock or the price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected."
