[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in LOB common stock involves certain risks. The following discussion highlights the risks that management believes are material for the Company, but do not necessarily include all the risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known or that management does not currently deem material could also have a material adverse impact on our business, results of our operations and financial condition.  You should carefully consider the risk factors and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Report in evaluating an investment in LOB's common stock.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition, and results of operations.. Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. A customer's failure to repay us is usually preceded by missed monthly payments. In some instances, however, a customer may declare bankruptcy prior to missing payments, and, following a borrower filing bankruptcy, a lender's recovery of the credit extended is often limited. Since many of our loans are secured by collateral, we may attempt to seize the collateral if and when a customer defaults on a loan. However, the value of the collateral might not equal the amount of the unpaid loan, and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customer. The resolution of nonperforming assets, including the initiation of foreclosure proceedings, requires significant commitments of time from management, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities, and which expose us to additional legal costs. Elevated levels of loan delinquencies and bankruptcies in our market areas, generally, and among our customers specifically, can be precursors of future charge-offs and may require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, or ALLL. Higher charge-off rates, delays in the foreclosure process or in obtaining judgments against defaulting borrowers or an increase in our ALLL may negatively impact our overall financial performance, may increase our cost of funds, and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. SBA lending is an important part of our business. Our SBA lending program is dependent upon the federal government, and we face specific risks associated with originating SBA loans.. Our SBA lending program is dependent upon the federal government. As an SBA Preferred Lender, we enable our clients to obtain SBA loans without being subject to the potentially lengthy SBA approval process necessary for lenders that are not SBA Preferred Lenders. The SBA periodically reviews the lending operations of participating lenders to assess, among other things, whether the lender exhibits prudent risk management. When weaknesses are identified, the SBA may request corrective actions or impose enforcement actions, including revocation of the lender's Preferred Lender status. If we lose our status as a Preferred Lender, we may lose some or all of our customers to lenders who are SBA Preferred Lenders, and as a result we could experience a material adverse effect to our financial results. Any changes to the SBA program, including changes to the level of guarantee provided by the federal government on SBA loans, may also have a material adverse effect on our business.. We generally sell the guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) loans in the secondary market. These sales have resulted in premium income for us at the time of sale and created a stream of future servicing income. We may not be able to continue originating these loans or selling them in the secondary market. Furthermore, even if we are able to continue originating and selling SBA 7(a) loans in the secondary market, we might not continue to realize premiums upon the sale of the guaranteed portion of these loans. When we sell the guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) loans, we incur credit risk on the non-guaranteed portion of the loans, and if a customer defaults on the non-guaranteed portion of a loan, we share any loss and recovery related to the loan pro-rata with the SBA. If the SBA establishes that a loss on an SBA guaranteed loan is attributable to significant technical deficiencies in the manner in which the loan was originated, funded or serviced by us, the SBA may seek recovery of the principal loss related to the deficiency from us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 13. Table of Contents. The laws, regulations and standard operating procedures that are applicable to SBA loan products may change at any time.  For example, effective January 1, 2018, the SBA changed its procedures relating to equity levels required to qualify for an SBA loan.  We expect these changes will have an adverse impact on originations, particularly in our Agriculture vertical and other verticals where the borrowers historically have faced challenges meeting equity requirements for eligibility. In March 2018, the Office of Inspector General (the \"OIG\") for the SBA issued its Evaluation of SBA 7(a) Loans Made to Poultry Farmers.  The report summarized the OIG's review of SBA 7(a) loans made to poultry farmers along with its findings and recommendations.  Among other things, the OIG report concluded that the loans to poultry farmers it had reviewed did not meet regulatory and SBA requirements for eligibility.  The SBA's response to the OIG report suggests that it will review the report and recommendations and determine whether to take any further action.  We are still assessing the potential impact of the report and any SBA actions in response.  We cannot predict the effects of future changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies and especially our organization, changes in the laws, regulations and procedures applicable to SBA loans could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably.. We are dependent upon the use of intellectual property owned by third parties, and any change in our ability to use, or the terms upon which we may use, this intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The technology-based platform that is pivotal to our success is dependent on the use of the nCino Bank Operating System and Salesforce.com, Inc.'s Force.com cloud computing infrastructure platform. We rely on a non-exclusive license to use nCino's platform. Because our license is non-exclusive, the nCino Bank Operating System is available to other lenders and nothing would prevent our competitors from developing, licensing or using similar technology. Our license currently expires on November 15, 2018. Notwithstanding the term of our agreement, our license may be terminated if we are in material breach of the license and do not cure the breach within 30 days. In addition, nCino relies on a license to use the Salesforce.com platform, and if nCino were unable to maintain its rights under that license, our ability to rely on the nCino license could be adversely affected. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to renew or maintain our license to use the nCino Bank Operating System on terms that are acceptable. Termination of either of these licenses or the reduction or elimination of our licensed rights may result in our having to negotiate new licenses with less favorable terms, or the inability to obtain access to such licensed technology at all. Similarly, Apiture provides the Bank significant engineering, development, professional and other services under an agreement we signed with Apiture in connection with the closing of the joint venture in October 2017.  It would be difficult for the Bank to replace these services with a third party.  Notwithstanding the Bank's ownership of 50% of the voting control of Apiture, there can be no assurance that Apiture will continue to provide such services at appropriate service levels or at prices that would be market competitive.  If we were to lose access to any of this technology, or were only able to access the technology on less favorable terms, we would not be able to offer our customers the technology-based platform services they seek from us and our business would be materially and adversely affected.. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems, or those of our third party service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, result in unintentional disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.. As a financial institution, our operations rely heavily on the secure data processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. Any failure, interruption or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our online banking system, customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit and loan servicing and other systems. The security and integrity of our systems and the technology we use could be threatened by a variety of interruptions or information security breaches, including those caused by computer hacking, cyber-attacks, electronic fraudulent activity or attempted theft of financial assets. We may fail to promptly identify or adequately address any such failures, interruptions or security breaches if they do occur. While we have certain protective policies and procedures in place, the nature and sophistication of the threats continue to evolve. We may be required to expend significant additional resources in the future to modify and enhance our protective measures.. 14. Table of Contents. The nature of our business may make it an attractive target and potentially vulnerable to cyber-attacks, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or similar disruptions. The technology-based platform we use processes sensitive data from our borrowers and investors. While we have taken steps to protect confidential information that we have access to, our security measures and the security measures employed by the owners of the technology in the platform that we use could be breached. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access to our systems could cause confidential customer, borrower, employee, vendor, partner or investor information to be stolen and used for criminal purposes. Security breaches or unauthorized access to confidential information could also expose us to liability related to the loss of the information, time-consuming and expensive litigation, and negative publicity. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in the technology-based platform that we use are exposed and exploited, our relationships with customers, borrowers, employees, vendors, partners and investors could be severely damaged, and we could incur significant liability.. Because techniques used to sabotage or obtain unauthorized access to systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we and our collaborators may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, federal regulators and many federal and state laws and regulations require companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach are costly to implement and often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause customers, borrowers, employees, vendors, partners or investors to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, would harm our reputation, we could lose customers, borrowers, employees, vendors, partners, or investors, and our business and operations could be adversely affected.. Additionally, we face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems. Any failures, interruptions or security breaches in our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, or expose us to civil litigation, regulatory fines or losses not covered by insurance.. Our business is dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party providers. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the value of our common stock.. A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Like all financial institutions, we are subject to certain risks resulting from a weakened economy, such as increased charge-offs and levels of past-due loans and nonperforming assets. Although the U.S. economy has emerged from the severe recession that occurred from 2007 to 2009, economic growth has been slow and uneven, and unemployment levels remain elevated in many areas of the country. In addition, recovery by many businesses has been impaired by lower consumer spending. A return of prolonged deteriorating economic conditions could adversely affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans, the value of our investments, and our ongoing operations, including our equipment leasing and title insurance businesses, costs and profitability. These events may cause us to incur losses and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 15. Table of Contents. Our loan portfolio mix, which includes owner-occupied commercial real estate loans, could result in increased credit risk in a challenging economy.. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in owner-occupied commercial real estate and owner-occupied commercial business loans. These types of loans generally are viewed as carrying more risk of default than residential real estate loans or certain other types of loans or investments. In fact, the FDIC has issued pronouncements alerting banks of its concern about heavy loan concentrations in certain types of commercial real estate loans, including acquisition, construction and development loans, and heavy loan concentrations in certain geographic segments. Because a portion of our loan portfolio is composed of these types of higher-risk loans, we face an increased risk of nonperforming loans that could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses, or an increase in loan charge-offs, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The current economic environment and any deterioration or downturn in the economies or real estate values in the markets we serve could have a material adverse effect on both borrowers' ability to repay their loans and the value of the real property securing those loans. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans would then be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Any of these developments could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The fair value of our investment securities can fluctuate due to factors outside of our control.. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of our investment securities portfolio was approximately $93 million. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency actions in respect of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, monetary tapering actions by the Federal Reserve, and changes in market interest rates and potential instability in the capital markets. Any of these factors, among others, could cause other-than-temporary impairments and realized or unrealized losses in future periods and declines in other comprehensive income, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects, as well as the value of our common stock. The process for determining whether impairment of a security is other-than-temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance and liquidity of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Our inability to accurately predict the future performance of an issuer or to efficiently respond to changing market conditions could result in a decline in the value of our investment securities portfolio, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the quality of our assets, particularly loans. In originating loans, there is a substantial likelihood that we will experience credit losses. The risk of loss will vary with, among other things, general economic conditions, including the current economic environment and real estate market, the type of loan, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan, and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the quality of the collateral for the loan.. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. As a result, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans.  We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses that may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions, and other pertinent information.. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses, and we may need to make adjustments to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance in the form of provisions for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. We expect our allowance to continue to fluctuate; however, given current and future market conditions, our allowance may not be adequate to cover future loan losses.. 16. Table of Contents. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan and lease losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulators could have a negative effect on our operating results and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The valuation of our servicing rights is based on estimates and subject to fluctuation based on market conditions and other factors that are beyond our control.. The fair value of our servicing rights is estimated based upon projections of expected future cash flows generated by the loans we service, historical prepayment rates, future prepayment estimates, portfolio characteristics, interest rates based on interest rate yield curves, volatility, market demand for servicing rights and other factors. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the valuation of our servicing rights is ultimately an estimate based on our experience, judgment and expectations regarding our servicing portfolio and the broader market. This is an inherently uncertain process and the value of our servicing rights may be adversely impacted by factors that are beyond our control, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The recognition of gains on the sale of loans reflects certain assumptions.. Gains on the sale of loans comprise a significant component of our revenue. Noncash gains recognized in the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were $6.2 million, $7.1 million and $6.1 million respectively. The determination of these noncash gains is based on assumptions regarding the value of unguaranteed loans retained, servicing rights retained and deferred fees and costs. The value of retained unguaranteed loans and servicing rights are determined by our wholly owned subsidiary, GLS, which applies market derived factors such as prepayment rates, current market conditions and recent loan sales to arrive at valuations. Deferred fees and costs are determined using internal analysis of the cost to originate loans. Significant errors in assumptions used to compute gains on sale of loans could result in material revenue misstatements, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and profitability. In addition, while we believe that the valuations provided by GLS are at arm's length, reflect fair value and are subject to validation by an independent third party on a biannual basis, if such valuations are not reflective of fair market value then our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. We anticipate that going forward we will experience increasing growth in our held-for-sale and held-for-investment loan portfolios due to our increasing construction portfolio or strategic business decisions.. Our revenue model has historically been driven by selling loans that we originate, or a portion of the loans, in the secondary market when fully funded. The growth of our construction portfolio that typically funds in stages will result in a decrease in the volume of loans sold relative to production in any period, which, in turn, decreases our revenue relative to production in any period. In addition, we anticipate growth in our loans held for investment due to our origination of loans that we choose not to sell or for which there is no secondary market or due to other strategic choices, including the pursuit of potential opportunities in conventional lending outside of SBA or other government guarantee programs. Growth in our held-for-sale and our held-for-investment loan portfolios exposes us to increased interest rate and credit risks.. Our rental equipment is subject to residual value risk upon disposition, and may not sell at the prices or in the quantities we expect.. The market value of any given piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. The market value of used rental equipment depends on several factors, including:. • the market price for new equipment of a like kind;. • the age of the equipment at the time it is sold, as well as wear and tear on the equipment relative to its age;. • the supply of used equipment on the market;. • technological advances relating to the equipment;. • demand for the used equipment; and. • general economic conditions.. 17. Table of Contents. We include in income from operations the difference between the sales price and the depreciated value of an item of equipment sold. Changes in our assumptions regarding depreciation could change our depreciation expense, as well as the gain or loss realized upon disposal of equipment. Sales of our used rental equipment at prices that fall significantly below our projections or in lesser quantities than we anticipate will have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to liquidity risk in our operations.. Liquidity risk is the possibility of being unable, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances, to pay obligations as they come due, to capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or to pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding on a timely basis. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit obligations to borrowers, loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of debt, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses, and capital expenditures. Our liquidity is derived primarily from the sale of loans in the secondary market, retail deposit growth and retention, principal and interest payments on loans and investment securities, net cash provided from operations, and access to other funding sources. Historically, we have relied on brokered and Internet funds as a large portion of our deposit base. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or at a reasonable cost could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could adversely affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn, our lack of access to a traditional branch banking network designed to generate core deposits and adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. Our access to borrowed funds could become limited in the future, and we may be required to pay above market rates for additional borrowed funds, if we are able to obtain them at all, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The amount of other real estate owned, or OREO, may increase significantly, resulting in additional losses, and costs and expenses that will negatively affect our operations.. In connection with our banking business, we take title to real estate collateral from time to time through foreclosure or otherwise in connection with efforts to collect debts previously contracted. Such real estate is referred to as other real estate owned, or OREO. As the amount of OREO increases, our losses, and the costs and expenses to maintain the real estate, likewise increase. The amount of OREO we hold may increase due to various economic conditions or other factors. Any additional increase in losses and maintenance costs and other expenses due to OREO may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Such effects may be particularly pronounced in a market of reduced real estate values and excess inventory, which may make the disposition of OREO properties more difficult, increase maintenance costs and other expenses, and reduce our ultimate realization from any OREO sales. In addition, at the time of acquisition of the OREO we are required to reflect its fair market value in our financial statements. If the OREO declines in value subsequent to its acquisition, we are required to recognize a loss. As a result, declines in the value of our OREO will have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2017, we had four OREO properties with an aggregate carrying value of $1.3 million. For more information about amounts held in OREO, see Note 11 to our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with this Report.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our lending activities.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 18. Table of Contents. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make a loan secured by real property or how to value the loan in the future may not accurately reflect the net value of the collateral that we can realize.. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made, and, as real estate values may experience changes in value in relatively short periods of time, especially during periods of heightened economic uncertainty, this estimate might not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral after the loan has been closed. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property. In addition, we rely on appraisals and other valuation techniques to establish the value of our OREO and to determine certain loan impairments. If any of these valuations are inaccurate, our consolidated financial statements may not reflect the correct value of OREO, and our Allowance for loans losses may not reflect accurate loan impairments. The valuation of the properties securing the loans in our portfolio may negatively impact the continuing value of those loans and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We could be subject to losses, regulatory action or reputational harm due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, our borrowers, our employees and vendors.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, property appraisals, title information, employment and income documentation, account information and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of such information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. Any such misrepresentation or incorrect or incomplete information may not be detected prior to funding a loan or during our ongoing monitoring of outstanding loans. In addition, one or more of our employees or vendors could cause a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our loan documentation, operations or systems. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits, including estimated cost savings, of potential future acquisitions.. In the future, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining required regulatory approvals for, or face unexpected contingent liabilities from, businesses we may acquire. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly, sometimes including combining relevant accounting and data processing systems and management controls, as well as managing relevant relationships with employees, customers, suppliers and other business partners. Integration efforts could divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, given continued market volatility and uncertainty, we may also experience increased credit costs or need to take additional markdowns and allowances for loan losses on assets and loans we may acquire. These increased credit costs, markdowns and allowances could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the value of our common stock.. Implementation of our growth strategy depends, in part, on our ability to successfully identify acquisition opportunities and strategic partners that will complement our operating philosophy, and also on the successful integration of their operations with our own. To successfully acquire target companies or establish complementary lines of business, we must be able to correctly identify profitable or growing markets, as well as attract the necessary relationships and high caliber personnel to make these new business lines profitable. In addition, we may not be able to identify suitable opportunities for further growth and expansion. As consolidation of the financial services industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We will compete with other financial services companies for acquisition opportunities, and many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more for an acquisition than we are able or willing to pay. If we are unable to effectively implement our growth strategies, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. 19. Table of Contents. Acquisitions may be delayed, impeded, or prohibited due to regulatory issues.. Acquisitions by the Company or the Bank, particularly those of financial institutions, are subject to approval by a variety of federal and state regulatory agencies. Regulatory approvals could be delayed, impeded, restrictively conditioned or denied due to regulatory issues we have, or may have, with regulatory agencies, including, without limitation, issues related to the CRA; fair lending laws; fair housing laws; consumer protection laws; unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices regulations; and other similar laws and regulations. We may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete strategic and competitively significant acquisition opportunities as a result of our inability, or perceived or anticipated inability, to obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, under reasonable conditions or at all. Difficulties associated with potential acquisitions that may result from these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future.. In connection with our acquisitions, we have generally recognized intangible assets, including goodwill, in our consolidated balance sheet. We may not realize the value of these assets. Management performs an annual review of the carrying values of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and periodic reviews of the carrying values of all other intangible assets to determine whether events and circumstances indicate that an impairment in value may have occurred. A variety of factors could cause the carrying value of an asset to become impaired. Should a review indicate impairment, a write-down of the carrying value of the asset would occur, resulting in a non-cash charge which would adversely affect our results of operations for the period.  All goodwill and intangibles recorded in 2017 are related to the acquisition of Reltco.  During 2017, the Company recognized impairment on the entire balance of goodwill and a portion of other intangibles related to this acquisition.  See Note 2. Title Insurance Business for further information on this transaction and related impairment.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.. From time to time, we may develop, grow and/or acquire new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. All service offerings, including current offerings and those which may be provided in the future, may become more risky due to changes in economic, competitive and market conditions beyond our control.. Changes in the interest rate environment could reduce our net interest income, which could reduce our profitability.. As a financial institution, our earnings depend in part on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as investment securities and loans, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the premiums we may receive in connection with the sale of SBA 7(a) loans in the secondary market, pre-payment speeds of loans for which we own servicing rights, our ability to fund our operations with customer deposits, and the fair value of securities in our investment portfolio. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, including changes in federal fiscal and monetary policies, affects us more than non-financial companies and can have a significant effect on our net interest income and results of operations. Our assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of the assets and liabilities. As a result, an increase or decrease in market interest rates could have material adverse effects on our net interest margin, noninterest income and results of operations. Further, since we began originating loans in May 2007 we have operated in a period of low market interest rates. Interest rates began increasing in 2017 and and may continue to increase in 2018 and future periods.  In a rising interest rate environment, potential borrowers could seek to defer loans as they wait for interest rates to settle, and borrowers of variable rate loans may be subject to increased interest rates, which could result in a greater rate of prepayment or default. Rising interest rates may also present additional challenges to our business that we have not anticipated.. 20. Table of Contents. We face strong competition from a diverse group of competitors.. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions, including some of the largest commercial banks headquartered in the country,  as well as other federally and state chartered financial institutions such as community banks and credit unions, finance and business development companies, consumer finance companies, peer-to-peer and marketplace lenders, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market and mutual funds and other non-bank lenders.. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans, primarily on the basis of the interest rates we pay and yield on these products. We also compete with these institutions in our other business lines, including equipment leasing and title insurance.  Many of our competitors are well-established, much larger financial institutions. While we believe we can successfully compete with these other lenders in our industry verticals, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size. Furthermore, nothing would prevent our competitors from developing or licensing a technology-based platform similar to the technology-based platform we currently use in our business. In addition, many of our non-bank competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. We expect competition to continue to intensify due to financial institution consolidation, legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and the emergence of alternative banking sources.. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors, including, among other things:. • our ability to build and maintain long-term customer relationships while ensuring high ethical standards and safe and sound banking practices;. • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services that we offer;. • customer satisfaction with our products and services;. • industry and general economic trends; and. • our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology.. Increased competition could require us to increase the rates we pay on deposits or lower the rates we offer on loans, which could reduce our profitability. Our failure to compete effectively in our primary markets could cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our investments and/or financings in certain tax-advantaged projects may not generate returns as anticipated and may have an adverse impact on our financial results.. We invest in and/or finance certain tax-advantaged projects promoting renewable energy sources. Our investments in these projects are designed to generate a return primarily through the realization of federal and state income tax credits, and other tax benefits, over specified time periods. We utilize an investment tax credit for the installation of certain solar power facilities. We are subject to the risk that previously recorded tax credits, which remain subject to recapture by taxing authorities based on compliance features required to be met at the project level, will fail to meet certain government compliance requirements and will not be able to be fully realized. The possible inability to realize these tax credits and other tax benefits can have a negative impact on our financial results. The risk of not being able to realize the tax credits and other tax benefits depends on many factors outside of our control, including changes in the applicable provisions of the tax code and the ability of the projects to be completed and properly managed.  In addition, we make loans through the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Energy for America Program, which provides guaranteed loan financing and grant funding to agricultural producers and rural small businesses for renewable energy systems or to make energy-efficient improvements.  Any changes to applicable provisions of the tax code or other developments could adversely impact demand for these loans even where we are not utilizing an investment tax credit.. Our loan portfolio may be affected by deterioration in real estate markets, including declines in the performance of loans.. Deterioration in real estate markets could result in declining prices and excess inventories. As a result, developers may experience financial deterioration and banking institutions may experience declines in the performance of construction, development and commercial loans. We make credit and reserve decisions based on the current conditions of borrowers or projects combined with our expectations for the future. If conditions are worse than forecast, we could experience higher charge-offs and delinquencies than is provided in the allowance for loan losses, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 21. Table of Contents. A prolonged U.S. government shutdown or default by the U.S. on government obligations would harm our results of operations.. Our results of operations, including revenue, non-interest income, expenses and net interest income, would be adversely affected in the event of widespread financial and business disruption on account of a default by the United States on U.S. government obligations or a prolonged failure to maintain significant U.S. government operations, particularly those pertaining to the SBA or the FDIC. Any such failure to maintain such U.S. government operations would impede our ability to originate SBA loans and our ability to sell such loans in the secondary market, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Deterioration in the fiscal position of the U.S. federal government and downgrades in U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities could adversely affect us and our subsidiary's banking operations.. The long-term outlook for the fiscal position of the U.S. federal government is uncertain, as illustrated by the 2011 downgrade by certain rating agencies of the credit rating of the U.S. government and federal agencies. In addition to causing economic and financial market disruptions, any future downgrade, failure to raise the U.S. statutory debt limit, or deterioration in the fiscal outlook of the U.S. federal government, could, among other things, materially adversely affect the market value of the U.S. government and federal agency securities that we hold, the availability of those securities as collateral for borrowing, and our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms. In particular, it could increase interest rates and disrupt payment systems, money markets, and long-term or short-term fixed income markets, adversely affecting the cost and availability of funding, which could negatively affect our profitability. Also, the adverse consequences could extend to those to whom we extend credit and could adversely affect their ability to repay their loans. Any of these developments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Deterioration in the commercial soundness of our counterparties could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could create another market-wide liquidity crisis similar to that experienced in late 2008 and early 2009 and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. The deterioration or failure of our counterparties would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have different lending risks than larger, more diversified banks.. Our ability to diversify our economic risks is limited. We lend primarily to small businesses in selected industries, which may expose us to greater lending risks than those of banks lending to larger, better-capitalized businesses with longer operating histories. Small businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and may have limited operating histories. If economic conditions negatively impact the verticals in which we operate, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We attempt to manage our credit exposure through careful monitoring of loan applicants and through loan approval and review procedures. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses is an estimate based on experience, judgment and expectations regarding our borrowers, and the economies in which we and our borrowers operate, as well as the judgment of our regulators. This is an inherently uncertain process, and our loan loss reserves may not be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 22. Table of Contents. We rely heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of any of those personnel could adversely affect our operations; we depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel.. We are a customer-focused and relationship-driven organization. We expect our future growth to be driven in a large part by the relationships maintained with our customers by our chief executive officer, president, and other senior officers. The unexpected loss of any of our key employees could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The implementation of our business strategy will also require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. We are not party to non-compete or non-solicitation agreements with any of our officers or employees. The market for qualified employees in the businesses in which we operate is competitive, and we may not be successful in attracting, hiring or retaining key personnel. Our inability to attract, hire or retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risks and/or losses to us.. We have implemented a risk management framework to manage our risk exposure. This framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, interest rate and compliance risks. Our framework also includes financial and other modeling methodologies which involve management assumptions and judgment. Our risk management framework may not be effective under all circumstances and it may fail to adequately mitigate risk or loss to us. If our framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and be subject to potentially adverse regulatory consequences, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. North Carolina's coastal region is affected, from time to time, by adverse weather events, particularly hurricanes. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, damage caused by future hurricanes or other weather events will affect our operations. Weather events could cause a disruption in our day-to-day business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Outbreaks of avian disease, such as avian influenza, or the perception that outbreaks may occur, could have a material adverse effect on lending operations in our Agriculture vertical.. Pandemic events beyond our control, such as an outbreak of avian disease, or \"bird flu,\" could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our portfolio of loans in our Agriculture vertical and on the demand for new loans in this vertical. An outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of fresh and frozen chicken or other poultry products to or from our customers. This could result in the cancellation of orders and the curtailment of farming operations by our customers and could create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on the performance of our existing loans and future business prospects in our Agriculture vertical. In addition, consumer fears about avian disease have, in the past, depressed demand for fresh poultry, which may adversely impact the demand for future loans and the performance of existing loans in our Agriculture vertical.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities.. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. We may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from NASDAQ. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and could subject us to litigation.. 23. Table of Contents. Changes in accounting standards and management's selection of accounting methods, including assumptions and estimates, could materially impact our financial statements.. From time to time the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, update accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"GAAP\") that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. In addition, management is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If the assumptions or estimates are incorrect, we may experience unexpected material adverse consequences that could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The FASB has recently issued an accounting standard update that will result in a significant change in how we recognize credit losses and may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update, \"Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,\" which replaces the current \"incurred loss\" model for recognizing credit losses with an \"expected loss\" model referred to as the Current Expected Credit Loss (\"CECL\") model. Under the CECL model, we will be required to present certain financial assets carried at amortized cost, such as loans held for investment and held-to-maturity debt securities, at the net amount expected to be collected over the contractual life of the financial instrument. The measurement of expected credit losses is to be based on information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. This measurement will take place at the time the financial asset is first added to the balance sheet and periodically thereafter. This differs significantly from the \"incurred loss\" model required under current GAAP, which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. Accordingly, we expect that the adoption of the CECL model will materially affect how we determine our allowance for loan losses and could require us to significantly increase our allowance. Moreover, the CECL model may create more volatility in the level of our allowance for loan losses. If we are required to materially increase our level of allowance for loan losses for any reason, such increase could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The new CECL standard will become effective for us on January 1, 2020. We are currently evaluating the impact the CECL model will have on our accounting, but we expect to recognize a one-time cumulative-effect adjustment to our allowance for loan losses as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the new standard is effective, consistent with regulatory expectations set forth in interagency guidance issued at the end of 2016. We cannot yet determine the magnitude of any such one-time cumulative adjustment or of the overall impact of the new standard on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential customers and shareholders, and the industries that we serve. Any damage to our reputation, whether arising from legal, regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, the conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Insiders have substantial control over us, and this control may limit our shareholders' ability to influence corporate matters and may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control over us.. As of January 31, 2018, our directors and executive officers and their related entities currently beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 25.7% of our outstanding common stock. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors' perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. In addition, these shareholders will be able to exercise influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if that change in control would benefit our other shareholders. For information regarding the ownership of our outstanding stock by our executive officers and directors and related entities, see \"Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters\" in this Report.. 24. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Investment in Apiture. If the market for Apiture's digital banking solutions develops more slowly than we expect or changes in ways that we fail to anticipate, our operating results would be adversely affected.. Use of and reliance on digital banking solutions is at an early stage, and we do not know whether the market will develop more slowly than we anticipate. Many financial institutions have invested substantial resources in legacy software, and these institutions may be reluctant or unwilling to convert from their existing systems to Apiture's digital banking solutions.  Furthermore, for most financial institutions, transitioning from an existing software provider (or from an internally developed legacy system) to a new provider is a significant and expensive undertaking.  Potential customers of Apiture's digital banking solutions may conclude that switching providers involves too many potential disadvantages such as disruption of business operations, loss of accustomed functionality and increased costs (including conversion and transition costs). Furthermore, some financial institutions may be reluctant or unwilling to use a cloud-based solution over concerns such as the security of their data and reliability of the delivery model. These concerns or other considerations may cause potential customers to choose not to adopt cloud-based solutions such as those being developed by Apiture or to adopt alternative solutions, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Apiture's future success will depend on its ability to develop, sell and deliver new or enhanced solutions to financial institution clients; however, these solutions and related services may not be attractive to existing or prospective clients. In addition, promoting, selling and delivering these new and enhanced solutions may require increasingly costly sales, marketing and implementation efforts, and if existing or prospective clients choose not to adopt these solutions, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Apiture may experience development delays or software defects, which could adversely impact its potential profitability and our results of operations.. Apiture's digital banking solution will require sophisticated software and computing systems that may encounter development delays or software defects.  Defects in Apiture's software offerings or delays in the development of such software could result in unforeseen costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of credibility with existing and potential clients or reputational harm, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.   Furthermore, to the extent that the Bank is involved in beta testing or early adoption of Apiture's digital banking solutions, the Bank's personnel and resources may be diverted from the day-to-day operation of the Bank and the Bank's operations may be adversely impacted.. Apiture's ability to anticipate and respond to changing industry trends and the needs and preferences of financial institution clients may affect its competitiveness or demand for its digital banking solutions, which may adversely affect our operating results.. The financial services, payments, and technology industries are subject to rapid technological advancements, new products and services, an evolving competitive landscape, developing industry standards and changing client and consumer needs and preferences. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the financial services, payments and technology industries will continue to emerge and evolve.  These changes in technology may limit the competitiveness of and demand for products or services offered by Apiture.  Also, Apiture's existing and prospective financial institution clients and their respective customers continue to adopt new technology for business and personal uses. Apiture must anticipate and respond to these changes in order to compete in its market.. Apiture's failure to develop products and services that meet the needs and preferences of its clients could have an adverse effect on its ability to compete effectively.  Furthermore, potential negative reaction to Apiture's products and services can spread quickly through social media and damage its reputation before it has the opportunity to respond. If Apiture is unable to anticipate or respond to technological changes or evolving industry demands on a timely basis, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. 25. Table of Contents. If Apiture is unable to effectively integrate its digital banking solutions with other systems used by financial institutions, its solutions will not operate effectively and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. The functionality of Apiture's digital banking solutions will depend on its ability to integrate with other third-party systems used by potential clients, including well-established core processing systems. Certain providers of these third-party systems also offer solutions that are competitive to the solutions being developed by Apiture and may have an advantage with clients already using their software by having better ability to integrate with their software and by being able to bundle their competitive products with other applications used by Apiture's existing and prospective financial institution clients at favorable pricing.. Security breaches or attacks on Apiture's systems may have a significant effect on our business.. In order to offer its products and services, Apiture must process, store, and transmit sensitive business information and personal consumer information, including, but not limited to, names, bankcard numbers, home or business addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers and bank account numbers. Under various federal, state and international laws, Apiture is responsible for information provided to it by financial institutions, merchants, third-party service providers, and others. Maintaining the confidentiality of such sensitive business information and personal consumer information will be critical to Apiture's business; however, Apiture cannot be certain that the security measures and procedures it puts in place to protect this sensitive data will be successful or sufficient to counter all current and emerging technology threats designed to breach network security in order to gain access to confidential information. The increasing sophistication of cyber criminals and their continuous attempts to breach networks presents risk of a security breach of Apiture's systems. A breach of Apiture's systems processing or storing sensitive business information or personal consumer information could lead to claims against it, reputational damage, lost clients and lost revenue, substantial additional costs (including costs of notification of consumers, credit monitoring, card reissuance, contact centers and forensics), loss of clients' and their customers' confidence, as well as imposition of fines and damages, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, as security threats continue to evolve, Apiture will be required to invest additional resources to modify and update the security of its systems. The level of required investment could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Apiture may experience breakdowns in its processing systems that could damage client relations and expose it to liability.. Apiture's business will rely heavily on the reliability of its processing systems. A system outage could have a material adverse effect on Apiture's business, financial condition, and results of operations. Not only would it suffer damage to its reputation in the event of a system outage, but Apiture may also be liable to third parties. To successfully operate its business, Apiture must be able to protect its processing and other systems from interruption, including from events that may be beyond its reasonable control. Events that could cause system interruptions include, but are not limited to, fire, natural disaster, unauthorized entry, power loss, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, terrorist acts, cyber attacks and war. To the extent Apiture outsources its disaster recovery functions, it is at risk of the vendor's unresponsiveness or other failures in the event of system breakdowns.. 26. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities.. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including the declaration and payment of cash dividends to shareholders, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth and operations. Should we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, federal and state regulators could impose additional restrictions on the activities of the Company and the Bank, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry have changed in recent years and may continue to change, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted on July 21, 2010. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, and its implementing regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some or all of the changes, including the rulemaking authority granted to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or the CFPB, may result in greater liability, reporting requirements, assessment fees, operational restrictions, capital requirements, and other regulatory burdens applicable to us while many of our non-bank competitors may remain free from such burdens. The changes arising out of the Dodd-Frank Act could adversely affect our ability to attract and maintain depositors, to offer competitive products and services, to attract and retain key personnel and to expand our business.. Congress may consider additional proposals to change substantially the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies. Such legislation may change existing banking statutes and regulations, as well as our current operating environment significantly. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand our permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, other financial institutions and non-bank lenders. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our financial condition and results of operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve, could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand, or business and earnings, as well as the value of our common stock.. On February 3, 2017, the President of the United States issued an executive order identifying \"core principles\" for the administration's financial services regulatory policy and directing the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the heads of other financial regulatory agencies, to evaluate how the current regulatory framework promotes or inhibits the principles and what actions have been, and are being, taken to promote the principles. In response to the executive order, on June 12, 2017, October 6, 2017 and October 26, 2017, respectively, the U.S. Department of the Treasury issued the first three of four reports recommending a number of comprehensive changes in the current regulatory system for U.S. depository institutions, the U.S. capital markets and the U.S. asset management and insurance industries.  It is not clear whether the executive order will result in material changes to the current laws and rules, or those that are in process, applicable to financial institutions and financial services or products like ours. It also is not clear what the impact from any such changes would be on our business or the markets and industries in which we compete. There is no guarantee that any changes from this review would be positive for us, and any such changes could have a material adverse impact on our business and our prospects.. We may be required to raise additional capital in the future, including to comply with increased minimum capital thresholds established by our regulators as part of their implementation of Basel III, but that capital may not be available when it is needed and could be dilutive to our existing shareholders, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency approved final rules that establish an integrated regulatory capital framework that addresses perceived shortcomings in certain capital requirements. The rules implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.. 27. Table of Contents. The major provisions of the rule applicable to the Company are:. • The rule implements higher minimum capital requirements, includes a new common equity Tier1 capital requirement, and establishes criteria that instruments must meet in order to be considered Common Equity Tier 1 capital, additional Tier 1 capital, or Tier 2 capital. These enhancements are intended to both improve the quality and increase the quantity of capital required to be held by banking organizations. The minimum capital to risk-weighted assets (\"RWA\") requirements under the rule are a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%, which is an increase from 4.0%, and a total capital ratio that remains at 8.0%. The minimum leverage ratio (Tier 1 capital to total assets) is 4.0%. The rule maintains the general structure of the current prompt corrective action, or PCA, framework while incorporating these increased minimum requirements.. • The rule implements changes to the definition of capital. Among the most important changes are stricter eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments that would disallow the inclusion of instruments such as trust preferred securities in Tier 1 capital going forward, and new constraints on the inclusion of minority interests, mortgage-servicing assets (\"MSAs\"), deferred tax assets (\"DTAs\"), and certain investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions. In addition, the rule requires that certain regulatory capital deductions be made from common equity Tier 1 capital.. • Under the rule, in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividend payments and certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers, a banking organization must hold a capital conservation buffer composed of common equity Tier 1 capital above its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The buffer is measured relative to RWA. A three-year phase-in of the capital conservation buffer requirements began on January 1, 2016. A banking organization with a buffer greater than 2.5% would not be subject to limits on capital distributions or discretionary bonus payments; however, a banking organization with a buffer of less than 2.5% would be subject to increasingly stringent limitations as the buffer approaches zero. The rule also prohibits a banking organization from making distributions or discretionary bonus payments during any quarter if its eligible retained income is negative in that quarter and its capital conservation buffer ratio was less than 2.5% at the beginning of the quarter. When the rule is fully phased in, the minimum capital requirements plus the capital conservation buffer will exceed the PCA well-capitalized thresholds.. • The rule also increases the risk weights for past-due loans, certain commercial real estate loans, and some equity exposures, and makes selected other changes in risk weights and credit conversion factors.. Compliance by LOB and the Bank with these capital requirements affects their respective operations by increasing the amount of capital required to conduct operations.  In order to support the operations at the Bank, we may need to raise capital in the future. Our ability to raise capital will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control.  Accordingly, we may be unable to raise capital on terms acceptable to us if at all. If we cannot raise capital when needed, our ability to operate or further expand our operations could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise equity capital under such conditions, the interests of our shareholders could be diluted.. Our deposit operations are subject to extensive regulation, and we expect additional regulatory requirements to be implemented in the future.. We are subject to significant anti-money laundering, \"know your customer\" and other regulations under applicable law, including the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act, and we could become subject in the future to additional regulatory requirements beyond those that are currently adopted, proposed or contemplated. We expect that federal and state bank regulators will increase their oversight, inspection and investigatory role over our deposit operations and the financial services industry generally. Furthermore, we intend to increase our deposit product offerings and grow our customer deposit portfolio in the future and, as a result, we are, and will continue to be, subject to heightened compliance and operating costs that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, legal and regulatory proceedings and other contingencies will arise from time to time that may have an adverse effect on our business practices and results of operations.. 28. Table of Contents. The FDIC Deposit Insurance assessments that we are required to pay may continue to materially increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings.. As a member institution of the FDIC, we are assessed a quarterly deposit insurance premium. Failed banks nationwide have significantly depleted the insurance fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result, we may be required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. On October 19, 2010, the FDIC adopted a Deposit Insurance Fund, or DIF, Restoration Plan, which requires the DIF to attain a 1.35% reserve ratio by September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act directs the FDIC to \"offset the effect\" of the increased reserve ratio for insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion. In addition, the FDIC modified the method by which assessments are determined and, effective April 1, 2011, adjusted assessment rates, which will range from 2.5 to 45 basis points (annualized), subject to adjustments for unsecured debt and, in the case of small institutions outside the lowest risk category and certain large and highly complex institutions, brokered deposits. Further increased FDIC assessment premiums, due to our risk classification, emergency assessments, or implementation of the modified DIF reserve ratio, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our business have not yet been fully analyzed and could have a significant impact on our net income.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Reform Act\") was signed into law. We are in the process of analyzing the Tax Reform Act and its possible effects on the Company and the Bank.  The Tax Reform Act reduces the corporate tax rate to 21% from 35%, among other things.  As a result of this Tax Reform Act, we have revalued our net deferred tax liability and recorded a provisional $18.9 million income tax benefit as of December 31, 2017.  The Company will continue to evaluate the application of this Tax Reform Act and the related interpretations and guidance on our financial position, which could result in additional income tax expense or benefit during 2018.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. The low trading volume in our common stock may adversely affect your ability to resell shares at prices that you find attractive or at all.. Our common stock is listed for quotation on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol \"LOB\". The average daily trading volume for our common stock is less than that of larger financial institutions. Due to its relatively low trading volume, sales of our common stock may place significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, it may be difficult for holders to resell their shares at prices they find attractive, or at all.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the federal securities laws. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although we could lose that status sooner if our gross revenues exceed $1.0 billion, if we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt in a three-year period, or if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions, or if we choose to rely on additional exemptions in the future. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. 29. Table of Contents. Securities analysts may not initiate or continue coverage on our common stock.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have any control over these securities analysts, and they may not cover our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect its market price. If we are covered by securities analysts, and our common stock is the subject of an unfavorable report, the price of our common stock may decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover us or fail to publish regular reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price or trading volume of our common stock to decline.. We are incurring increased costs and obligations as a result of being a public company.. As a relatively new public company, we are required to comply with certain additional corporate governance and financial reporting practices and policies required of a publicly traded company. As a result, we have and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we were not required to incur as a privately held company, due to compliance requirements of the Exchange Act, Sarbanes-Oxley, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of Nasdaq, and other applicable securities rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports with respect to our business and operating results with the SEC. We are also required to ensure that we have the ability to prepare financial statements that are fully compliant with all SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, and might make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources.. Future sales of shares of our common stock by existing shareholders could depress the market price of our common stock.. LOB had 39,903,186 shares of common stock outstanding at January 31, 2018. In addition, as of January 31, 2018, there were outstanding options to purchase 3,047,017 shares of our common stock that, if exercised, will result in these additional shares becoming available for sale. Also, as of January 31, 2018, there were 178,768 outstanding restricted stock units that vest over time and 2,532,808 outstanding restricted stock units that vest based on revenue and stock price performance criteria, that when vested will result in additional shares becoming available for sale.  A large portion of these shares, options and restricted stock units are held by a small number of persons. Sales by these shareholders or option and restricted stock unit holders of a substantial number of shares could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock.. Our ability to pay cash dividends on our securities is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends.. We may not declare or pay dividends on our securities, including our common stock, in the future. Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, regulatory restrictions, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. The holders of our capital stock are entitled to receive dividends when, and if, declared by our board of directors out of funds legally available for that purpose. As part of our consideration to pay cash dividends, we intend to retain adequate funds from future earnings to support the development and growth of our business. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by federal policies and regulations. It is the current policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on capital stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization's expected future needs and financial condition. Further, our principal source of funds to pay dividends is cash dividends that we receive from the Bank, which, in turn, will be highly dependent upon the Bank's historical and projected results of operations, liquidity, cash flows and financial condition, as well as various legal and regulatory prohibitions and other restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends, extend credit or otherwise transfer funds to LOB.. Additional issuances of common stock or securities convertible into common stock may dilute holders of our common stock.. LOB may, in the future, determine that it is advisable, or LOB may encounter circumstances where it is determined that it is necessary, to issue additional shares of common stock, securities convertible into, exchangeable for or that represent an interest in common stock, or common stock-equivalent securities to fund strategic initiatives or other business needs or to build additional capital. Our board of directors is authorized to cause us to issue additional shares of common stock from time to time for adequate consideration without any additional action on the part of our shareholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of other offerings, as well as other sales of a large block of common stock or the perception that such sales could occur.. 30. Table of Contents. LOB is subject to extensive regulation, and ownership of its common stock may have regulatory implications for holders thereof.. LOB is subject to extensive federal and state banking laws, including the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or BHCA, and federal and state banking regulations, that will impact the rights and obligations of owners of its common stock, including, for example, its ability to declare and pay dividends on its common stock. Shares of LOB's common stock are voting securities for purposes of the BHCA and any bank holding company or foreign bank that is subject to the BHCA may need approval to acquire or retain more than 5% of the then outstanding shares of LOB's common stock, and any holder (or group of holders deemed to be acting in concert) may need regulatory approval to acquire or retain 10% or more of the shares of LOB's common stock. A holder or group of holders may also be deemed to control LOB if they own 25% or more of our total equity. Under certain limited circumstances, a holder or group of holders acting in concert may exceed the 25% percent threshold and not be deemed to control us until they own 33% percent or more of our total equity. The amount of total equity owned by a holder or group of holders acting in concert is calculated by aggregating all shares held by the holder or group, whether as a combination of voting or non-voting shares or through other positions treated as equity for regulatory or accounting purposes and meeting certain other conditions. Holders of LOB common stock should consult their own counsel with regard to regulatory implications.. Holders should not expect us to redeem or repurchase outstanding shares of LOB common stock.. LOB's common stock is a perpetual equity security. This means that it has no maturity or mandatory redemption date and will not be redeemable at the option of the holders. Any decision LOB may make at any time to propose the repurchase or redemption of shares of its common stock will depend upon, among other things, our evaluation of the Company's capital position, the composition of our shareholders' equity, general market conditions at that time and other factors we deem relevant. LOB's ability to redeem shares of its common stock is subject to regulatory restrictions and limitations, including those of the Federal Reserve Board.. Offerings of debt, which would rank senior to LOB's common stock upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of LOB common stock.. The Company may attempt to increase its capital resources or, if regulatory capital ratios fall below the required minimums, The Company could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, senior or subordinated notes, preferred stock and common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of the Company's debt securities and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of available assets prior to the holders of LOB common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions could adversely affect LOB shareholders.. In some cases, shareholders would receive a premium for their shares if LOB were acquired by another company. However, state and federal law and LOB's articles of incorporation and bylaws make it difficult for anyone to acquire the Company without approval of the LOB board of directors. For example, LOB's articles of incorporation require a supermajority vote of two-thirds of our outstanding common stock in order to effect a sale or merger of the Company in certain circumstances. Consequently, a takeover attempt may prove difficult, and shareholders may not realize the highest possible price for their securities.. Shares of LOB common stock are not insured deposits and may lose value.. Shares of LOB common stock are not savings accounts, deposits or other obligations of any depository institution and are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other governmental agency or instrumentality, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. An investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this \"Risk Factors\" section. As a result, if you acquire shares of our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment.. 31. Table of Contents"
