[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Risks Related to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices are volatile. A substantial or extended decline in the price of these commodities may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.. Our revenues, profitability, liquidity, ability to access capital and future growth prospects are highly dependent on the prices we receive for our oil, natural gas and NGLs. The prices of these commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil, natural gas and NGLs have been volatile, and this volatility may continue in the future. The prices we receive for our production and the levels of our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  worldwide and regional economic and political conditions;. •  the domestic and global supply of, and demand for, oil, natural gas and NGLs;. •  the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and marketing oil, natural gas and NGLs;. •  the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of oil, natural gas and NGL pipelines and other transportation facilities;. •  the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil, natural gas and NGLs;. •  the level of global oil, natural gas and NGL exploration and production;. •  the level of global oil, natural gas and NGL inventories;. •  weather conditions and natural disasters;. •  domestic and foreign governmental laws, regulations and taxes;. •  volatile trading patterns in commodities futures markets;. •  price and availability of competitors' supplies of oil, natural gas and NGLs;. •  the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\") and the ability of OPEC and other producing nations to agree to and maintain production levels;. •  technological advances affecting energy consumption; and. •  the price and availability of alternative fuels.. 23. Further, oil, natural gas and NGL prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Because approximately 69% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2017 was attributed to oil, our financial results are more sensitive to movements in oil prices.. As of December 31, 2017, we had in place hedges covering approximately 4,695 Bbls/d for 2018 at an average price of approximately $52.64 per Bbl. To the extent we are unhedged, we have significant exposure to adverse changes in the prices of oil and natural gas that could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. WTI oil prices have declined from over $100 per bbl in September 2014 to $60.42 per bbl at December 31, 2017. Such a decline in oil price, if sustained, will have a material impact on our annual revenues and has caused us to take actions to reduce the costs of drilling and our operations.. Prolonged further sustained declines in oil, natural gas or NGL prices may act to reduce our cash flows further and adversely affect our financial condition. In the event of further sustained declines, our liquidity could be reduced, our access to equity or long-term debt might be restricted, and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments might be adversely affected. We may choose to defer drilling activity and/or production from existing wells for a number of reasons, including the following:. •  drilling activity is sanctioned on the expectation of matching the drilling budget with operating cash flows and securing reasonable rates of returns based on the then prevailing oil, natural gas and NGL prices; if those prices decline and operating cash flows are reduced, there is a risk that drilling may be curtailed or postponed; and. •  operating costs on our Eagle Ford properties are so low that production from these properties would likely continue to contribute to cash flows, but we may choose to defer production in the event that we consider there may be greater value in producing later.. Furthermore, prolonged sustained further declines in oil, natural gas or NGL prices may reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs we can produce economically and negatively impact the value of our estimated oil, natural gas and NGL reserves, the carrying value of our oil, natural gas and NGL reserves, the PV-10 valuations of our oil, natural gas and NGL reserves, and the standardized measure relating to oil, natural gas and NGL reserves.. Our future cash flows and results of operations are highly dependent on our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas resources.. Our business strategy is to generate profit through the acquisition, exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas reserves. Our future success therefore depends on our ability to find, develop or acquire additional crude oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves generally decline when produced, unless we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves or both. We may not be able to find, develop or acquire additional reserves on an economically viable basis. Furthermore, if crude oil and natural gas prices increase, the cost of finding, developing or acquiring additional reserves could also increase.. Drilling for and producing oil, natural gas and NGLs are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 24. Exploration and development activities involve numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be discovered and that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. In addition, the future cost and timing of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. Drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors, including:. •  lack of prospective acreage available on acceptable terms;. •  unexpected or adverse drilling conditions;. •  elevated pressure or irregularities in geologic formations;. •  equipment failures or accidents;. •  adverse weather conditions;. •  title problems;. •  limited availability of financing upon acceptable terms;. •  limitations in the market for oil, gas and NGLs;. •  reductions in oil, NGLs and natural gas prices;. •  compliance with governmental requirements, laws and regulations; and. •  shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs, equipment and personnel.. Even if our exploitation, development and drilling efforts are successful, our wells, once completed, may not produce reserves of crude oil, NGLs or natural gas that are economically viable or that meet our prior estimates of economically recoverable reserves. Unsuccessful drilling activities could result in a significant decline in our production and revenues and materially impact our operations and financial position by reducing our available cash and liquidity. In addition, the potential for production decline rates for our wells could be greater than we expect. Because of the risks and uncertainties inherent to our businesses, our future drilling results may not be comparable to our historical results.. Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves with resulting adverse effects on our cash flow and liquidity.. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We currently make, and expect to continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, development and exploration of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves. We currently expect to allocate between $95 million and $100 million under our 2018 capital program to drilling and completing approximately 17 gross (15 net) wells across our properties in the Eagle Ford.. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, crude oil and natural gas prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A reduction in commodity prices from current levels may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which would negatively impact our ability to grow production.. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of factors, including:. •  our proved reserves;. •  the amount of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs we are able to produce from existing wells;. •  the prices at which our crude oil, natural gas and NGLs are sold;. •  the costs at which our crude oil, natural gas and NGLs are extracted;. •  global credit and securities markets;. •  the ability and willingness of lenders and investors to provide capital and the cost of the capital; and. •  our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves and the cost of such reserves.. 25. If our revenues or the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreases as a result of lower crude oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations and growth at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If cash flow generated by our operations or available borrowings under the Credit Facility are not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our properties, which in turn could lead to a decline in our reserves and production, and would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any significant reduction in our borrowing base under the Credit Facility as a result of the periodic borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise may negatively impact our ability to fund our operations.. The Credit Facility limits the amounts we can borrow up to a borrowing base amount, which the lenders, in their sole discretion, determine semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year. The borrowing base depends on, among other things, our lenders' evaluation of our oil and natural gas reserves. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the Credit Facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of the lenders holding 100% of the commitments. Effective January 4, 2018, we received notification that the borrowing base for the Credit Facility was maintained at $160 million, which represents the November 2017 redetermination. Our next scheduled borrowing base redetermination is scheduled for May 1, 2018.. In the future, we may not have access to adequate funding under the Credit Facility as a result of a decrease in our borrowing base due to the issuance of new indebtedness, the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination or an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations and the inability of other lenders to provide additional funding to cover any defaulting lender's portion. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such a case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base. As a result, we may be unable to implement our drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out business plans or make required repayments under the Credit Facility, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our indebtedness.. Operating hazards, natural disasters or other interruptions of our operations could result in potential liabilities and substantial losses, which may not be fully covered by our insurance.. The oil and natural gas business involves significant operating hazards and risks such as:. •  well blowouts;. •  mechanical failures;. •  fires and explosions;. •  pipe or cement failures and casing collapses, which could release natural gas, oil, drilling fluids or hydraulic fracturing fluids;. •  uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids;. •  earthquakes and natural disasters;. •  geologic formations with abnormal pressures;. •  handling and disposal of materials, including drilling fluids and hydraulic fracturing fluids;. •  pipeline ruptures or spills;. •  releases of toxic gases; and. •  other environmental hazards and risks.. Any of these hazards and risks can result in the loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution, personal injury claims and other damage to our properties and the property of others.. 26. We maintain insurance against losses and liabilities in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that our management believes to be prudent. However, we are not insured against all operational risks and such coverage is not available to us. We do not carry business interruption insurance. We may elect not to carry insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented.. We could sustain significant losses and substantial liability for uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. We cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or that any particular types of coverage will be available. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Our planned exploratory drilling involves drilling in existing or emerging shale plays using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which are subject to risks. As a result, drilling results may not meet our expectations for reserves or production.. Our operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers in order to maximize cumulative recoveries and therefore generate the highest possible returns.. Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to:. •  landing our well bore in the desired formation;. •  staying in the desired formation while drilling horizontally through the formation;. •  running our casing the entire length of the well bore; and. •  being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the well bore.. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to:. •  being able to fracture and stimulate the planned number of stages;. •  being able to run tools the entire length of the well bore during completion operations; and. •  successfully cleaning out the well bore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.. The results of our drilling in new or emerging formations are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history, and, consequently, it is more difficult to predict future drilling results in these areas.. Ultimately, the success of these drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period. If our drilling does not meet our anticipated results or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, limited access to gathering systems and limited takeaway capacity and/or declines in crude oil and natural gas prices, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate. Further, as a result of any of these developments, we could incur material write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. We may not adhere to our proposed drilling schedule.. Our final determination of whether to drill any wells will be dependent on a number of factors, including:. •  the results of our exploration efforts and the acquisition, review, and analysis of the seismic data;. •  the availability of sufficient capital resources to us and the other participants for the drilling of the prospects;. •  the approval of the prospects by the other participants after additional data has been compiled;. •  economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and gas and the availability and prices of drilling rigs and crews;. •  the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects; and. •  reprioritization of drilling schedule based on the acquisition of new properties.. 27. Although we have identified or budgeted for numerous drilling prospects, we may not be able to lease or drill those prospects within our expected time frame or at all. Wells that are currently part of our capital plan may be based on statistical results of drilling activities in other 3-D project areas that we believe are geologically similar rather than on analysis of seismic or other data in the prospect area, in which case actual drilling and results are likely to vary, possibly materially, from those statistical results. In addition, our drilling schedule may vary from our expectations because of future uncertainties. In addition, our ability to produce oil and gas may be significantly affected by the availability and prices of hydraulic fracturing equipment and crews. There can be no assurance that these projects can be successfully developed or that any identified drill sites or budgeted wells will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive oil or gas. We may seek to sell or reduce all or a portion of our interest in a project area or with respect to prospects or budgeted wells within such project area.. SEC rules could limit our ability to book additional PUDs in the future.. SEC rules only permit, subject to limited exceptions, us to book our PUDs if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years after the date of booking. This requirement limits our ability to book additional PUDs as we pursue our drilling program. Moreover, we may be required to write down our PUDs if we do not drill those wells within the required five-year time frame.. Our identified drilling locations are subject to many uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill such locations.. Our final determination of whether to drill any scheduled or budgeted wells will be dependent on a number of factors, including:. •  the ongoing review and analysis of geologic and engineering data;. •  the availability of sufficient capital resources to us and the other participants to drill and complete the prospects;. •  the approval of the prospects by other participants once additional data has been compiled;. •  economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs and the availability and prices of drilling rigs and personnel;. •  the ability to maintain, extend or renew leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects;. •  additional due diligence;. •  regulatory requirements and restrictions; and. •  the opportunity to divert our drilling budget to preferred prospects on acquired acreage or to secure other acreage by farming in.. Although we have identified or budgeted for numerous drilling prospects, we may not be able to lease or drill those prospects within our expected time frame or at all. Wells that are currently part of our capital plan may be based on results of drilling activities in other areas that we believe are geologically similar to a prospect rather than on analysis of seismic or other data in the prospect area, in which case actual drilling and results are likely to vary, possibly materially, from results in other areas. In addition, our drilling schedule may vary from our expectations because of future uncertainties. In addition, our ability to produce oil and natural gas may be significantly affected by the availability and prices of equipment and personnel.. Our management team has specifically identified and scheduled certain drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including crude oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the numerous potential well locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas or oil from these or any other potential locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the potential locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. Therefore, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.. 28. In addition, we will require significant additional capital over a prolonged period in order to pursue the development of these locations, and we may not be able to raise or generate the capital required to do so. Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these potential locations may not be successful or result in the addition of proved reserves to our overall proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of our estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business and results of operations.. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.. The demand for drilling rigs, pipe and other equipment and supplies, as well as for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry, can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Our operations are concentrated in areas in which the oil and gas industry has historically increased rapidly, and as a result, demand for such drilling rigs, equipment and personnel, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas, and the costs for those items also increased. If we are unable to secure a sufficient number of drilling rigs at reasonable costs, we may not be able to drill all of our acreage before our leases expire.. Development of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves, or PUDs, may take longer than expected and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 75% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped reserves. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires successful drilling and incurrence of significant capital expenditures. Our approximately 55.2 MMBoe of estimated proved undeveloped reserves will require an estimated $845.4 million of development capital over the next five years. Development of these undeveloped reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Delays in the development of our reserves, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves, or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the PV-10 value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could require us to reclassify our proved undeveloped reserves as unproved reserves.. Further, our reserves data assumes that we can and will make these expenditures and that these operations will be conducted successfully. These assumptions, however, may not prove correct. If we choose not to spend the capital to develop these reserves, or if we are not otherwise able to successfully develop these reserves, we will be required to write them off. Any such write-offs of our reserves could reduce our ability to borrow and adversely affect our liquidity and available capital.. Our producing properties are located primarily in the Eagle Ford Shale of South Texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one geographic area.. All of our production during the year ended December 31, 2017 was derived from our properties in the Eagle Ford Shale region of South Texas. As a result of this geographic concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the effect of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, weather events or interruption of the processing or transportation of crude oil or natural gas. Additionally, we may be exposed to additional risks, such as changes in field-wide rules and regulations that could cause us to permanently or temporarily shut-in many or all of our wells within the Eagle Ford.. Approximately 70% of our net Eagle Ford Shale leasehold acreage is undeveloped, and that acreage may not ultimately be developed or become commercially productive, which could cause us to lose rights under our leases and result in a material adverse effect on our crude oil, natural gas and NGLs reserves and future production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 70% of our net Eagle Ford leasehold acreage is undeveloped, or acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. Unless production is established on the undeveloped acreage covered by our leases, such leases will expire. Our future crude oil, natural gas and NGLs reserves and production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income, are highly dependent on successfully developing our undeveloped leasehold acreage and holding on to such leases.. 29. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold assets are subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage or we timely exercise our contractual rights to extend the terms of such leases by continuous operations or the payment of lease extension payments or delay rentals.. Leases on oil and natural gas properties typically have a primary term of three to five years, after which they expire unless, prior to expiration, a well is drilled and production of hydrocarbons in paying quantities is established, applicable lease extension payments or delay rentals are made, or such lease is otherwise maintained pursuant to any applicable continuous operations provision. If our leases or term assignments on our undeveloped properties expire and we are unable to renew the leases, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. The primary term of the leases for 1,476 net acres that is not currently held by production will expire at the end of 2018 if such leases are not extended. Although we seek to actively manage our undeveloped properties, our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and productions costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals. If commodity prices remain low, we may be required to delay our drilling plans and, as a result, may lose our right to develop the related properties.. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate and any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the actual quantities and present value of such reserves.. There are uncertainties inherent in estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated value, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represents only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner and is based on assumptions that may vary considerably from actual results. Reservoir engineering also requires economic assumptions about matters such as crude oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Accordingly, actual production, crude oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, operating expenses, expenditures and quantities of recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves will likely vary, possibly materially, from estimates. Any significant variance in our estimates or the accuracy of our assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We depend upon several significant customers for the sale of most of our crude oil, natural gas and NGL production. The loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our revenues in the short term.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, purchases by our largest five customers accounted for 35%, 20%, 16%, 14%, and 10% respectively, of our total revenues. While we believe that we can procure substitute or additional customers to offset the loss of one or more of our current customers, there is no assurance that we would be successful in doing so on terms acceptable to us or at all. The loss of one or more of such customers could limit our access to suitable markets for the crude oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce. The availability of a ready market for any crude oil, natural gas and/or NGLs we produce depends on numerous factors beyond the control of our management, including but not limited to the extent of domestic production and imports of crude oil, the proximity and capacity of pipelines, the availability of skilled labor, materials and equipment, the effect of state and federal regulation of crude oil and natural gas production and federal regulation of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs sold in interstate commerce. We cannot assure you that we will continue to have ready access to suitable markets for our future crude oil, natural gas and NGL production.. Our hedging transactions expose us to counterparty credit risk.. Currently, all of our hedging arrangements are concentrated with three counterparties, each of which are lenders under the Credit Facility. If these counterparties fail to perform their obligations, we may suffer financial loss or be prevented from realizing the benefits of favorable price changes in the physical market for our crude oil, natural gas and NGLs.. 30. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.. The discounted future net cash flows in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves. The current requirements for crude oil and natural gas reserve estimation and disclosures require the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves to be based on the average of the sales price on the first day of each month in the applicable year, with costs determined as of the date of the estimate. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by various factors, including:. •  the actual prices we receive for crude oil and natural gas;. •  our actual operating costs in producing crude oil and natural gas;. •  the amount and timing of actual production;. •  supply and demand for crude oil and natural gas;. •  increases or decreases in consumption of crude oil and natural gas; and. •  changes in governmental laws and regulations or taxation.. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting requirements may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general.. We have incurred losses from operations for various periods since our inception and may continue to do so in the future.. We incurred a net loss from operations of approximately $31.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Our development of, and participation in, an increasingly larger number of prospects has required, and will continue to require, substantial capital expenditures. The uncertainty and factors described throughout this \"Risk Factors\" section may impede our ability to economically find, develop and acquire oil and natural gas reserves. As a result, we may not be able to operate profitability and may not receive positive cash flows from operating activities in the future, which could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our Class A voting common stock.. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income.. Because crude oil and natural gas prices are subject to volatility, we may periodically enter into price-risk-management transactions such as fixed-rate swaps, costless collars, puts, calls and basis differential swaps to reduce our exposure to price declines associated with a portion of our oil and natural gas production and thereby achieve a more predictable cash flow. The use of these arrangements limits our ability to benefit from increases in the prices of crude oil and natural gas. Our derivative arrangements may apply to only a portion of our production, thereby providing only partial protection against declines in crude oil and natural gas prices.. These arrangements may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which production is less than expected, our customers fail to purchase contracted quantities of crude oil and natural gas or a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts crude oil or natural gas prices. In addition, the counterparties under our derivatives contracts may fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us.. If crude oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to write-down the carrying values of our crude oil and natural gas properties.. We review our proved crude oil and natural gas properties for impairment whenever events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the recoverability of their carrying value may have occurred. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our crude oil and natural gas properties, which may result in a decrease in the amount we can borrow under our credit facility. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to borrow under our credit facility and adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity for the periods in which such charges are taken.. 31. Our inability to market our crude oil and natural gas could adversely affect our business.. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory crude oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to crude oil and natural gas markets or delay production. The availability of a ready market for our crude oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of crude oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and gathering facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on favorable terms could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Our productive properties may be located in areas with limited or no access to pipelines, thereby requiring compression facilities or delivery by other means, such as trucking and train. Such restrictions on our ability to sell our crude oil or natural gas may have several adverse effects, including higher transportation costs, fewer potential purchasers (thereby potentially resulting in a lower selling price) or, in the event we were unable to market and sustain production from a particular lease for an extended period of time, possibly causing us to lose leases due to the lack of commercially established production.. We generally deliver our crude oil and natural gas production through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own under interruptible or short-term transportation agreements. Under the interruptible transportation agreements, the transportation of our crude oil and natural gas production may be interrupted due to capacity constraints on the applicable system, for maintenance or repair of the system or for other reasons as dictated by the particular agreements. We may also enter into firm transportation arrangements for additional production in the future. Because we are obligated to pay fees on minimum volumes to our service providers under firm transportation agreements regardless of actual volume throughput, these firm transportation agreements may be significantly more costly than interruptible or short-term transportation agreements, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. A portion of our crude oil and natural gas production in any region may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents, loss of pipeline or gathering system access, or field personnel issues or strikes. We may also voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted or curtailed, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. If we fail to establish and maintain proper internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired.. Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that, beginning with our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2017, our management assess and report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and identify any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Once we are no longer an emerging growth company, Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require our independent registered public accounting firm to issue an annual report that addresses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. On November 21, 2016, our management identified a material weakness in the financial close process for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 relating to a failure to properly classify cash flows related to our gain on redemption of bonds, and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2016 was ineffective. Although this material weakness was remediated, the presence of further material weaknesses could result in financial statement errors which, in turn, could lead to errors in our financial reports and/or delays in our financial reporting, which could require us to restate our operating results or our auditors may be required to issue a qualified audit report.. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we will need to expend additional resources and provide additional management oversight. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, take a significant period of time to complete and divert management's attention from other business concerns. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal control.. 32. If either we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting or, at the appropriate time, our independent auditors are unwilling or unable to provide us with an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, investors may lose confidence in our operating results, the price of our Class A common stock could decline and we may be subject to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. In addition, if we are unable to meet the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may not be able to remain listed on Nasdaq.. The terms of the Credit Facility may restrict our operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions.. The Credit Facility contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, to:. •  incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness;. •  pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock;. •  prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;. •  issue certain preferred stock or similar equity securities;. •  make loans and investments;. •  sell assets;. •  incur liens;. •  enter into transactions with affiliates;. •  alter the businesses we conduct;. •  enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and. •  consolidate, amalgamate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the Credit Facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet them.. A breach of the covenants or restrictions or under the Credit Facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In the event our lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness.. As a result of these restrictions contained in the Credit Facility, we may be limited in how we conduct our business, unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. These restrictions may further affect our ability to grow in accordance with our strategy. In addition, our financial results, our substantial indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of our current and future financing.. 33. Our level of indebtedness may increase, reducing our financial flexibility.. We intend to fund our capital expenditures in 2018 through cash flow from operations and from borrowings under the Credit Facility and, if necessary, through debt or equity financings. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base and develop oil and natural gas reserves will be impaired if cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. If we incur additional debt for these or other purposes, the related risks that we now face could intensify and we could face additional risks. Our level of debt could adversely affect our business and results of operations in several important ways, including the following:. •  a portion of our cash flow from operations would be used to pay interest on borrowings;. •  the covenants contained in our credit facilities limit our ability to borrow additional funds, pay dividends, dispose of assets or issue shares of preferred stock and otherwise may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in general business and economic conditions;. •  a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes;. •  a leveraged financial position would make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and decreases in commodity prices and could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and. •  a debt that we incur under our credit facilities will be at variable rates, which could make us vulnerable to an increase in interest rates.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under applicable debt instruments, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness obligations, including the Credit Facility and senior notes, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness which would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. Increased costs of capital could adversely affect our business.. Our business and operating results can be adversely affected by factors such as the availability, terms and cost of capital and increases in interest rates. Changes in any one or more of these factors could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our access to capital, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce our cash flows available for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Disruptions in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability, which would impact our ability to finance our operations. We will require continued access to capital for the foreseeable future. A significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The crude oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive and many of our competitors have resources that are greater than ours.. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. Public integrated and independent oil and gas companies, private equity backed and private operators are all active bidders for desirable crude oil and natural gas properties as well as the equipment and personnel required to operate those properties. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial resources, staff and facilities than we do. There is a risk that increased industry competition will adversely impact our ability to purchase assets or secure services at prices that will allow us to generate sufficient returns on investment in the future.. 34. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or may be forced by competitive pressures to implement those new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other oil and natural gas companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and that may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures or implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. The loss of any of our key personnel could adversely affect our business, financial condition, the results of operations and future growth.. We are reliant on a number of key members of our executive management team, and we do not have employment agreements with any of them. Loss of such personnel may have an adverse effect on our performance. Certain areas in which we operate are highly competitive regions and competition for qualified personnel is intense. We may be unable to hire suitable field personnel for our technical team or there may be periods of time where a particular position remains vacant while a suitable replacement is identified and appointed. Our ability to manage our growth will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably.. Our ability to manage growth will have an impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our growth historically has been achieved through the acquisition of leaseholds and the expansion of our drilling programs. Future growth may place strains on our financial, technical, operational and administrative resources and cause us to rely more on project partners and independent contractors, potentially adversely affecting our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to grow will depend on a number of factors, including:. •  our ability to obtain leases or options on properties;. •  our ability to identify and acquire new exploratory prospects;. •  our ability to develop existing prospects;. •  our ability to continue to retain and attract skilled personnel;. •  our ability to maintain or enter into new relationships with project partners and independent contractors;. •  the results of our drilling programs;. •  commodity prices; and. •  our access to capital.. We may not be successful in upgrading our technical, operational and administrative resources or increasing our internal resources sufficiently to provide certain of the services currently provided by third parties, and we may not be able to maintain or enter into new relationships with project partners and independent contractors on financially attractive terms, if at all. If we are unable to achieve or manage growth, it may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 35. We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies.. We may lose title to, or interests in, our leases and other properties if the conditions to which those interests are subject are not satisfied or if we do not have sufficient funds available to meet the commitments.. The existence of title differences with respect to our crude oil and natural gas properties could reduce their value or render such properties worthless, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We do not obtain title insurance and have not obtained drilling title opinions on all of our crude oil and natural gas properties. As is customary in the industry in which we operate, we generally rely upon the judgment of crude oil and natural gas lease brokers or independent landmen who perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental offices and abstract facilities before attempting to acquire or place under lease a specific mineral interest and before drilling a well on a leased tract, and we generally make title investigations and receive title opinions of local counsel before we commence drilling operations. In some cases, we perform curative work to correct deficiencies in the marketability or adequacy of the title assigned to us. In cases involving more serious title problems, the amount paid for affected crude oil and natural gas leases can be lost, and the target area can become undrillable. While we undertake to cure all title deficiencies prior to drilling, the failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease, our investment in the well and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property. A significant portion of our acreage is undeveloped leasehold, which has a greater risk of title defects than developed acreage.. Our operations are subject to health, safety and environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. The conduct of exploring for, and producing oil, natural gas and NGLs may expose our personnel and other third parties to potentially dangerous working environments. Occupational health and safety legislation and regulations differ in each jurisdiction. If any of our employees suffer injury or death, compensation payments or fines may have to be paid, and such circumstances could result in the loss of a license or permit required to carry on the business, or other legislative sanction, all of which have the potential to materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. There is an inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations, some of which may be material, due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, our emissions to air and water, the underground injection or other disposal of our wastes and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we may be liable, regardless of whether we were at fault, for the full cost of removing or remediating contamination, even when multiple parties contributed to the release and the contaminants were released in compliance with all applicable laws. In addition, accidental spills or releases on our properties may expose us to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Aside from government agencies, the owners of properties where our wells are located, the operators of facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal and other private parties may be able to sue us to enforce compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as collect penalties for violations or obtain damages for any related personal injury or property damage. Some sites we operate are located near current or former third-party oil and natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly material handling, emission, waste management or clean-up requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance or may otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance.. In addition, our operations and financial performance may be adversely affected by governmental action, including delay, inaction, policy change or the introduction of new, or amendment of or changes in interpretation of existing legislation or regulations, particularly in relation to access to infrastructure, environmental regulation (including in respect of carbon emissions and management), royalties and production and exploration licensing. Federal and state regulators are increasingly targeting greenhouse gas emissions from oil and gas operations. While these regulatory efforts are evolving, they may require the installation of emission controls or mandate other action that may result in increased costs of operation, delay, uncertainty or exposure to liability.. 36. Hydraulic fracturing has recently come under increased scrutiny and could be the subject of further regulation that could impact the timing and cost of development.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of unconventional crude oil and natural gas wells. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into deep rock formations to stimulate crude oil or natural gas production. Currently, hydraulic fracturing is primarily regulated in the United States at the state level, which generally focuses on regulation of well design, pressure testing and other operating practices. However, some states and local jurisdictions across the United States, including states in which we operate, have begun adopting more restrictive regulation, including measures such as:. •  required disclosure of chemicals used during the hydraulic fracturing process;. •  restrictions on wastewater disposal activities;. •  required baseline and post-drilling sampling of water supplies in close proximity to hydraulic fracturing operations;. •  new municipal or state land use regulations, such as changes in setback requirements, which may restrict drilling locations or related activities;. •  financial assurance requirements, such as the posting of bonds, to secure site restoration obligations; and. •  local moratoria or even bans on crude oil and natural gas development utilizing hydraulic fracturing in some communities.. The Texas Railroad Commission recently adopted rules and regulations requiring that the well operator disclose the list of chemical ingredients subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (\"OSHA\") for disclosure on an internet website and also file the list of chemicals with the Texas Railroad Commission with the well completion report. The total volume of water used to hydraulically fracture a well also must be disclosed to the public and filed with the Texas Railroad Commission. Any increased federal, state, local, foreign, or international regulation of hydraulic fracturing could reduce the volume of reserves that we can economically recover, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. At the U.S. federal level, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published permitting guidance in February 2014 addressing the performance of such activities. Also, in May 2014, the EPA issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to collect data on chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing operations under Section 8 of the Toxic Substances Control Act. To date, no other action has been taken. Further, the EPA finalized regulations under the CWA in June 2016 that prohibit wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and certain other natural gas operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. Also, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The final report concluded that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources \"under some circumstances,\" noting that the following hydraulic fracturing water cycle activities and local- or regional-scale factors are more likely than others to result in more frequent or more severe impacts: water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability; surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water; injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity; injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources; discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters; and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. In addition, the BLM finalized rules in March 2015 that impose new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and American Indian lands (which was challenged in a U.S. federal trial court, resulting in a decision in June 2016 against the rule, an appeal of that decision, and a U.S. federal appeals court ruling in September 2017 dismissing the appeals and vacating the trial court decision); the rule is currently the subject of a July 2017 proposal by the BLM to rescind it.. There has been increasing public controversy regarding hydraulic fracturing with regard to use of fracturing fluids, impacts on drinking water supplies, use of water and the potential for impacts on surface water, and groundwater and, the potential for the disposal of produced water in underground formations to trigger earthquakes, and effects on the environment generally. A number of lawsuits and enforcement actions have been initiated across the country relating to hydraulic fracturing practices. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations as well as make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is further regulated at the federal or state level, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, plugging and abandonment requirements and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Such legislative changes could cause us to incur substantial compliance costs, and compliance or the consequences of any failure to comply by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At this time, it is not possible to estimate the impact on our business of newly enacted or potential federal or state legislation governing hydraulic fracturing.. 37. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.. Under the Domenici-Barton Energy Policy Act of 2005 (\"EP Act of 2005\"), the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (\"FERC\") has civil penalty authority under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (the \"NGA\") and the Natural Gas Policy Act (\"NGPA\") to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,213,503 per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional operations to FERC annual reporting and posting requirements. We also must comply with the anti-market manipulation rules enforced by FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability.. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to crude oil, natural gas and NGLs, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs. The impact of the changing demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our ability to produce crude oil and natural gas economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations or are unable to dispose of or recycle the water we use economically and in an environmentally safe manner.. Drilling activities require the use of water. For example, the hydraulic fracturing process that we employ to produce commercial quantities of oil and natural gas from many reservoirs, including in the Eagle Ford, requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. In certain areas, there may be insufficient local aquifer capacity to provide a source of water for drilling activities due to drought conditions. Water must be obtained from other sources and transported to the drilling site. The effects of climate change may further exacerbate water scarcity in certain regions. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources, we may be unable to economically produce our reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in our operations, could adversely impact our operations in certain areas. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other materials associated with the exploration, development or production of crude oil and natural gas. In particular, regulatory focus on disposal of produced water and drilling waste through underground injection has increased because of alleged links between such injection and regional seismic impacts in disposal areas. For example, regulators in some states, including Texas, have responded to the potential concern that the injection of produced water (and other waste water from oil and gas operations) into underground disposal wells may trigger seismic activity.. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage, use and discharge of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 38. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the crude oil and natural gas that we produce while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. In connection with the EPA finding that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\") present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act (\"CAA\") that, among other things, require reduced GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources, and the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore oil and gas production sources in the United States on an annual basis, which include certain of our operations. In May 2016, the EPA released final regulations intended to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas industry, including throughout the natural gas supply chain. The regulations could affect us indirectly by affecting our customer base or by directly regulating our operations. In either case, increased costs of operation and exposure to liability could result. However, on June 12, 2017, EPA proposed a two year stay of the fugitive emissions, pneumatic pump and professional engineer certification requirements in the methane rule while the agency reconsiders the rule.  The EPA has also announced that it intends to propose similar standards for existing sources but the change in Presidential Administrations may impact any existing source rule. The EPA also finalized rules in 2016 that clarify when crude oil and natural gas sites should be aggregated for purposes of air permitting, which could increase our compliance and permitting costs.. In addition, Congress has considered legislation to restrict or regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane that are understood to contribute to global warming. While comprehensive climate legislation will likely not be passed by either house of Congress in the near future, energy legislation and other initiatives continue to be proposed that may be relevant to greenhouse gas emissions issues. In December 2016, the United States was one of 175 countries to adopt the Paris Agreement at the 21st Conference of Parties, which requires member countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals, every five years beginning in 2020. On October 4, 2016, the E.U. ratified the Paris Agreement, thus meeting the threshold for the agreement to come into force. On June 1, 2017, President Trump announced that the United States planned to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or establish a new framework agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process is uncertain and/or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. Acts of terrorism (including eco-terrorism and cyber-attacks) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our assets and operations, and the assets and operations of our providers of gas gathering, processing, transportation and fractionation services, may be targets of terrorist activities (including eco-terrorist and cyber-terrorist activities) that could disrupt our business or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or partial disruption to our ability to produce, process, transport, market or distribute natural gas, NGLs and oil. Acts of terrorism, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with acts of terrorism, could cause environmental and other repercussions that could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, acts of terrorism, and the threat of such acts, could result in volatility in the prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil and could affect the markets for such commodities.. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber-security threats, and other disruptions.. As an oil and natural gas producer, we face various security threats, including cyber-security threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable, threats to the safety of our employees, threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or third-party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines, and threats from terrorist acts. Cyber-security attacks in particular are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and protect against these threats and to mitigate our exposure to such threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. 39. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $99.4 million of U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\"). Our NOLs begin to expire in 2030. Utilization of these NOLs depends on many factors, including our future income, which cannot be assured. In addition, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (\"Section 382\"), generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income that may be offset by NOLs when a corporation has undergone an \"ownership change\" (as determined under Section 382). Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a corporation's stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years. We have previously experienced an ownership change and may experience more ownership changes in the future, which would result in an annual limitation under Section 382. The limitations arising from our prior ownership change or from any ownership change that may arise in the future may prevent utilization of our NOLs prior to their expiration. Future ownership changes or regulatory changes could further limit our ability to utilize our NOLs. To the extent we are not able to offset our future income with our NOLs, this could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows if we attain profitability.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which significantly reforms the Code. The TCJA, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including a permanent reduction of the corporate income tax rate, a partial limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, limitation of the deduction for certain NOLs to 80% of current year taxable income, an indefinite carryforward of certain NOLs, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time and the modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits. We continue to examine the impact of this tax reform legislation, and as its overall impact is uncertain, we note that the TCJA could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The impact of this tax reform legislation on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse.. General economic conditions could adversely affect our business and future growth.. Instability in the global financial markets may have a material impact on our liquidity and financial condition, and we may ultimately face major challenges if conditions in the financial markets were to materially change or worsen. Our ability to access the capital markets or to borrow money may be restricted or may be more expensive at a time when we would need to raise capital, which could have an adverse effect on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions and on our ability to fund our operations and capital expenditures in the future. Such economic conditions could have an impact on our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. In addition, such changes could have an impact on the liquidity of our operating partners, resulting in delays in operations or their failure to make required payments.. Also, market conditions could have an impact on our crude oil and natural gas derivative instruments if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection, which could lead to reductions in the demand for crude oil and natural gas, or reductions in the prices of oil and natural gas or both, which could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. While the ultimate outcome and impact of changing economic conditions cannot be predicted, they may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in the differential between benchmark prices of crude oil and natural gas and the reference or regional index price used to price our actual crude oil and natural gas sales could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The reference or regional index prices that we use to price our crude oil and natural gas sales reflect a discount to the relevant benchmark prices. The difference between the benchmark price and the price we reference in our sales contracts is called a differential. We cannot accurately predict crude oil and natural gas differentials. Changes in differentials between the benchmark price for crude oil and natural gas and the reference or regional index price we reference in our sales contracts could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 40. Recent federal legislation could have an adverse impact on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effects of commodity prices, interest rates and other risks associated with our business.. Historically, we have entered into a number of commodity derivative contracts in order to hedge a portion of our crude oil and natural gas production. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (\"Dodd-Frank Act\"), the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (\"CFTC\") issued regulations setting position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions are exempt from these limits. The position limits regulation was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012. The CFTC has appealed the District Court's decision and its Chairman has stated that the agency is working on developing a new proposed rulemaking to address position limits. The CFTC has finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the \"swap\" and \"swap dealer\" definitions, swap dealer registration, swap data reporting and mandatory clearing, among others. The Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules also will require us in connection with certain derivatives activities to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). In addition, new regulations may require us to comply with margin requirements although these regulations are not finalized and their application to us is uncertain at this time. The legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative contracts to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty.. The new legislation and any new regulations could:. •  significantly increase the cost of some derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral that could adversely affect our available liquidity);. •  materially alter the terms of some derivative contracts;. •  reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks we encounter;. •  reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts; and. •  potentially increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties.. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the new legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of crude oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to crude oil and natural gas. If the new legislation and regulations result in lower commodity prices, our revenues could be adversely affected. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions, and the integration of significant acquisitions may be difficult.. In accordance with our business strategies, we periodically evaluate acquisitions of reserves, properties, prospects and leaseholds and other strategic transactions that appear to fit within our overall business strategy. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:. •  recoverable reserves;. •  future crude oil and natural gas prices and their appropriate differentials;. •  development and operating costs; and. •  potential environmental and other liabilities.. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential recoverable reserves. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems may not be observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an \"as is\" basis.. 41. Significant acquisitions and other strategic transactions may also involve other risks, including:. •  diversion of our management's attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions;. •  the challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with those of our operations while carrying on our ongoing business;. •  difficulty associated with coordinating geographically separate organizations; and. •  the challenge of attracting and retaining personnel associated with acquired operations.. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer.. In addition, even if we successfully integrate an acquisition, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits we may expect, including with respect to estimated proved reserves, production volume or cost savings from operating synergies, within our expected time frame. Anticipated benefits of an acquisition may also be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity prices in crude oil and natural gas industry conditions, risks and uncertainties relating to the exploratory prospects of the combined assets or operations, or an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties. Failure to realize the benefits we anticipate from an acquisition may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our Class A voting common stock.. Certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including:. •  requiring advance notice of stockholder intention to put forth director nominees or bring up other business at a stockholders' meeting;. •  requiring the affirmative vote of 66 2/3% of the voting power of all then outstanding shares of Class A common stock entitled to vote in order for stockholders to adopt, amend or repeal any provision of our bylaws or certificate of incorporation; and. •  providing that the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time by our board of directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships) or by the stockholders. Newly created directorships resulting from any increase in our authorized number of directors will be filled only by a majority vote of our board of directors then in office, whether or not such directors number less than a quorum, and directors so chosen will serve for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office to which they have been elected expires or until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.. In addition, we entered into a Board Representation Agreement (\"Board Representation Agreement\") with EF Realisation and securities purchase agreements with Chambers and Leucadia National Corporation pursuant to which these stockholders are each entitled to nominate a number of directors so long as certain ownership thresholds are maintained. Please read Note 14. Related Party Activities.. 42. Our bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.. Our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our certificate of incorporation described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our bylaws inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations."
