[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, and all other information included in this Form 10-K, before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and investors may lose part or all of their investment.. General economic factors may adversely affect our results of operations.. The impact of inflation on food, labor and other aspects of our business can adversely affect our results of operations. Commodity inflation in food, beverages, and utilities can also impact our financial performance. Although we attempt to offset the effects of inflation through periodic menu price increases, cost controls, and incremental improvement in operating margins, we may not be able to completely eliminate such effects, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our ability to service our debt obligations is primarily dependent upon our future financial performance.. As of August 30, 2017, we had shareholders' equity of approximately $144 million compared to approximately:. • $31.0 million of long-term debt comprised of $26.6 million 5-year Term Loan and $4.4 million 5-year Revolver;. • $66.2 million of minimum operating and capital lease commitments; and. • $1.3 million of standby letters of credit.. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations depends on our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations and proceeds for assets held for sale.. If we are unable to service our debt obligations, we may have to:. • delay spending on maintenance projects and other capital projects, including new restaurant development;. • sell assets;. • restructure or refinance our debt; or. • sell equity securities.. 10. Our debt, and the covenants contained in the instruments governing our debt, could:. • result in a reduction of our credit rating, which would make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operating activities to the repayment of our debt and the interest associated with our debt;. • limit our operating flexibility due to financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on capital investments, debt levels, incurring additional debt and creating liens on our properties;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have relatively less debt;. • expose us to interest rate risk because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; and. • make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business.. If we are unable to service our debt obligations, we may not be able to sell equity securities, sell additional assets, or restructure or refinance our debt. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness is subject to market conditions and other factors which are beyond our control.. We face the risk of adverse publicity and litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance.. We may from, time to time, be the subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Unfavorable publicity relating to one or more of our restaurants or to the restaurant industry in general may taint public perception of the Luby's Cafeteria and Fuddruckers brands. Multi-unit restaurant businesses can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness, or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. Publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect our business and financial performance, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. In addition, we are subject to employee claims alleging injuries, wage and hour violations, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace, employment, and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are ultimately determined to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend, and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our financial performance. A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, for any claims could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to risks related to the provision of employee healthcare benefits, worker's compensation and employee injury claims.. Health insurance coverage is provided through fully-insured contracts with insurance carriers. Insurance premiums are a shared cost between the Company and covered employees.  The liability for covered health claims is borne by the insurance carriers per the terms of each policy contract.. Workers' compensation coverage is provided through \"self-insurance\" by LFR. We record expenses under the plan based on estimates of the costs of expected claims, administrative costs, stop-loss insurance premiums, and expected trends. These estimates are then adjusted each year to reflect actual costs incurred. Actual costs under these plans are subject to variability that is dependent upon demographics and the actual costs of claims made. In the event our cost estimates differ from actual costs, we could incur additional unplanned costs, which could adversely impact our financial condition.. In March 2010, comprehensive healthcare reform legislation under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the \"Affordable Care Act\") and Healthcare Education and Affordability Reconciliation Act was passed and signed into law. Among other things, the healthcare reform legislation includes mandated coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and healthcare benefits. Although requirements were phased in over a period of time, the most impactful provisions began in the third quarter of fiscal 2015.. 11. Due to the breadth and complexity of the healthcare reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations in some cases, and interpretive guidance, and the phased-in nature of the implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the healthcare reform legislation on our business and the businesses of our franchisees over the coming years. Possible adverse effects of the healthcare reform legislation include reduced revenues, increased costs and exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or risk of loss of business. It is also possible that healthcare plans offered by other companies with which we compete for employees will make us less attractive to our current or potential employees. And in any event, implementing the requirements of the Affordable Care Act has imposed some additional administrative costs on us, and those costs may increase over time. In addition, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our franchisees face the potential of similar adverse effects, and many of them are small business owners who may have significant difficulty absorbing the increased costs.. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively or if customer preferences change, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive and is affected by changes in customer tastes and dietary habits and by national, regional and local economic conditions and demographic trends. New menu items, concepts, and trends are constantly emerging. Our Luby's Cafeteria brand offer a large variety of entrées, side dishes and desserts and our continued success depends, in part, on the popularity of our cuisine and cafeteria-style dining. A change away from this cuisine or dining style could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our Fuddruckers brand offers grilled-to-order burgers that feature always fresh and never frozen, 100% USDA premium-cut beef with no fillers or additives and sesame-topped buns baked from scratch on-site throughout the day. While burgers are the signature, the engaging menu offers variety for many tastes with an array of sandwiches, platters and salads. Changing customer preferences, tastes and dietary habits can adversely affect our business and financial performance. We compete on quality, variety, value, service, concept, price, and location with well-established national and regional chains, as well as with locally owned and operated restaurants. We face significant competition from family-style restaurants, fast-casual restaurants, and buffets as well as fast food restaurants. In addition, we also face growing competition as a result of the trend toward convergence in grocery, delicatessen, and restaurant services, particularly in the supermarket industry, which offers \"convenient meals\" in the form of improved entrées and side dishes from the delicatessen section. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do. We also compete with other restaurants and retail establishments for restaurant sites and personnel. We anticipate that intense competition will continue. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our growth plan may not be successful.. Depending on future economic conditions, we may not be able to open new restaurants in current or future fiscal years. Our ability to open and profitably operate new restaurants is subject to various risks such as the identification and availability of suitable and economically viable locations, the negotiation of acceptable terms for the purchase or lease of new locations, the need to obtain all required governmental permits (including zoning approvals) on a timely basis, the need to comply with other regulatory requirements, the availability of necessary contractors and subcontractors, the availability of construction materials and labor, the ability to meet construction schedules and budgets, the ability to manage union activities such as picketing or hand billing which could delay construction, increases in labor and building materials costs, the availability of financing at acceptable rates and terms, changes in weather or other acts of God that could result in construction delays and adversely affect the results of one or more restaurants for an indeterminate amount of time, our ability to hire and train qualified management personnel and general economic and business conditions. At each potential location, we compete with other restaurants and retail businesses for desirable development sites, construction contractors, management personnel, hourly employees and other resources.. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, we could face increased costs and lower than anticipated revenues and earnings in future periods. We may be evaluating acquisitions or engaging in acquisition negotiations at any given time. We cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to identify acquisition candidates on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we make additional acquisitions, we also cannot be sure that any benefits anticipated from the acquisition will actually be realized. Likewise, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary financing for acquisitions. Such financing could be restricted by the terms of our debt agreements or it could be more expensive than our current debt. The amount of such debt financing for acquisitions could be significant and the terms of such debt instruments could be more restrictive than our current covenants. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn would adversely affect our ability to open new stores or upgrade existing units and we may not be able to maintain the existing number of restaurants in future fiscal years. We may not be able to renew existing leases and various other risks could cause a decline in the number of restaurants in future fiscal years, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. 12. Non-performance under the debt covenants in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business.. On November 8, 2016, we refinanced our outstanding long-term debt of $37.0 million with a new senior secured $65.0 million credit agreement which includes a $35.0 million five-year term loan and an up to $30.0 million bank revolver. At the time of the refinancing, our long term debt balance was $42.0 million, of which $7.0 million was outstanding on our new bank revolver. Our debt covenants require certain minimum levels of financial performance as well as certain financial ratios. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our loans outstanding and affect our ability to refinance by the termination date of November 8, 2021. For a more detailed discussion of our credit agreement please review the footnotes to our financial statements located in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.. Regional events can adversely affect our financial performance.. Many of our restaurants and franchises are located in Texas, California and in the northern United States. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by economic conditions in Texas, California or the northern United States or the occurrence of an event of terrorism or natural disaster in any of the communities in which we operate. Also, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity relating to our restaurants could have a pronounced adverse effect on our overall revenues. Although we generally maintain property and casualty insurance to protect against property damage caused by casualties and natural disasters, inclement weather, flooding, hurricanes, and other acts of God, these events can adversely impact our sales by discouraging potential customers from going out to eat or by rendering a restaurant or CCS location inoperable for a significant amount of time.. An increase in the minimum wage and regulatory mandates could adversely affect our financial performance.. From time to time, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures have increased and will consider increases in the minimum wage. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive, and if the minimum wage is increased, we may not be able to transfer all of the resulting increases in operating costs to our customers in the form of price increases. In addition, because our business is labor intensive, shortages in the labor pool or other inflationary pressure could increase labor costs that could adversely affect our results of operations.. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges.. We assess our long-lived assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (\"GAAP\") and determine when they are impaired. Based on market conditions and operating results, we may be required to record additional impairment charges, which would reduce expected earnings for the periods in which they are recorded.. We may not be able to realize our deferred tax assets.. Our ability to realize our deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate taxable income in the future. If we are unable to generate enough taxable income in the future, we may be required to adjust our valuation allowance related to our remaining net deferred tax assets which would reduce expected earnings for the periods in which they are recorded.. We may be harmed by security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer and employee information.. We accept electronic payment cards for payment in our restaurants. During fiscal 2017, approximately 75% of our restaurant sales were attributable to credit and debit card transactions, and credit and debit card usage could continue to increase. A number of retailers have experienced actual or potential security breaches in which credit and debit card information may have been stolen, including a number of highly publicized incidents with well-known retailers in recent years.. We may in the future become subject to additional claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of credit or debit card information, and we may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings in the future relating to these types of incidents. Proceedings related to theft of credit or debit card information may be brought by payment card providers, banks and credit unions that issue cards, cardholders (either individually or as part of a class action lawsuit) and federal and state regulators. Any such proceedings could distract our management from running our business and cause us to incur significant unplanned losses and expenses. Consumer perception of our brand could also be negatively affected by these events, which could further adversely affect our results and prospects.. 13. We also are required to collect and maintain personal information about our employees, and we collect information about customers as part of some of our marketing programs as well. The collection and use of such information is regulated at the federal and state levels, and the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. At the same time, we are relying increasingly on cloud computing and other technologies that result in third parties holding significant amounts of customer or employee information on our behalf. If the security and information systems of ours or of outsourced third party providers we use to store or process such information are compromised or if we, or such third parties, otherwise fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face litigation and the imposition of penalties that could adversely affect our financial performance. Our reputation as a brand or as an employer could also be adversely affected from these types of security breaches or regulatory violations, which could impair our sales or ability to attract and keep qualified employees.. Labor shortages or increases in labor costs could adversely affect our business and results of operations and the pace of new restaurant openings.. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including regional managers, restaurant general managers and chefs, in a manner consistent with our standards and expectations. Qualified individuals that we need to fill these positions are in short supply and competition for these employees is intense. If we are unable to recruit and retain sufficient qualified individuals, our operations and reputation could be adversely affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs. Any increase in labor costs could adversely affect our results of operations.. If we are unable to anticipate and react to changes in food, utility and other costs, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Many of the food and beverage products we purchase are affected by commodity pricing, and as such, are subject to price volatility caused by production problems, shortages, weather or other factors outside of our control. Our profitability depends, in part, on our successfully anticipating and reacting to changes in the prices of commodities. Therefore, we enter into purchase commitments with suppliers when we believe that it is advantageous for us to do so. If commodity prices were to increase, we may be forced to absorb the additional costs rather than transfer these increases to our customers in the form of menu price increases. Our success also depends, in part, on our ability to absorb increases in utility costs. Our operating results are affected by fluctuations in the price of utilities. Our inability to anticipate and respond effectively to an adverse change in any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations.. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. We are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local authorities relating to health, healthcare, employee medical plans, sanitation, safety and fire standards, building codes and liquor licenses, federal and state laws governing our relationships with employees (including the Fair Labor Standards Act and applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime, unemployment tax rates, family leave, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards, healthcare and citizenship requirements), federal and state laws which prohibit discrimination, potential healthcare benefits legislative mandates, and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990.. As a publicly traded corporation, we are subject to various rules and regulations as mandated by the SEC and the NYSE. Failure to timely comply with these rules and regulations could result in penalties and negative publicity.. We are subject to federal regulation and certain state laws which govern the offer and sale of franchises. Many state franchise laws contain provisions that supersede the terms of franchise agreements, including provisions concerning the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Some state franchise laws require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in that state. The failure to obtain or retain licenses or approvals to sell franchises could adversely affect us and the franchisees.. 14. Termination of franchise agreements may disrupt restaurant performance.. Our franchise agreements are subject to termination by us in the event of default by the franchisee after applicable cure periods. Upon the expiration of the initial term of a franchise agreement, the franchisee generally has an option to renew the franchise agreement for an additional term. There is no assurance that franchisees will meet the criteria for renewal or will desire or be able to renew their franchise agreements. If not renewed, a franchise agreement, and payments required there under, will terminate. We may be unable to find a new franchisee to replace a non-renewing franchisee. Furthermore, while we will be entitled to terminate franchise agreements following a default that is not cured within the applicable grace period, if any, the disruption to the performance of the restaurants could adversely affect our business and revenues.. Franchisees may breach the terms of their franchise agreements in a manner that adversely affects the reputation of our brands.. Franchisees are required to conform to specified product quality standards and other requirements pursuant to their franchise agreements in order to protect our brands and to optimize restaurant performance. However, franchisees may receive through the supply chain or produce sub-standard food or beverage products, which may adversely impact the reputation of our brands. Franchisees may also breach the standards set forth in their respective franchise agreements. Any negative actions could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our business and revenues.. We might not fully realize the benefits from the acquisition of Cheeseburger in Paradise.. On December 6, 2012, we completed the acquisition of all the Membership Units of Paradise Restaurants Group, LLC and certain of their affiliates, collectively known as Cheeseburger in Paradise. The integration of the 23 Cheeseburger in Paradise restaurants into our operations presented significant difficulties and did not result in realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings and operational efficiencies that we expected. We closed 15 locations in fiscal 2014. We converted several closed Cheeseburger in Paradise locations to Fuddruckers and continue to consider this as an alternative for remaining closed locations. As of November 7, 2017 we continue to operate 7 locations as Cheeseburger in Paradise restaurants.. Our planned CCS expansion may not be successful.. Successful expansion of our CCS operations depends on our ability to obtain new clients as well as retain and renew our existing client contracts. Our ability to do so generally depends on a variety of factors, including the quality, price and responsiveness of our services, as well as our ability to market these services effectively and differentiate ourselves from our competitors. We may not be able to renew existing client contracts at the same or higher rates or our current clients may turn to competitors, cease operations, or elect to self-operate or terminate contracts with us. The failure to renew a significant number of our existing contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Failure to collect account receivables could adversely affect our results of operations.. A portion of our accounts receivable is concentrated in our CCS operations among several customers. In addition, our franchises generate significant accounts receivables. Failure to collect from several of these accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations.. If we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business could suffer.. The success of our business is highly dependent upon our key management personnel, particularly Christopher J. Pappas, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Peter Tropoli, our Chief Operating Officer. The loss of the services of any key management personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our business.. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, and, as a result, our results of operations for any given quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, our highest earnings have occurred in the third quarter of the fiscal year, as our revenues in most of our restaurants have typically been higher during the third quarter of the fiscal year. Similarly, our results of operations for any single quarter will not necessarily be indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year.. 15. Economic factors affecting financial institutions could affect our access to capital.. We refinanced our 2013 Credit Facility on November 8, 2016 to a new senior secured credit agreement and it matures on November 8, 2021. We may not be able to amend or renew the new facility with terms and conditions favorable to our operating needs.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business.. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan depends in part on our ability to further build brand recognition using our trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos, and the unique ambience of our restaurants. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, either in print or on the internet, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and might prevent our brands from achieving or maintaining market acceptance. We may also encounter claims from prior users of similar intellectual property in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations. This could harm our image, brand or competitive position and cause us to incur significant penalties and costs."
