[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The life sciences industries are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and we may not have the technologies and resources necessary to compete successfully.. We compete with companies in the United States and abroad that are engaged in the development and production of similar products. We will continue to face intense competition from existing competitors and other companies seeking to develop and commercialize new technologies. Many of our competitors have access to greater financial, technical, scientific, research, marketing, sales, distribution, service and other resources than we do and may have longer operating histories or more recognizable brand names. These companies may develop technologies that are superior alternatives to our technologies or may be more effective at commercializing their technologies in products.. The life sciences industries are characterized by rapid and continuous technological innovation. We may need to develop new technologies for our products to remain competitive. One or more of our current or future competitors could render our present or future products or those of our partners obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances, including the introduction or existence of, competing products or technologies that may be more effective, cheaper or easier to use than our products and technologies. In addition, the introduction or announcement of new products by us or others could result in a delay of or decrease in sales of existing products as we await regulatory approvals, while customers evaluate these new products, or if customers choose to purchase the new products instead of legacy products. We may also encounter other problems in the process of delivering new products to the marketplace such as problems related to design, development, supply chain or manufacturing of such products, and as a result we may be unsuccessful in selling such products. Our future success depends on our ability to compete effectively against current technologies, as well as to respond effectively to technological advances by developing and marketing products that are competitive in the continually changing technological landscape.. Several companies provide systems and reagents for DNA amplification or detection. Life Technologies Corporation (a Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. brand) and F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd. (Roche) sell systems integrating DNA amplification and detection (sequence detection systems) to the commercial market. Life Technologies Corporation  (a Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. brand), Roche, Abbott Laboratories, Becton Dickinson and Company, Qiagen N.V., Hologic, Inc., Meridian Bioscience, Inc., bioMérieux S.A., Illumina, Inc. and Quidel Corporation sell sequence detection systems, some with separate robotic batch DNA purification systems, and they also sell reagents to the clinical diagnostics market. Other companies offer molecular diagnostic tests. Additionally, we anticipate that in the future, additional competitors will emerge that offer a broad range of competing products, including increasing adoption of competitive products based on mass spectrometry and next generation sequences test technologies.. If we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets.. We sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving customer needs and industry standards. Many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities and established distribution channels to deliver products to customers. Our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technologies that do not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. The success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to:. •accurately anticipate customer needs;. •innovate and develop new technologies and applications;. •obtain required regulatory clearances;. •successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner;. •price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time; and. •differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings.. 22. Many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. We must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers' expectations. In developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. If we fail to accurately foresee our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. We may also suffer a loss in market share and potential revenue if we are unable to commercialize our products in a timely and efficient manner.. Currently, a limited number of direct customers and strategic partners account for a significant portion of our revenue and the loss of any one of these or their inability to perform to expectations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Our success depends significantly on the establishment and maintenance of successful relationships with our direct customers and strategic partners.. LabCorp, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., and Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., accounted for 41% of total revenue (20%, 15% and 6%, respectively) in the twelve months ended December 31, 2017.  For comparative purposes, these same three companies accounted for 40% of total revenue (20%, 13% and 7%, respectively) in the twelve months ended December 31, 2016 and 45% of total revenue (24%, 13% and 8%, respectively) in the twelve months ended December 31, 2015.   No other customer accounted for more than 5% of total revenue during the twelve months ended December 31, 2017.  In total, for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, our top five customers accounted for 48% and 49%, respectively, of our total revenue.  The loss of any of our significant direct customers, strategic partners, or the loss of a material portion of the sales to these customers or partners could have a material adverse effect on our growth and future results of operations.. Based upon an extension agreement entered into in the third quarter of 2017, the Company will continue to sell its CF products to the Company's largest customer, LabCorp, through the end of 2019, after which LabCorp may transfer its CF business to an alternative technology.  Also, as previously stated in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, LabCorp has elected to develop the next iteration of one of their women's health products with another party. We have negotiated significant minimum women's health purchases from LabCorp through June 2018, pursuant to which  LabCorp committed to acquire no less than $63.1 million of our women's health products from January 1, 2017 through June 30, 2018. In 2017, LabCorp acquired approximately $36 million of our women's health products. The anticipated future loss of the LabCorp business could have a material adverse effect on our growth and future results of operations if we are unable to effectively attract new customers and/or increase sales with existing customers.. Delays in implementation, delays in obtaining regulatory approval, changes in strategy, or the financial difficulty of our strategic partners for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our ability to enter into agreements with additional strategic partners depends in part on convincing them that our products   can help achieve and accelerate their goals or efforts. We expend substantial funds and management efforts with no assurance that any additional strategic relationships will result. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to negotiate additional strategic agreements in the future on acceptable terms, if at all, or that current or future strategic partners will not pursue or develop alternative technologies either on their own or in collaboration with others. Some of the companies we are targeting as strategic partners offer products competitive with our xMAP technology, which may hinder or prevent strategic relationships.  Delays in implementation of new products by our strategic partners, changes in their strategy, financial difficulties they experience, or delays in obtaining or their inability to obtain regulatory approval for their products could negatively affect our business.  Termination of strategic relationships, the failure to enter into a sufficient number of additional strategic relationships on favorable terms, or disputes with our partners could reduce sales of our products, lower margins on our products and limit the market demand for and acceptance of our products.. As we pursue the development and registration of products, regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries will be a significant factor in the development, testing, production, and marketing of such products. Products that we develop in the molecular diagnostic markets will be regulated as medical devices by the FDA and other global governmental authorities and may require receipt of clearance following a pre-market notification process prior to marketing. Obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay. Changes to the current regulatory framework, including additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval of our products.. 23. As we continue to expand our business, we may experience problems in scaling our manufacturing operations, or delays or component shortages that could limit the growth of our revenue.. As we continue to expand our manufacturing capabilities in order to meet our growth objectives, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of products or maintain consistency between differing lots of consumables. If we encounter difficulties in scaling our manufacturing operations as a result of, among other things, quality control and quality assurance issues and availability of components and raw material supplies, we will likely experience reduced sales of our products, increased repair or re-engineering costs due to product returns and defects and increased expenses due to switching to alternate suppliers, any of which could reduce our revenues and gross margins.. We presently outsource certain aspects of the assembly of our systems to contract manufacturers. Because of a long lead-time to delivery, we are required to place orders for a variety of items well in advance of scheduled production runs. We have increased our flexibility to purchase strategic components within shorter lead times by entering into supply agreements with the suppliers of these components. Although we attempt to match our parts inventory and production capabilities to estimates of marketplace demand, to the extent system orders materially vary from our estimates, we may experience continued constraints in our systems production and delivery capacity, which could adversely impact revenue in a given fiscal period. Should our need for raw materials and components used in production continue to fluctuate, we could incur additional costs associated with either expediting or postponing delivery of those materials. In an effort to control costs we have implemented a lean production system. Managing the change from discrete to continuous flow production requires time and management commitment. Lean initiatives and limitations in our supply chain capabilities may result in parts shortages that delay shipments and cause fluctuations in revenue.. We currently purchase certain key components of our product line from a limited number of outside sources and, in the case of some components, a single source, and these components may only be available through a limited number of providers. We do not have agreements with all of our suppliers. While we currently believe that we will be able to satisfy our forecasted demand for our products, the failure to find alternative suppliers in the event of any type of supply failure at any of our current vendors at reasonably comparable prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Additionally, we have entered into supply agreements with most of our suppliers of strategic reagents and component subassemblies to help ensure component availability, and flexible purchasing terms with respect to the purchase of such components.  If our suppliers discontinue production of a key component, we will be required to revalidate an affected product and may be required to resubmit a previously cleared product.  Our reliance on our suppliers and contract manufacturers exposes us to risks including:. • the possibility that one or  more of our suppliers or our assemblers that do not have supply agreements with us could terminate their services at any time without penalty;. • natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis and floods that impact our suppliers;. • the potential obsolescence and/or inability of our suppliers to obtain required components;. • the potential delays and expenses of seeking alternate sources of supply or manufacturing services;. • the inability to qualify alternate sources without impacting performance claims of our products;. • reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery due to the difficulties in switching to alternate suppliers or assemblers; and. • increases in prices of raw materials and key components.. Consequently, in the event that supplies of components or work performed by any of our assemblers are delayed or interrupted, our ability to produce and supply our products could be impaired.. 24. The property rights we rely upon to protect the technologies underlying our products may not be adequate to maintain market exclusivity. Inadequate intellectual property protection could enable third parties to exploit our technologies or use very similar technologies and could reduce our ability to distinguish our products in the market.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain, protect and enforce patents on our technologies and products and to protect our trade secrets, including the intellectual property of entities we may acquire. Any patents we own may not afford full protection for our technologies and products. Other parties may challenge the validity of our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed or invalidated in administrative or judicial proceedings. In addition, our current and future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the United States or foreign countries. Competitors may develop products that are not covered by our patents. Furthermore, there is a substantial backlog of patent applications at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and certain patent offices in foreign jurisdictions, and the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years.. We currently own 585 issued patents worldwide, including 178 issued patents in the United States. Other countries in which we have issued patents directed to various aspects and applications of our products and technologies include France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Australia, Japan, Netherlands, Canada, Hong Kong and China, amongst others. In addition, our patent portfolio includes 156 pending patent applications in the United States and other foreign jurisdictions.  We also have patents covering key aspects of MultiCode technology, xTAG technology, and nanoparticle technology, utilized in our assay products as well as our ARIES® and VERIGENE Systems and NxTAG technology.. We seek to require employees, consultants, strategic partners and other third parties to execute confidentiality agreements. Our employees and third-party consultants also sign agreements requiring that they assign to us their interests in inventions and original expressions and any corresponding patents and copyrights arising from their work for us. In addition, we have implemented a patent process to file patent applications on our key technologies. However, we cannot guarantee that these agreements or this patent process will provide us with adequate protection against improper use of our intellectual property or disclosure of confidential information. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisers have prior employment or consulting relationships. Further, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary technologies, techniques and products or counterfeit versions of our products or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to distinguish our products in the market.. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may have to initiate legal proceedings against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. These legal proceedings could be expensive, take significant time and/or divert management's attention from other business concerns. These proceedings may cause us to lose the benefit of some of our intellectual property rights, the loss of which may inhibit or preclude our ability to distinguish our products in the market.  These proceedings also may provoke these third parties to assert claims against us. Moreover, a series of recent decisions from the Supreme Court of the United States have arguably weakened United States patent rights, including the Impression Products v. Lexmark case, which expands the scope of the patent exhaustion doctrine to sales of patented products outside of the United States and limits a patent holder's ability to enforce post-sale restrictions under patent law. The patent position of companies like ours generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has recently been the subject of much litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under patents like ours.. If our current products and our products under development do not become widely used in the life sciences and clinical diagnostics industries, we may not be able to maintain or increase profitability.. Life sciences and clinical diagnostic service provider companies have historically conducted biological tests using a variety of technologies, including bead-based analysis.  The commercial success of our products depends upon their widespread adoption as methods to perform assays. In order to be successful, we must convince potential partners and customers to utilize our systems instead of other competing products. Market acceptance depends on many factors, including our ability to:. • timely and successfully launch our products under development;. • manage trends relating to, or the introduction or existence of, competing products or technologies that may be more effective, cheaper or easier to use than our products and technologies;. • operate in a highly competitive marketplace, including in the presence of competing products sold by companies with longer operating histories, more recognizable names and more established distribution networks;. 25. • convince prospective strategic partners and customers that our products are an attractive alternative to others for research, clinical, biomedical and genetic testing and analysis;. • encourage these partners to develop and market products using our technologies;. • manufacture products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and at an acceptable cost;. • obtain and maintain sufficient pricing and royalties from partners on such Luminex products; and. • place and service sufficient quantities of our products at the level of service required in the life science and clinical diagnostics market segments.. Because of these and other factors, our products may not gain or sustain sufficient market acceptance to maintain or increase profitability.  Additionally, we may have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or if the demand for our products changes.. In the molecular diagnostics sector, we must recognize significant market uptake in order to gain operational efficiencies and reduce costs based on increased volume.. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our acquisition strategy. We may face difficulties integrating acquired entities with our existing businesses. Our business may be harmed by prior or future acquisitions.. Acquisitions of assets or entities designed to accelerate the implementation of our strategic plan are an important element of our long-term strategy. We may be unable to identify and complete appropriate future acquisitions in a timely manner, or at all, and no assurance can be provided that the market price of potential business acquisitions will be acceptable. In addition, many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we have and may be willing to pay more for these businesses or selected assets. In the future, should we identify suitable acquisition targets, we may be unable to complete acquisitions or obtain the financing, if necessary, for these acquisitions on terms favorable to us. Potential acquisitions pose a number of risks, including, among others, that:. • we may not be able to accurately estimate the financial effect of acquisitions on our business;. • future acquisitions may require us to incur debt or other obligations, issue additional securities, incur large and immediate write-offs, issue capital stock potentially dilutive to our stockholders or spend significant cash, or may negatively affect our operating results and financial condition;. • if we spend significant funds or incur additional debt or other obligations, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could decline, and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures;. • technological advancement or worse than expected performance of acquired businesses may result in the impairment of intangible assets;. • we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from acquisitions as a result of inherent risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired businesses or retaining their key personnel, partners, customers or other key relationships, entering market segments in which we have no or limited experience, and risks that acquired entities may not operate profitably or that acquisitions may not result in improved operating performance;. • we may fail to successfully obtain appropriate regulatory approval or clearance for products under development of our acquired businesses;. • we may be assuming liability for unresolved regulatory risks of our acquired businesses;. • we may fail to successfully manage relationships with customers, distributors and suppliers of our acquired businesses;. • our customers may not accept products of our acquired businesses;. • we may fail to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts of our acquired businesses;. • we may fail to combine product offerings and product lines of our acquired businesses quickly and effectively;. 26. • we may fail to effectively enhance acquired technology and products to develop new products relating to the acquired businesses;. • an acquisition may involve unexpected costs or liabilities, including as a result of pending and future shareholder lawsuits relating to acquisitions or exercise by shareholders of their statutory appraisal rights, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from our expectations;. • an acquisition may involve significant contingent payments that may adversely affect our future liquidity or capital resources;. • acquisitions and subsequent integration of these companies may disrupt our business and distract our management from other responsibilities; and. • the costs of unsuccessful acquisition efforts may adversely affect our financial performance.. Other risks of integration of acquired businesses include:. • disparate information technology, internal control, financial reporting and record-keeping systems;. • differences in accounting policies, including those requiring judgment or complex estimation processes;. • new partners or customers who may operate on terms and programs different than ours;. • additional employees not familiar with our operations;. • unanticipated additional transaction and integration-related costs;. • our current and prospective customers and suppliers may experience uncertainty associated with an acquisition, including with respect to current or future business relationships with us, and may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business;. • facilities or operations of acquired businesses in remote locations or potentially foreign jurisdictions and the inherent risks of operating in unfamiliar legal and regulatory environments; and. • new products, including the risk that any underlying intellectual property associated with such products may not have been adequately protected or that such products may infringe on the proprietary rights of others.. Our success depends partly on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others.. We have been (and from time to time we may be) notified that third parties consider their patents or other intellectual property relevant to our products. We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others, including claims with respect to intellectual property of entities we may acquire.  In addition, we may find it necessary, if threatened, to initiate a lawsuit seeking a declaration from a court that we do not infringe on the proprietary rights of others or that their rights are invalid or unenforceable. Intellectual property litigation is costly, and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could affect our profitability. Furthermore, litigation is time-consuming and could divert management's attention and resources away from our business. If we do not prevail in any litigation, we may have to pay damages and could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Moreover, some licenses may be nonexclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We require collaboration with other organizations in obtaining relevant biomarkers, access to oligonucleotides and enzymes that are patented or controlled by others. If we cannot continue to obtain these items or identify freedom to operate opportunities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected.. 27. Security breaches, including with respect to cybersecurity, and other disruptions could compromise our information, products, and services and expose us to liability and harm our reputation and business.. In the ordinary course of our business we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal information, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees in our data centers and on our networks. The secure maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and domestically available monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing this sensitive data.  As a participant in the molecular diagnostic market, we may face cyber-attacks that attempt to penetrate our network security, including our data centers, sabotage or otherwise disable our research, products and services, including instruments at our customers' sites, which may include personally identifiable information, or cause interruptions of our internal systems.. If successful, hackers may misappropriate personal or confidential business information. In addition, an associate, contractor or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. While we continue to implement additional protective measures to reduce the risk of and detect cyber incidents, cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, and the techniques used in such attacks change rapidly.  Despite our cybersecurity measures (including employee and third-party training, monitoring of networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems) which are continuously reviewed and upgraded, the Company's information technology networks and infrastructure may still be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attack by hackers or breaches, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, natural disasters or other catastrophic events.  Any such compromise of our, or our third party IT service providers' data security and any access, public disclosure or loss of personal or confidential business information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers' willingness to transact business with us and subject us to additional costs and liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business.. Our success depends on our ability to service and support our products directly or in collaboration with our strategic partners.. To the extent that we or our strategic partners fail to maintain a high quality level of service and support for xMAP products, there is a risk that the perceived quality of our xMAP products will be diminished in the marketplace. Likewise, we may fail to provide the level, quantity or quality of service expected by the marketplace. This could result in slower adoption rates and lower than anticipated utilization of xMAP products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If third-party payors continue to increasingly restrict payments for healthcare expenses or fail to adequately pay for multi-analyte testing, we may experience reduced sales, which would hurt our business and our business prospects.. Third-party payors, government-sponsored healthcare programs (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid and Tricare), health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and other private or commercial insurers are continually seeking to reduce healthcare expenses. Payors are challenging the utilization of, and prices charged for, medical services, including clinical diagnostic tests.  The federal government has implemented cost-cutting strategies for government-sponsored healthcare programs, including coverage limitations and reimbursement rate reductions required by the Affordable Care Act.  In 2016, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) issued a final rule that significantly revised the reimbursement methodology under the Clinical Diagnostic Laboratory Test Payment System required by the Protecting Access to Medicare Act. Beginning January 1, 2018, payment rates for most tests included in the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule are based on commercial insurance rates, which certain laboratories are required to report. The market-based reimbursement rates published for 2018 are generally lower than the 2017 Medicare rates, and further reductions will be phased in through 2022. We expect reimbursement rates to trend down over time. Coverage and reimbursement from commercial payors may also reflect these reductions.. Further cost containment initiatives by governmental or educational entities or programs may reduce funding for genetic research and development activities and slow the growth of the genetic testing market.  Lack of adequate coverage or reimbursement for our products could affect consumer demand, reducing volumes or adding additional cost pressures, resulting in lowered prices for our products. Reduced sales or margins by us, or our direct customers, and strategic partners, would adversely affect our business, profitability and business prospects. In addition, failure to secure appropriate reimbursement in foreign jurisdictions could severely limit our ability to expand sales within these markets.. 28. We expect our operating results to continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter.. The sale of our instrumentation and assay products typically involves a significant technical evaluation and commitment of capital by us, our partners and end users. Accordingly, the sales cycle associated with our products is typically lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks, much of which is beyond our control, including partners' budgetary constraints, inventory management practices, regulatory approval and internal acceptance reviews. As a result of this lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle, our operating results have historically fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter. We expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future.. The vast majority of our system sales are made to our strategic partners. Our partners typically purchase instruments in three phases during their commercialization cycle: first, instruments necessary to support internal assay development; second, instruments for sales force demonstrations; and finally, instruments for resale to their customers. As a result, most of our system placements are highly dependent on the continued commercial success of our strategic partners and can fluctuate from quarter to quarter as our strategic partners move from phase to phase. We expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future.. Our assay products are sometimes sold to large customers. The ordering and consumption patterns of these customers can fluctuate, affecting the timing of shipments and revenue recognition. In addition, certain products assist in the diagnosis of illnesses that are seasonal, and customer orders can fluctuate for this reason.  The loss of any of these customers (including LabCorp's decision to move to an alternative vendor for women's health products in 2018) could have a material adverse effect or our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because of the effect of bulk purchases, defined as the purchase of $100,000 or more of consumables in a quarter, and the introduction of seasonal components to our assay menus, we experience fluctuations in the percentage of our quarterly revenues derived from our highest margin items: consumables, royalties and assays. Our gross margin percentage is highly dependent upon the mix of revenue components each quarter. These fluctuations contribute to the variability and lack of predictability of both gross margin percentage and total gross profit from quarter to quarter. We expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future.. Due to the early stage of the market for molecular tests, projected growth scenarios for our assays are highly volatile and are based on a number of underlying assumptions that may or may not prove to be valid, including our ability to be successful with our direct assay sales strategy.. In most of our strategic partnerships we have granted non-exclusive rights with respect to commercialization of our products and technologies.. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will come from sales of our systems and the development and sale of kits utilizing our xMAP consumables by our strategic partners and from use of our xMAP products by our strategic partners in performing services offered to third parties. We believe that our strategic partners will have economic incentives to develop and market these products, but we cannot accurately predict future sales and royalty revenues because some of our existing strategic partner agreements do not include minimum purchase requirements or minimum royalty commitments.  Some of our existing strategic partner agreements contain minimum purchase requirements for certain years, but unless renegotiated, these minimum purchase requirements could and do expire.  In addition, we have no control with respect to our strategic partners' sales personnel and how they prioritize products based on xMAP technology, nor can we control the timing of the development or release of products by our strategic partners. The amount of these revenues depends on a variety of factors that are outside our control, including the amount and timing of resources that current and future strategic partners devote to develop and market products incorporating our technology. Furthermore, the development and marketing of certain kits will require our strategic partners to obtain governmental approvals, which could delay or prevent their commercialization efforts. If our current or future strategic partners do not successfully develop and market products based on our technology and obtain necessary government approvals, our revenues from product sales and royalties could be significantly reduced.. 29. If the governmental laws and regulations change in ways that we do not anticipate or if we fail to comply with existing laws and regulations that affect our business, we could be subject to enforcement actions, injunctions and civil and criminal penalties or otherwise be subject to increased costs that could delay or prevent marketing of our products.. The production, testing, labeling, marketing and distribution of our products for some purposes, including products based on our technology are subject to governmental regulation by the FDA and by similar agencies in other countries. Some of our products, including those based on our technologies for in vitro diagnostic purposes, are subject to clearance by the FDA prior to marketing for commercial use. To date, seven strategic partners have obtained such clearances. Others are anticipated. The process of obtaining necessary FDA clearances can be time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. Further, clearance may place substantial restrictions on the indications for which products may be marketed or to whom they may be marketed. In addition, because some of our products employ laser technology, we are also required to comply with FDA requirements relating to radiation performance safety standards.. Periodically the FDA issues guidance documents that represent the FDA's current thinking on a topic. These issues are initially issued in draft form prior to final rule, generally with enforcement discretion for some grace period of time. Changes made through this process may impact the release status of products offered and our ability to market those products affected by the change.  For example, on September 14, 2007, the FDA released the final document \"Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff Commercially Distributed Analyte Specific Reagents (ASRs): Frequently Asked Questions.\" This guidance may limit or delay distribution of assays on our platform, including assays that we developed internally and distributed, to the extent additional regulatory clearance is required prior to distribution.. Cleared medical device products are subject to continuing FDA requirements relating to, among other issues, manufacturing quality control and quality assurance, maintenance of records and documentation, registration and listing, import/export, adverse event and other reporting, distribution, labeling and promotion and advertising of medical devices. Our inability or the inability of our strategic partners to obtain required regulatory approval or clearance on a timely or acceptable basis could harm our business. In addition, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could subject us or our strategic partners to regulatory enforcement action, including warning letters, product seizures, recalls, withdrawal of clearances, restrictions on or injunctions against marketing our products or products based on our technology and civil and criminal penalties.. Medical device laws and regulations are in effect within the United States and also in many countries outside the United States. These range from comprehensive device clearance requirements for some or all of our medical device products to requests for product data or certifications regarding the hazardous material content of our products. As a device manufacturer, we are required to report annually to the CMS any payments or transfers of value we have made to physicians and teaching hospitals and any physician ownership or investment interest in the company.  As part of the European Council Directive 2002/96 of February 13, 2003, we are expected to comply with certain requirements regarding the collection, recycling and labeling of our products containing electronic devices in each of the EU member states where our regulated products are distributed. While we are taking steps to comply with the requirements of WEEE, we cannot be certain that we will comply with the national stage implementation of WEEE in all member states. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. These regulations include, for example, the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances, the RoHS Directive and the WEEE Directive enacted in the European Union, which regulate the use of certain hazardous substances in, and require the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from, certain  products we manufacture. This and similar legislation that has been or is in the process of being enacted in various countries may require us to re-design our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards. These redesigns may impact the performance of our products, add greater testing lead-times for product introductions or have other similar effects. We believe we comply with all such legislation where our products are sold and we will continue to monitor these laws and the regulations being adopted under them to determine our responsibilities. In addition, the State of California adopted the Electronic Waste Recycling Act, effective January 1, 2007, which requires the California Department of Toxic Substances Control to adopt regulations to prohibit the sale of electronic devices in California if they are also prohibited from sale in the EU under the RoHS Directive because they contain certain heavy metals. The number and scope of these requirements are increasing and we will likely become subject to similar laws in other jurisdictions. Failure to comply with applicable federal, state and foreign medical device laws and regulations may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to a variety of other laws and regulations relating to, among other things, environmental protection and workplace health and safety.. 30. Our strategic partners and customers expect our organization to operate on an established quality management system compliant with FDA Quality System Regulations and industry standards, the In Vitro Diagnostic Directive 98/79/EC of 27 October 1998 (Directive) as implemented nationally in the EU member states and industry standards, such as ISO 9000. We became ISO 9001:2000 certified in March 2002 and self-declared our Luminex 100/200, FLEXMAP 3D and MAGPIX instruments to the Directive.  Our devices are in conformity with Article 1, Article 9, Annex I (Essential Requirements), Annex III and the additional provisions of the Directive as of December 7, 2003. Subsequent audits are carried out annually to ensure we maintain our system in substantial compliance with ISO and other applicable regulations and industry standards. We became ISO 13485:2003 and Canadian Medical Devices Conformity Assessment System (CMDCAS) certified in July 2005. Failure to maintain compliance with FDA, CMDCAS and EU regulations and other medical device laws, or to obtain applicable registrations where required, could reduce our competitive advantage in the markets in which we compete and also decrease satisfaction and confidence levels with our partners.. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain our management and staff.. We depend on the principal members of our management and scientific staff, including our chief executive officer, Nachum Shamir, and our operations, marketing, research and development, technical support, technical service and sales staff. The loss of services of key members of management could delay or reduce our product development, marketing and sales and technical support efforts. In addition, recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and other personnel to perform research and development, technical support, technical service and marketing and sales work will be critical to our success. There is a shortage in our industry of qualified management and scientific personnel, and competition for these individuals is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain existing and attract additional personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives.. Our reliance on strategic partnerships makes forecasting difficult.. As a result of our reliance on our strategic relationships, it can be difficult to accurately forecast future operating results.     Estimating the timing and amount of sales of our products is particularly difficult for the following reasons (among others):. • we do not control the timing or extent of product development, marketing or sale of our products by our strategic partners;. • we do not control the incentives provided by our strategic partners and distributors to their sales personnel;. • we utilize a limited number of geographically focused distributors for a portion of our sales, including sales of several of our key assay products, and the loss of or nonperformance by these distributors could harm our revenues in the territories serviced by these distributors;. • a significant number of our strategic partners intend to produce clinical diagnostic applications that may need to be approved by the FDA or other regulatory bodies in jurisdictions outside of the United States;. • certain strategic partners may have unique requirements for their applications and systems. Assisting the various strategic partners may strain our research and development and manufacturing resources. To the extent that we are not able to timely assist our strategic partners, the commercialization of their products will likely be delayed;. • certain strategic partners may fail to deliver products that satisfy market requirements, or such products may fail to perform properly;. • we have limited access to partner and distributor confidential corporate information. A sudden unexpected change in ownership or strategy or other material event due to information of which we are not currently aware could adversely impact partner purchases of our products; and. • partners tend to order in bulk prior to the production of new lots of their products and prior to major product development initiatives.  The frequency of these bulk purchases is difficult to predict and may cause large fluctuations in microsphere sales quarter to quarter.. 31. If the quality of our products does not meet our customers' expectations, our reputation could suffer and ultimately our sales and operating earnings could be negatively impacted.. In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. Because our instruments and consumables are highly complex, the occurrence of defects may increase as we continue to introduce new products and services and as we rapidly scale up manufacturing to meet increased demand for our products and services. Although we have established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from product quality issues, there can be no assurance that we will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. In addition, identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents and third-party components, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise and increases the risk that similar problems could recur. Finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and we may incur significant costs or lost revenue in connection with, for example, shipment holds, product recalls and warranty or other service obligations. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand image, and our reputation as a producer of high quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If we become subject to product liability claims, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of biotechnological, human diagnostic and therapeutic products. Although we believe that we are reasonably insured against these risks and we generally have limited indemnity protections in our supplier agreements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. A product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage or a claim that is outside of or exceeds our indemnity protections in our supplier agreements or a recall of one of our products would have to be paid out of our cash reserves.. If our direct selling efforts for our products are less successful than anticipated, our business expansion plans could suffer and our ability to generate revenues could be diminished.. If our direct sales force is not successful, or additions to our sales team fail to gain traction among our customers, we may not be able to increase market awareness and sales of our products, or to maintain historical sales levels. If we fail to establish our systems in the marketplace, it could have a negative effect on our ability to sell subsequent systems and hinder the planned expansion of our business.. The commercial launch of the ARIES® System was the first Luminex system launch that was not channeled through a partner.  The successful execution of our product launch and adoption by our direct customers is critical to establishing an installed base of satisfied customers.  To the extent that these customers do not adopt the current and forthcoming menu of ARIES® assays that have been a significant focus of Luminex's research and development efforts over the last four years, there is a significant risk that our investment in these assays may not pay off.  Additionally, we have made a significant investment in the Luminex customer service, support and direct sales force to support the ARIES® Systems launches.  The ability of Luminex to service, support and sell the ARIES® and VERIGENE Systems directly, and not through a partner, may also fail to meet market expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The capital spending policies of our customers have a significant effect on the demand for our products.. Our customers include clinical diagnostic, pharmaceutical, biotechnological, chemical and industrial companies, and the capital spending policies of these companies can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. These policies are based on a wide variety of factors, including general or local economic conditions, governmental regulation or price controls, resources available for purchasing research equipment, spending priorities among various types of analytical equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures during recessionary periods. Any decrease in capital spending by life sciences companies could cause our revenues to decline. As a result, we are subject to significant volatility in revenue. Therefore, our operating results can be materially affected (negatively and positively) by the spending policies and priorities of our customers.. 32. If we become subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous materials, we could incur significant cost and time to comply.. Our research and development processes involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including biological hazardous materials. We are subject to foreign, federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of materials and waste products. We may incur significant costs complying with both existing and future environmental laws and regulations. In particular, we are subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act in the United States. OSHA or the EPA may adopt regulations that may affect our research and development programs. We are unable to predict whether any agency will adopt any regulations that would have a material adverse effect on our operations.. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be eliminated completely. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our workers' compensation insurance. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, if at all.. We may incur impairment charges on our goodwill and intangible assets which would reduce our earnings.. We are subject to Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 350 \"Goodwill and Other\" (ASC 350) which requires that goodwill and other intangible assets that have an indefinite life be tested at least annually for impairment. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives must also be tested for impairment between the annual tests if a triggering event occurs that would likely reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying amount.  As of December 31, 2017, goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives represented approximately 32% of our total assets.  In the future, if we determine that there has been impairment, our financial results for the relevant period would be reduced by the amount of the impairment, net of tax effects, if any.. Uncertain economic conditions and outlook may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.. Global economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations.  The credit markets and the financial services industry continue to experience volatility, both domestically and internationally.  These conditions not only limit our access to capital but also make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses and consumers to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Some of our customers rely on government research grants to fund technology purchases.  If negative trends in the economy affect the government's allocation of funds to research, there may be less grant funding available for certain of our customers to purchase technologies like those Luminex sells.  Certain of our partners and their and our customers may face challenges gaining timely access to sufficient credit or may otherwise be faced with budget constraints, which could result in decreased purchases of, or development of products based on, our products or in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us.  If our partners and our customers do not make timely payments to us, we may be required to assume greater credit risk relating to those customers, increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively impacted.   Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments, and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we may not continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past given the current condition of the worldwide economy.  Additionally, these economic conditions and market turbulence may also impact our suppliers causing them to be unable to supply in a timely manner sufficient quantities of customized components, thereby impairing our ability to manufacture on schedule and at commercially reasonable costs.. If a catastrophe strikes our manufacturing or warehousing facilities, we may be unable to manufacture or distribute our products for a substantial amount of time and we may experience inventory shortfalls, which would cause us to experience lost revenues.. Our manufacturing facilities are located in Austin, Madison, Northbrook and Toronto.  Although we have business interruption insurance, our facilities and some pieces of manufacturing equipment are difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead time. Various types of disasters, including tornadoes, fires, floods and acts of terrorism, may affect our manufacturing facilities. In the event our existing manufacturing facilities or equipment are affected by man-made or natural disasters, we may be unable to manufacture products for sale or meet customer demands or sales projections. If our manufacturing operations were curtailed or ceased, it would seriously harm our business.. 33. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends.. In February 2017, the Board of Directors initiated a cash dividend program under which the Company will pay a regular quarterly cash dividend. The declaration, amount and timing of such dividends are subject to capital availability and determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and our agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. Our continuing ability to pay dividends will depend upon, among other factors, our cash balances and potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions, including acquisitions, debt service requirements, results of operations, financial condition and other factors beyond our control that our Board of Directors may deem relevant.  A reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments, or our dividend program could have a negative effect on our stock price.. Our operations in foreign countries expose us to certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We expect that revenue from U.S. sales will continue to represent the majority of our total revenue, but our future profitability will depend in part on our ability to grow and ultimately maintain our product sales in foreign markets, particularly in Asia and Europe.  In fiscal 2017, approximately 16% of our revenue was derived from sales to non-U.S. customers, with approximately 7% of revenue from sales to customers in Europe.  As such, a significant slowdown in these foreign economies or lower investments in new infrastructure could have a negative impact on our sales. We also purchase a portion of the materials included in our products from overseas sources.  As a result of acquisitions and organic growth, we have operations and manufacturing facilities in foreign countries that expose us to certain risks. For example, fluctuations in exchange rates may affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations, as well as the value of our assets and liabilities as reflected in our financial statements. We are also subject to other types of risks, including the following:. • changes in or interpretations of foreign law that may adversely affect our ability to sell our products, perform services or repatriate profits to the United States;. • tariffs, customs and other barriers to importing/exporting materials and products in a cost effective and timely manner;. • hyperinflation or economic or political instability in foreign countries;. • imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries;. • conducting business in places where business practices and customs are unfamiliar and unknown;. • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;. • the burden of complying with complex and changing foreign regulatory requirements;. • difficulties in accounts receivable collections;. • the imposition of restrictive trade policies, including export restrictions;. • worldwide political conditions;. • the imposition of inconsistent laws or regulations;. • reduced protection of intellectual property rights and trade secrets in some foreign countries;. • the imposition or increase of investment requirements and other restrictions by foreign governments;. • the interpretation of contractual provisions governed by foreign laws in the event of a contract dispute;. • uncertainties relating to foreign laws, including labor laws, and legal proceedings;. • the burden of complying with foreign and international laws and treaties;. • significant currency fluctuations;. 34. • the burden of complying with and changes in international taxation policies;. • the burden of complying with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and. • the burden of complying with U.S. export control regulations and policies that restrict our ability to communicate with non-U.S. employees and to supply foreign affiliates, partners and customers.. Our international sales and purchases are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, tariffs, trade barriers, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, the International Traffic in Arms Regulation promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be liable for administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, and in the extreme case, we could be suspended or debarred from government contracts or have our export privileges suspended, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. International sales and purchases are also subject to a variety of other risks, including risks arising from currency fluctuations, collection issues and taxes. Our international sales are subject to variability as our selling prices become less competitive in countries with currencies that are declining in value against the U.S. dollar and more competitive in countries with currencies that are increasing in value against the U.S. dollar. In addition, our international purchases can become more expensive if the U.S. dollar weakens against the foreign currencies in which we are billed.. We have not entered into any foreign currency derivative financial instruments; however, we may choose to do so in the future in an effort to manage or hedge our foreign exchange rate risk.. Our success depends on building and sustaining our technology infrastructure.. We are increasingly dependent on information technology to enable us to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, implement and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, the inability to properly support and service our customers, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers, business disruptions or loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach or cyber-attack, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business.. We rely on the innovation and resources of larger industry participants and public programs in our partnership business to advance genomic research and educate physicians/clinicians on genetic diagnostics.. The linkages between genetic anomalies that our products detect and the underlying disease states are not always fully medically correlated. Additionally, the availability of correlated genetic markers is dependent on significant investment in genomic research, often funded through public programs, for which there are no assurances of ongoing support. Should any government limit patent rights to specific genetic materials, private investment in this area could also be significantly curtailed. In addition, the adoption of genetic diagnostics is dependent to a great extent on the education and training of physicians and clinicians. We do not have the resources to undertake such training, and are relying on larger industry participants and professional medical colleges to establish, communicate and educate physicians and clinicians on best practices related to genetic diagnostics.. We are subject to evolving legislative, regulatory, judicial and ethical standards on use of technology and biotechnology.. The adoption of genetic testing is occurring within the broader context of a myriad of decisions related to genetic patenting and genotyping. Issues associated with health insurance, data access, intellectual property protection, national and international legislative and regulatory initiatives and other variables may have a significant impact on the widespread adoption of genetic testing or on specific segments or tests within the genetic testing market, which could in turn impact our business.. 35. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of amounts that have been accrued.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions.  Our effective tax rate may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, the establishment or release of valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, and changes in tax laws.  In addition, we have recorded gross unrecognized tax benefits in our financial statements that, if recognized, would impact our effective tax rate.  We are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions, including the United States, and tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes.  There can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  The recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits will not be realized. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance based on historical income, projected future income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences, and the implementation of tax-planning strategies.. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or changes in interpretations of existing laws, could materially impact our effective tax rate.  Significant reform to U.S. tax laws was enacted in the fourth quarter of 2017 which includes, among other things, changes to tax rates, limitations on the ability to defer U.S. taxation on earnings outside of the United States, and new taxes on profits earned in foreign jurisdictions.  These changes to the taxation of our activities could adversely affect the tax treatment of our foreign earnings and impact our worldwide effective tax rate.. We hold cash and cash equivalents at various foreign subsidiaries that may not be readily available to meet domestic. cash requirements.. Currently a substantial majority of our cash and cash equivalents is held by our various foreign subsidiaries, in particular our subsidiary in Canada; however, any cash balances held outside the United States may not be readily available, or may not be available without an additional tax burden, to meet our domestic cash requirements.  We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, purchases of property and equipment, and for potential future acquisitions. If we are unable to meet our domestic cash requirements using domestic cash flows from operations, domestic cash and cash equivalents, by settling loans receivable with our foreign subsidiaries, or by domestic borrowing, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings. Recent changes to U.S. tax laws may allow for reductions to the potential tax burden on repatriation of foreign cash; however, such actions would require us to record additional income tax expense and remit additional taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The \"conflict minerals\" rule of the SEC has caused us to incur additional expenses, could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products, and could make us less competitive in our target markets.. On August 22, 2012, the SEC adopted a rule requiring disclosure of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The rule requires companies to obtain sourcing data from suppliers, engage in supply chain due diligence, and file annually with the SEC a specialized disclosure report. The rule could limit our ability to source at competitive prices and to secure sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, specifically tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten, as the number of suppliers that provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. We may incur material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to the determination of the origin, source and chain of custody of the minerals used in our products, the adoption of conflict minerals-related governance policies, processes and controls, and possible changes to products or sources of supply as a result of such activities. Within our supply chain, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the data collection and due diligence procedures that we have implemented, which may harm our reputation. Furthermore, we may encounter challenges in satisfying those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free, and if we cannot satisfy these customers, they may choose a competitor's products. We continue to investigate the presence of conflict materials within our supply chain.. 36. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make a third party acquisition of us difficult.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We are also subject to certain provisions of Delaware law that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price. This volatility is in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results from historical results or estimates of results prepared by securities analysts;. • developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation;. • new, or changes in, recommendations, guidelines or studies that could affect the use of our products;. • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors;. • announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • developments in relationships with our partners, customers and suppliers;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • conditions or trends in the life science, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including the regulatory environment;. • published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of products and markets in which we participate;. • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;. • general worldwide economic conditions and interest rates;. • the success or lack of success of integrating our acquisitions;. • instability in the United States and other financial markets and the ongoing and possible escalation of unrest in the Middle East, other armed hostilities or further acts or threats of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere;. • sales of our common stock; and. • the potential adverse impact of the secondary trading of our stock on foreign exchanges, without our permission, which exchanges are subject to less regulatory oversight than the Nasdaq Global Select Market, and the activity of the market makers of our stock on such exchanges, including the risk that such market makers may engage in naked short sales and/or other deceptive trading practices which may artificially depress or otherwise affect the price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Select Market and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been particular volatility in the market prices of securities of life sciences companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management's attention and resources.. 37"
