[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in the Company entails the following risks and uncertainties. These risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating any investment in the Company. Any of these risks and uncertainties could cause the actual results. to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements set forth herein, and could otherwise have a significant adverse impact on the Company's business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, please read \"Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, where we describe additional uncertainties associated with our business and the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Our Business. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and affected by changes in general economic, real estate and other business conditions that could reduce the demand for new homes and, as a result, negatively impact the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Certain economic, real estate and other business conditions that have significant effects on the homebuilding industry include:. • employment levels and job and personal income growth;. • availability and pricing of financing for homebuyers;. • short and long-term interest rates;. • overall consumer confidence and the confidence of potential homebuyers in particular;. • demographic trends;. • changes in energy prices;. • housing demand from population growth, household formation and other demographic changes, among other factors;. • U.S. and global financial system, market volatility and credit market stability;. • private party and governmental residential consumer mortgage loan programs, and federal and state regulation of lending and appraisal practices;. • federal and state personal income tax rates and provisions, and government actions, policies, programs and regulations directed at or affecting the housing market (including the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Cuts and Job Act\"), the Dodd-Frank Act, tax benefits associated with purchasing and owning a home, and the standards, fees and size limits applicable to the purchase or insuring of mortgage loans by government-sponsored enterprises and government agencies), the homebuilding industry, or construction activities;. • the supply of and prices for available new or existing homes, including lender-owned homes acquired through foreclosures and short sales and homes held for sale by investors and speculators, and other housing alternatives, such as apartments and other residential rental property;. • homebuyer interest in our current or new product designs and community locations, and general consumer interest in purchasing a home compared to choosing other housing alternatives; and. • real estate taxes.. These above conditions, among others, are complex and interrelated. Adverse changes in such conditions may have a significant negative impact on our business, as they did during the recent downturn. The negative impact may be national in scope but may also negatively and acutely affect some of the regions or markets in which we operate more than others. In addition, adverse economic conditions in markets outside the U.S., such as Asia, India and Canada, as well as any restrictive economic policies in such overseas regions, may have an adverse impact on our financial results to the extent such factors decrease the amount of potential homebuyers from such regions in our markets.  For example, the capital markets in China experienced a high level of volatility in recent years and such volatility and economic uncertainty, as well as capital constraints and restrictions imposed by the government, may adversely affect our sales to the extent any potential homebuyers become more hesitant, or unable, to purchase a home.  When such adverse conditions affect any of our markets, those conditions could. 16. Table of Contents. have a proportionately greater impact on us than on some other homebuilding companies. We cannot predict their occurrence or severity, nor can we provide assurance that our strategic responses to their impacts would be successful.. Further, the prior recession and downturn in the homebuilding industry had a significant adverse effect on us. While we believe that the housing market began to recover in fiscal year 2012 from the significant slowdown and appears to continue to be recovering in most of the regions in which we operate, we cannot predict the pace or scope of the recovery, and we have experienced a more tempered home price appreciation and moderate sales pace during recent years, with a good deal of variation between our markets, following the steep rebound of home prices in 2012 and 2013. We cannot predict the duration or ultimate magnitude of any economic downturn or the continuation of the current recovery, nor can we provide assurance that should the recovery not continue, our response would be successful.  The recent improvement in housing market conditions following a prolonged and severe housing downturn may not continue, and any slowing or reversal of the present housing recovery may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Shortages in the availability of subcontract labor may delay construction schedules and increase our costs.. The Company's business and results of operations are dependent on the availability and skill of subcontractors, as substantially all construction work is done by subcontractors with the Company acting as the general contractor. Accordingly, the timing and quality of construction depend on the availability and skill of the Company's unaffiliated, third party subcontractors. As the homebuilding market returns to full capacity, we have previously experienced and may again experience skilled labor shortages.  Throughout the homebuilding cycle, we have experienced shortages of skilled labor in a number of our markets which has led to increased labor costs and increased the cycle times of completion of home construction and our ability to convert home sales into closings.  The cost of labor may also be adversely affected by shortages of qualified trades people, changes in laws and regulations relating to union activity and changes in immigration laws and trends in labor migration. We cannot be assured that there will be a sufficient supply of, or satisfactory performance by, these unaffiliated third-party consultants and subcontractors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The residential construction industry also experiences labor shortages and disruptions from time to time, including: work stoppages, labor disputes, shortages in qualified trades people, lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services, our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured, and delays in availability of building materials. Additionally, the Company could experience labor shortages as a result of subcontractors going out of business or leaving the residential construction market due to low levels of housing production and volumes. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of the Company's communities, increase the cost of developing one or more of the Company's communities and increase the construction cost of the Company's homes. To the extent that market conditions prevent the recovery of increased costs, including, among other things, subcontracted labor, finished lots, building materials, and other resources, through higher sales prices, the Company's gross margins from home sales and results of operations could be adversely affected.. In addition, some of the subcontractors engaged by us are represented by labor unions or are subject to collective bargaining arrangements that require the payment of prevailing wages that are typically higher than normally expected on a residential construction site.  A strike or other work stoppage involving any of our subcontractors could also make it difficult for us to retain subcontractors for their construction work. In addition, union activity could result in higher costs for us to retain our subcontractors. Access to qualified labor at reasonable rates may also be affected by other circumstances beyond our control, including: (i) shortages of qualified tradespeople, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers; (ii) high inflation; (iii) changes in laws relating to employment and union organizing activity; (iv) changes in trends in labor force migration; and (v) increases in contractor, subcontractor and professional services costs. The inability to contract with skilled contractors and subcontractors at reasonable rates on a timely basis could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Further, the enactment and implementation of federal, state or local statutes, ordinances, rules or regulations requiring the payment of prevailing wages on private residential developments would materially increase our costs of development and construction, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions.. Limitations on the availability and increases in the cost of mortgage financing can adversely affect demand for housing, which could materially and adversely affect us.. In general, housing demand is negatively impacted by the unavailability of mortgage financing, as a result of declining customer credit quality, tightening of mortgage loan underwriting standards and factors that increase the upfront or monthly cost of financing a home such as increases in interest rates, insurance premiums or limitations on mortgage interest deductibility.  Most of our buyers finance their home purchases through one of our mortgage joint ventures or third-party lenders providing mortgage financing.  If mortgage rates increase and, consequently, the ability of prospective buyers to finance. 17. Table of Contents. home purchases is adversely affected, home sales, gross margins and cash flow may also be adversely affected and the impact may be material.  The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee has raised the target range for the federal funds rate several times in the last few years. We are unable to predict if, or when, the Federal Open Market Committee will announce further increases or the impact of any such increases on home mortgage interest rates, and mortgage interest rates during 2018 and beyond may prove to be more volatile than in recent years. Rising interest rates, decreased availability of mortgage financing or of certain mortgage programs, higher down payment requirements or increased monthly mortgage costs may lead to reduced demand for our homes.  Increased interest rates can also hinder our ability to realize our backlog because our home purchase contracts provide homebuyers with a financing contingency.  Financing contingencies may allow homebuyers to cancel their home purchase contracts in the event that they cannot arrange for adequate financing.  Further, even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in the availability of mortgage products or increases in mortgage costs may make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing, which has in some cases led to lower demand for new homes.  As a result, rising interest rates can decrease our home sales.  Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.. In addition, as a result of the turbulence in the credit markets and mortgage finance industry, the federal government has taken on a significant role in supporting mortgage lending through its conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, both of which purchase home mortgages and mortgage-backed securities originated by mortgage lenders, and its insurance of mortgages originated by lenders through the FHA and the VA.  The availability and affordability of mortgage loans, including consumer interest rates for such loans, could be adversely affected by a curtailment or cessation of the federal government's mortgage-related programs or policies.  The FHA may continue to impose stricter loan qualification standards, raise minimum down payment requirements, impose higher mortgage insurance premiums and other costs, and/or limit the number of mortgages it insures.  Due to federal budget deficits, the U.S. Treasury may not be able to continue supporting the mortgage-related activities of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the FHA and the VA at present levels, or it may revise significantly the federal government's participation in and support of the residential mortgage market.  For example, the FHA significantly reduced the limits on loans eligible for insurance by the FHA in 2014, which has impacted the availability and cost of financing in our markets.  Because the availability of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA- and VA-backed mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing and selling many of our homes, any limitations, restrictions or changes in the availability of such government-backed financing could reduce our home sales, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.. Furthermore, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law.  This legislation provides for a number of new requirements relating to residential mortgages and mortgage lending practices, many of which are to be developed further by implementing rules.  These include, among others, minimum standards for mortgages and lender practices in making mortgages, limitations on certain fees and incentive arrangements, retention of credit risk and remedies for borrowers in foreclosure proceedings.  The effect of such provisions on lending institutions will depend on the rules that are ultimately adopted.  However, these requirements, as and when implemented, are expected to reduce the availability of loans to borrowers and/or increase the costs to borrowers to obtain such loans.  Any such reduction could result in a decline of our home sales, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.. In February 2017, President Donald Trump issued an executive order requiring the Secretary of the Treasury to report on the extent to which existing laws, treaties, regulations, guidance, reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and other government policies promote six core principals established by the President. This executive order could result in significant changes to laws, regulations and policies affecting the availability and cost of mortgage financing, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. We are unable to predict the impact, if any, of these potential changes on our home sales or financial performance.. Ultimately, if these trends continue and mortgage loans continue to be difficult or costly to obtain, the ability and willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes would be adversely affected, which would adversely affect the Company's results of operations through reduced home sales revenue, gross margin and cash flow.. Third-party lenders may not complete mortgage loan originations for the Company's homebuyers in a timely manner or at all, which can lead to cancellations and a lower backlog of orders, or to significant delays in the Company's delivering homes and recognizing revenues from those homes.. The Company's buyers may obtain mortgage financing for their home purchases from any lender or other provider of their choice, including one of the Company's mortgage joint ventures or an unaffiliated lender. If, due to credit or consumer lending market conditions, regulatory requirements, or other factors or business decisions, these lenders refuse or are unable to provide mortgage loans to the Company's buyers, the number of homes that the Company delivers, the Company's business and its consolidated financial statements may be materially and adversely affected.. 18. Table of Contents. Although the Company currently has a non-controlling ownership interest in two mortgage joint ventures, many of the Company's homebuyers will continue to seek mortgage loans from other lenders and be subject to those lenders' ability to perform. The Company can provide no assurance as to other lenders' ability or willingness to complete, in a timely fashion or at all, the mortgage loan originations they start for the Company's homebuyers. Such inability or unwillingness may result in mortgage loan funding issues that slow deliveries of the Company's homes and/or cause cancellations, which in each case may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and its consolidated financial statements. In addition, recent changes to mortgage loan disclosure requirements to consumers may potentially delay lenders', including the Company's mortgage joint ventures', completion of the mortgage loan funding process for borrowers.  Specifically, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) has adopted a rule governing the content and timing of mortgage loan disclosures to borrowers, commonly known as TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosures or TRID, which became effective on October 3, 2015.  Lender compliance with TRID could result in delays in loan closings and the delivery of homes that materially and adversely affect the Company's financial results and operations.. The Company may not have access to other capital resources to fund its liquidity needs, and difficulty in obtaining sufficient capital could result in increased costs and delays in completion of projects.. The homebuilding industry is capital-intensive and requires significant up-front expenditures to acquire land and begin development. There is no assurance that cash generated from the Company's operations, borrowings incurred under its credit agreements or project-level financing arrangements, or proceeds raised in capital markets transactions, will be sufficient to finance the Company's capital projects or otherwise fund its liquidity needs.  If the Company's future cash flows from operations and other capital resources are insufficient to finance its capital projects or otherwise fund its liquidity needs, the Company may be forced to:. • reduce or delay its business activities, land acquisitions and capital expenditures;. • sell assets;. • obtain additional debt or equity capital; or. • restructure or refinance all or a portion of its debt, including the notes, on or before maturity.. These alternative measures may not be successful and the Company may not be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all.  In addition, the terms of the Company's existing debt, including the notes and its credit agreements, will limit its ability to pursue these alternatives.  Further, the Company may seek additional capital in the form of project-level financing from time to time.  The availability of borrowed funds, especially for land acquisition and construction financing, may be greatly reduced nationally, and the lending community may require increased amounts of equity to be invested in a project by borrowers in connection with both new loans and the extension of existing loans. Land acquisition, development and construction activities may be adversely affected by any shortage or increased cost of financing or the unwillingness of third parties to engage in joint ventures. Any difficulty in obtaining sufficient capital for planned development expenditures could cause project delays and any such delay could result in cost increases and may adversely affect the Company's sales and future results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's business is geographically concentrated, and therefore, the Company's sales, results of operations, financial condition and business would be negatively impacted by a decline in the general economy or the homebuilding industry in such regions.. The Company presently conducts all of its business in the following geographic areas within the Western U.S. region: Southern California, Northern California, Arizona, Nevada, Colorado, Washington and Oregon. The Company's geographic concentration in the Western U.S. could adversely impact the Company if the homebuilding business in its current markets should decline, since there may not be a balancing opportunity in a stronger market in other geographic regions.. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn in one or more of these areas, or in any sector of employment on which the residents in such areas are substantially dependent, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, and a disproportionately greater impact on us than other homebuilders with more diversified operations. For example, much of the employment base in the Pacific Northwest and Northern California markets are dependent upon the technology sector, and Nevada the hospitality and gaming sector, and the local economy in certain Colorado markets is to a large extent driven by the oil and gas industry.  Further, during the downturn from 2008 to 2010, land values, the demand for new homes and home prices declined substantially in California, negatively impacting the Company's profitability and financial position. In addition, in the past the state of California has experienced severe budget shortfalls and taken measures such as raising taxes and increasing fees to offset the deficit. Accordingly, the Company's sales, results of. 19. Table of Contents. operations, financial condition and business would be negatively impacted by a decline in the economy, the job sector or the homebuilding industry in the Western U.S. regions in which our operations are concentrated.. Negative environmental impacts from, and legal and regulatory requirements in response to, severe and prolonged drought conditions in California, Arizona and Nevada could adversely affect our business and results of operations in those regions and our consolidated financial statements.. Certain areas in which we operate, particularly California and parts of Arizona and Nevada, have experienced extreme or exceptional drought conditions from time to time. In response to these conditions and concerns that they may continue for an extended period of time or worsen, government officials have taken, or have proposed taking, a number of steps to preserve potable water supplies.  For instance, in 2014, the Governor of California proclaimed a Drought State of Emergency warning that drought conditions may place drinking water supplies at risk in many California communities. In April 2015, the Governor issued an executive order that, among other things, directs the State Water Resources Control Board to implement mandatory water reductions in cities and towns across California to reduce water usage by 25 percent and to prohibit irrigation with potable water outside newly constructed homes that is not delivered by drip or micro-spray systems. The Governor's order also calls on local water agencies to adjust their rate structures to implement conservation pricing, directs the Department of Water Resources to update the Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance, and directs the California Energy Commission to adopt emergency regulations establishing standards to improve the efficiency of water appliances such as toilets and faucets. In May 2015, the Water Board adopted emergency regulations mandating reductions in potable water use by urban water suppliers to achieve the 25% statewide reduction mandated by the Governor's Executive Order. Based on continued drought conditions, in February 2016, the Water Board extended the emergency regulations through November 2016 but revised the regulations to provide for decreases in certain urban water suppliers' reduction targets under specified conditions. In May 2016, the Water Board again extended the emergency regulations restricting urban water use through February 28, 2017 but adopted a \"stress test\" approach that mandates urban water suppliers to take actions to ensure at least a three year supply of water to their customers under drought conditions. In 2017, the California Governor lifted the drought proclamation for most of California and the Water Board rescinded its emergency restrictions. However, the Water Board maintained the urban water use reporting requirements and the prohibitions on wasteful water practices, and announced a plan to make water conservation a long-term way of life in California. These and other measures that are instituted to respond to drought conditions could cause us to incur additional costs, and there can be no assurance that the drought proclamation with not be reinstated. In addition, new home deliveries in some areas may be delayed or prevented due to the unavailability of water, even when we have obtained water rights for those projects.. To address the state's mandate and their own available potable water supplies, local water agencies/suppliers could potentially restrict, delay the issuance of, or proscribe new water connection permits for homes or businesses, increase the costs for securing such permits, either directly or by requiring participation in impact mitigation programs, adopt higher efficiency requirements for water-using appliances or fixtures, limit or ban the use of water for construction activities, impose requirements as to the types of allowed plant material or irrigation for outdoor landscaping that are more strict than state standards and less desired by consumers, and/or impose fines and penalties for noncompliance with any such measures, all of which may adversely impact our new home deliveries. These local water agencies/suppliers could also increase rates and charges to residential users for the water they use, potentially increasing the cost of homeownership. We can offer no assurance whether, where and the extent to which these or additional conservation measures might be imposed by local water agencies or suppliers in California or by other federal, state or local lawmakers or regulators in Arizona, California and Nevada. However, if potable water supplies become further constrained due to persistent drought conditions, tighter conservation requirements may be imposed that could limit, impair or delay our ability to acquire and develop land, or build and deliver homes, increase our production costs, or cause the fair value of affected land or land interests in our inventory to decline, which could result in inventory impairment or land option contract abandonment charges, or both, or negatively affect the economies of, or diminish consumer interest in living in, water-constrained areas. These impacts, individually or collectively, could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial statements, and the effect could be material.  Although California experienced significant snow and rainfall in the water year that ended September 2017, precipitation cannot be counted on to continue, and snowpack levels are subject to rapid reductions as seen in 2016 and in earlier periods. In addition, some parts of California are still experiencing water supply shortfalls and five years of drought have resulted in a significant water supply deficit, especially when it comes to California's groundwater basins.. There have been substantial changes to the Internal Revenue Code, some of which could have an adverse effect on our business.. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Cuts and Job Act\"), which contains substantial changes to the Internal Revenue Code, effective January 1, 2018, some of which could have an adverse effect on our business.  Prior to the Tax Cuts and Job Act's enactment, significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage loan interest costs and real estate taxes, generally were deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual's or household's federal, and in some cases state, taxable income, subject to various limitations. The Tax Cuts and Job Act establishes new limits on the. 20. Table of Contents. federal tax deductions individual taxpayers may take on mortgage loan interest payments and on state and local taxes, including real estate taxes. The Tax Cuts and Job Act also raises the standard deduction. These changes could reduce the perceived affordability of homeownership, and therefore the demand for homes, and/or have a moderating impact on home sales prices, in areas with relatively high housing prices and/or high state and local income taxes and real estate taxes, including in certain of our served markets in California. As a result, some communities in our California operations could experience lower net orders and/or a tempering of average sales prices in future periods depending on how homebuyers react to the tax law changes under the Tax Cuts and Job Act. In addition, if the federal government further changes, or a state government changes, its income tax laws by eliminating or substantially reducing the income tax benefits associated with homeownership, the after-tax cost of owning a home could measurably increase. Any increases in personal income tax rates and/or tax deduction limits or restrictions enacted at the federal or state levels, including those enacted under the Tax Cuts and Job Act, could adversely impact demand for and/or selling prices of new homes, including our homes, and the effect on our consolidated financial statements could be adverse and material.. Increases in the Company's cancellation rate could have a negative impact on the Company's home sales revenue and home building gross margins.. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, the Company experienced cancellation rates of 15%, 16%, and 20%, respectively. Cancellations negatively impact the number of closed homes, net new home orders, home sales revenue and the Company's results of operations, as well as the number of homes in backlog. Home order cancellations can result from a number of factors, including but not limited to declines or slow appreciation in the market value of homes, increases in the supply of homes available to be purchased, increased competition, higher mortgage interest rates, buyer's remorse, homebuyers' inability to sell their existing homes, homebuyers' inability to obtain suitable financing, including providing sufficient down payments, and adverse changes in economic conditions. Many of these factors are beyond the Company's control. Increased levels of home order cancellations would have a negative impact on the Company's home sales revenue and financial and operating results.. If we are not able to develop our communities successfully and in a timely manner, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted.. Before a community can open for sale, significant expenditures are required to acquire land, to obtain or renew permits, development approvals and entitlements and to construct significant portions of project infrastructure, amenities, model homes and sales facilities. There may be a lag between the time we acquire land or options for land for development or developed home sites and the time we can bring the communities to market and sell homes. We can also experience significant delays in obtaining permits, development approvals and entitlements, delays resulting from local, state or federal government approvals and utility company constraints or delays, or delays in a land seller's lot deliveries or from rights or claims asserted by third parties, which may be outside of our control. Additionally, we may also have to renew existing permits and there can be no assurances that these permits will be renewed. Lag time varies on a project-by-project basis depending on the complexity of the project, its stage of development when acquired, and the regulatory and community issues involved. As a result of these possible delays, we face the risk that demand for housing may decline during this period and we will not be able to open communities and sell homes at expected prices or within anticipated time frames or at all. The market value of home inventories, undeveloped land, options for land and developed home sites can fluctuate significantly because of changing market conditions. Each of these factors may have a significant negative impact on our financial and operational results.. Our long-term growth depends upon our ability to acquire land at reasonable prices.. The Company's business depends on its ability to obtain land for the development of its residential communities at reasonable prices and with terms that meet its underwriting criteria. The Company's ability to obtain land for new residential communities may be adversely affected by changes in the general availability of land, the willingness of land sellers to sell land at reasonable prices, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning, regulations that limit housing density, and other market conditions. If the supply of land appropriate for development of residential communities is limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, the number of homes that the Company builds and sells may decline. Additionally, the ability of the Company to open new projects could be impacted if the Company elects not to purchase lots under option contracts. To the extent that the Company is unable to purchase land timely or enter into new contracts for the purchase of land at reasonable prices, due to the lag time between the time the Company acquires land and the time the Company begins selling homes, the Company's home sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted and/or the Company could be required to scale back the Company's operations in a given market.. Financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by any decrease in the value of land inventory, as well as by the associated carrying costs.. 21. Table of Contents. The Company continuously acquires land for replacement and expansion of land inventory within the markets in which it builds. The risks inherent in purchasing and developing land increase as consumer demand for housing decreases, and thus, the Company may have bought and developed land on which homes cannot be profitably built and sold. The Company employs measures to manage inventory risks which may not be successful.. We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community, including costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses in a poorly performing project or market, and the Company may have to sell homes at significantly lower margins or at a loss, which conditions may persist for extended periods of time. If the rate at which we sell and deliver homes slows or falls, or if we delay the opening of new home communities for sales due to adjustments in our marketing strategy or other reasons, each of which occurred throughout the previous housing downturn, we may incur additional costs and it will take a longer period of time for us to recover our costs, including the costs we incurred in acquiring and developing land.. Construction defect, home warranty, soil subsidence and building-related and other claims may be asserted against the Company in the ordinary course of business, and the Company may be subject to liability for such claims.. As a homebuilder, we have been, and continue to be, subject to construction defect, product liability and home warranty claims, including moisture intrusion and related claims, arising in the ordinary course of business, in addition to other potentially significant lawsuits, arbitration proceedings and other claims, including breach of contract claims, contractual disputes, personal injury claims and disputes related to defective title or property misdescription. These claims are common to the homebuilding industry and can be costly.. There can be no assurance that any current or future developments undertaken by us will be free from defects once completed. Construction defects may occur on projects and developments and may arise during a significant period of time after completion. Defects arising on a development attributable to us may lead to significant contractual or other liabilities. We also currently conduct a significant portion of our business in California, one of the most highly regulated and litigious jurisdictions in the United States, which imposes a ten year, strict liability tail on many construction liability claims and therefore, our potential losses and expenses due to litigation, new laws and regulations may be greater than those of our competitors who have smaller or no California operations. For these and other reasons, we establish warranty, claim and litigation reserves that we believe are adequate based on historical experience in the markets in which we operate and judgment of the risks associated with the types of homes, lots and land we sell. We also obtain certain indemnities from contractors and subcontractors generally covering claims related to damages resulting from faulty workmanship and materials and enroll a majority of these contractors and subcontractors in our Owner Controlled Insurance Program providing general liability coverage for these types of claims, subject to self-insured retentions.. With respect to certain general liability exposures, including construction defect claims, product liability claims and related claims, assessment of claims and the related liability and reserve estimation process is highly judgmental due to the complex nature of these exposures, with each exposure exhibiting unique circumstances. Furthermore, once claims are asserted for construction defects, it can be difficult to determine the extent to which the assertion of these claims will expand. Plaintiffs may seek to consolidate multiple parties in one lawsuit, bring suit on behalf of a homeowners association, or HOA, or seek class action status in some of these legal proceedings with potential class sizes that vary from case to case. Consolidated, HOA and class action lawsuits can be costly to defend and, if we were to lose any consolidated, HOA or certified class action suit, it could result in substantial liability.. In addition to difficulties with respect to claim assessment and liability and reserve estimation, some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. Furthermore, contractual indemnities with contractors and subcontractors can be difficult to enforce, and we may also be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions with respect to our insurance policies, and we include our subcontractors on our general liability insurance and our ability to seek indemnity for insured claims is significantly limited. Furthermore, any product liability or warranty claims made against us, whether or not they are viable, may lead to negative publicity, which could impact our reputation and future home sales. In addition, manufactured product defects may result in delays, additional costs and remediation efforts which could have a negative impact on our new home deliveries and financial and operating results.. Although we have obtained insurance for construction defect claims subject to applicable self-insurance retentions, such policies may not be available or adequate to cover liability for damages, the cost of repairs, and/or the expense of litigation surrounding current claims, and future claims may arise out of events or circumstances not covered by insurance and not subject to effective indemnification agreements with our subcontractors.. 22. Table of Contents. For these reasons, although we actively manage our claims and litigation and actively monitor our reserves and insurance coverage, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, indemnity arrangements and reserves will be adequate to cover liability for any damages, the cost of repairs and litigation, or any other related expenses surrounding the current claims to which we are subject or any future claims that may arise. Such damages and expenses, to the extent that they are not covered by insurance or redress against contractors and subcontractors, could materially and adversely affect our consolidated financial statements and results.. Adverse weather and geological conditions may increase costs, cause project delays and reduce consumer demand for housing, all of which could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.. As a homebuilder, the Company is subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond management's control, such as droughts, floods, wildfires, landslides, soil subsidence, earthquakes and other weather-related and geologic events which could damage projects, cause delays in completion of projects, or reduce consumer demand for housing, and shortages in labor or materials, which could delay project completion and cause increases in the prices for labor or materials, thereby affecting the Company's sales and profitability. Many of the Company's projects are located in California, which has experienced significant earthquake activity and seasonal wildfires. Areas in Colorado have also been subjected to seasonal wildfires and soil subsidence, as well as periods of extremely cold weather and snow.  Further, the Company operates in markets in the Pacific Northwest that experience high levels of rain, and there may be significant rainfall from a strong El Nino weather pattern in California and other Western U.S. regions. In addition to directly damaging the Company's projects, earthquakes or other geologic events could damage roads and highways providing access to those projects, thereby adversely affecting the Company's ability to market homes in those areas and possibly increasing the costs of completion.. There are some risks of loss for which the Company may be unable to purchase insurance coverage. For example, losses associated with landslides, earthquakes and other geologic events may not be insurable and other losses, such as those arising from terrorism, may not be economically insurable. A sizable uninsured loss could adversely affect the Company's business, prospects, liquidity, results of operations or financial condition.. The Company may not be able to compete effectively against competitors in the homebuilding industry.. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive and there are relatively low barriers to entry. Homebuilders compete for, among other things, homebuying customers, desirable properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. The Company competes both with large homebuilding companies, some of which have greater financial, marketing and sales resources than the Company, and with smaller local builders. Our competitors may independently develop land and construct housing units that are substantially similar to our products and may employ increased sales incentives for such products. Many of these competitors also have long-standing relationships with subcontractors and suppliers in the markets in which we operate. We currently build in several of the top markets in the nation and, therefore, we expect to continue to face additional competition from new entrants into our markets. The Company also competes for sales with individual resales of existing homes and available rental housing. These competitive conditions can result in:. • our delivering fewer homes;. • our selling homes at lower prices;. • our offering or increasing sales incentives, discounts or price concessions for our homes;. • our experiencing lower housing gross profit margins, particularly if we cannot raise our selling prices to cover increased land development, home construction or overhead costs;. • our selling fewer homes or experiencing a higher number of cancellations by homebuyers;. • impairments in the value of our inventory and other assets;. • difficulty in acquiring desirable land that meets our investment return or marketing standards, and in selling our interests in land that no longer meet such standards on favorable terms;. • difficulty in our acquiring raw materials and skilled management and trade labor at acceptable prices;. • delays in the development of land and/or the construction of our homes; and/or. • difficulty in securing external financing, performance bonds or letter of credit facilities on favorable terms.. These competitive conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial statements by decreasing our revenues, impairing our ability to successfully implement our current strategies, increasing our costs and/or diminishing growth in our local or regional homebuilding businesses.. 23. Table of Contents. In addition, existing and increased competition could prevent the Company from acquiring attractive land parcels on which to build homes or make such acquisitions more expensive, hinder its growth efforts, and lead to pricing pressures on the Company's homes that may adversely impact its margins and revenues. Furthermore, a number of the Company's competitors have larger staffs, larger marketing organizations and substantially greater financial resources than those of the Company, and accordingly, they may be able to compete more effectively in one or more of the markets in which the Company operates. Many of these competitors also have longstanding relationships with subcontractors and suppliers in the markets in which the Company operates. The Company also competes for sales with individual resales of existing homes and with available rental housing.. Labor and raw materials and building supply shortages and price fluctuations could delay or increase the cost of home construction and reduce our sales and earnings.. The residential construction industry experiences serious material shortages from time to time, including shortages in labor, insulation, drywall, cement, steel and lumber. These labor and material shortages can be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing and during periods where the regions in which we operate experience natural disasters that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures. From time to time, we have experienced volatile price swings in the cost of labor and materials, including in particular, the cost of labor, lumber, cement, steel and drywall. In addition, environmental and other regulations and import tariffs have had, and in the future could continue to have, an adverse impact on the cost of certain raw materials such as lumber. The Company generally is unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be in advance of the construction of the home.  During the most recent economic downturn, a large number of qualified tradespeople went out of business or otherwise exited the market, which may limit capacity for new construction until the labor base grows.  Additionally, the cost of petroleum products, which are used to deliver our materials, fluctuates and may be subject to increased volatility as a result of geopolitical events or accidents, which could affect the price of our important raw materials.  Shortages could cause delays in and increase our costs of home construction, and increases in construction costs may, over time, erode the Company's gross margins from home sales, particularly if pricing competition restricts the ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing gross margins from home sales, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be successful in integrating acquisitions or implementing our growth strategies.. In December 2012, we acquired Village Homes marking our entry into the Colorado market, and in August 2014, we closed the Polygon Acquisition, marking our entry into the Washington and Oregon markets, and we may in the future consider growth or expansion of our operations in our current markets or in new markets, whether through strategic acquisitions of homebuilding companies or otherwise. The magnitude, timing and nature of any future expansion will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to identify suitable additional markets and/or acquisition candidates, the negotiation of acceptable terms, our financial capabilities and general economic and business conditions. Our expansion into new or existing markets, whether through acquisition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, and any future acquisitions could result in the dilution of existing shareholders if we issue our common shares as consideration. Acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired company's operations, the incurence of unanticipated liabilities or expenses, the risk of impairing inventory and other assets related to the acquisition, the diversion of management's attention and resources from other business concerns, risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company.. We may write-off intangible assets, such as goodwill.. We have recorded intangible assets, including goodwill in connection with the Polygon Acquisition.  On an ongoing basis, we will evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of the value of intangible assets.  As circumstances change, we cannot assure that the value of these intangible assets will be realized by us.  If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we will be required to write-off the impaired portion of intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs.. The Company's success depends on key executive officers and personnel.. The Company's success is dependent upon the efforts and abilities of its executive officers and other key employees, many of whom have significant experience in the homebuilding industry and in the Company's divisional markets. In particular, the Company is dependent upon the services of William H. Lyon, Executive Chairman of the Board, and Matthew R. Zaist, Chief Executive Officer and President, as well as the services of the corporate senior management, division presidents. 24. Table of Contents. and division management teams and other personnel in the corporate office. The loss of the services or limitation in the availability of any of these executives or key personnel, for any reason, could hinder the execution of our business strategy and have a material adverse effect upon the Company's business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition or results of operation. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets.. Moreover, our employment agreements with certain members of senior management provide that if their employment terminates under certain circumstances, we may be required to pay them significant amounts of severance compensation.  In addition, we have not obtained key man life insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of death or disability of any of our key personnel.. Power and natural resource shortages or price increases could have an adverse impact on operations.. Certain of the markets in which we operate, including California, have experienced power and resource shortages, including mandatory periods without electrical power, changes to water availability and significant increases in utility and resource costs. These conditions may cause us to incur additional costs and we may not be able to complete construction on a timely basis if they were to continue for an extended period of time.  Shortages of natural resources, particularly water and power, may make it more difficult to obtain regulatory approval of new developments. The Company may incur additional costs and may not be able to complete construction on a timely basis if such power shortages and utility rate increases continue. Furthermore, power shortages and rate increases may adversely affect the regional economies in which the Company operates, which may reduce demand for housing. The Company's operations may be adversely impacted if further rate increases and/or power shortages occur.. Increased insurance costs and reduced insurance coverages may affect the Company's results of operations and increase the potential exposure to liability.. Recently, lawsuits have been filed against builders asserting claims of personal injury and property damage, including arising from the presence of mold or other materials in residential dwellings. Some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements against these builders. The Company's insurance may not cover all of the potential claims, including personal injury claims, or such coverage may become prohibitively expensive. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage, a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, liquidity, results of operations or financial condition could result.. The costs of insuring against construction defect, product liability and director and officer claims are substantial and the cost of insurance for the Company's operations has risen, deductibles and retentions have increased and the availability of insurance has diminished. Significant increases in the cost of insurance coverage or significant limitations on coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, liquidity, results of operations or financial condition from such increased costs or from liability for significant uninsurable or underinsured claims.. We are party to two joint venture arrangements to provide certain mortgage related services to our customers and other homebuyers, which ventures are subject to extensive government regulations.. In connection with the Polygon Acquisition we acquired a non-controlling interest in a mortgage services joint venture to provide services, in part, to our home buyers in our Washington and Oregon divisions, and we also formed a second mortgage services joint venture, in which we also hold a non-controlling interest, to provide services, in part, to our home buyers in our operating divisions in California, Nevada, Arizona and Colorado.  The business operations of these mortgage joint ventures are heavily regulated and subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and quasi-governmental agencies.  The mortgage industry remains under intense scrutiny and continues to face increasing regulation at the federal, state and local level. If either of the ventures are determined to have violated federal or state regulations, they may face the loss of licenses or other required approvals or could be subject to fines, penalties, civil actions or could be required to suspend their activities, and we may face the same consequences for any violations of regulations applicable to us, each of which could have an adverse effect on the ventures', and our, reputation, results and operations.  In addition, to the extent that either of the ventures were faced with any claims for losses or liabilities arising from the services performed that were in excess of any reserve levels, then there may be an adverse impact on the ventures' financial condition or ability to operate, or cause us to recognize losses with respect to our equity interest in the ventures, or cause our customers to seek mortgage loans from other lenders and/or experience mortgage loan funding issues that could delay our delivering homes to them and/or cause them to cancel their home purchase contracts with us.. We could be responsible for employment-related liabilities with respect to our contractors' employees.. Several other homebuilders have received inquiries from regulatory agencies concerning whether homebuilders using contractors are deemed to be employers of the employees of such contractors under certain circumstances. Although contractors. 25. Table of Contents. are independent of the homebuilders that contract with them under normal management practices and the terms of trade contracts and subcontracts within the homebuilding industry, if regulatory agencies reclassify the employees of contractors as employees of homebuilders, homebuilders using contractors could be responsible for wage and hour labor laws, workers' compensation and other employment-related liabilities of their contractors.  Even if we are not deemed to be joint employers with our contractors, we may be subject to legislation that requires us to share liability with our contractors for the payment of wages and the failure to secure valid workers' compensation coverage.  In addition, California's Governor recently signed legislation, AB 1701, that will require direct construction contractors to assume and be liable for unpaid wages, fringe or other benefit payments or contributions, including interest, incurred by a subcontractor at any tier for contracts entered into on or after January 1, 2018. While we are still analyzing the ultimate impact this legislation could have on our business, we believe it may result in increased costs.. Inflation could adversely affect the Company's business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, particularly in a period of oversupply of homes or declining home sale prices.. Inflation can adversely affect the Company by increasing costs of land, materials and labor. However, the Company may be unable to offset these increases with higher sales prices. In addition, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on housing demand. In such an environment, the Company may be unable to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of cost inflation, and, accordingly, its margins could decrease. Furthermore, if we need to lower the price of our homes to meet demand, the value of our land inventory may decrease. Moreover, with inflation, the costs of capital can increase and purchasing power of the Company's cash resources can decline.. The Company's business is seasonal in nature and quarterly operating results can fluctuate.. The Company's quarterly operating results generally fluctuate by season. The Company typically achieves its highest new home sales orders in the spring and summer, although new homes sales order activity is also highly dependent on the number of active selling communities and the timing of new community openings. Because it typically takes the Company four to eight months to construct a new home, the Company delivers a greater number of homes in the second half of the calendar year as sales orders convert to home deliveries. As a result, the Company's revenues from homebuilding operations are typically higher in the second half of the year, particularly in the fourth quarter, and the Company generally experiences higher capital demands in the first half of the year when it incurs construction costs. If, due to construction delays or other causes, the Company cannot close its expected number of homes in the second half of the year, the Company's financial condition and full year results of operations may be adversely affected.. The Company may be unable to obtain suitable bonding for the development of its communities.. The Company provides bonds in the ordinary course of business to governmental authorities and others to ensure the completion of its projects and/or in support of obligations to build community improvements such as roads, sewers, water systems and other utilities, and to support similar development activities by certain of our joint ventures. As a result of the deterioration in market conditions during the recent downturn, surety providers became increasingly reluctant to issue new bonds and some providers were requesting credit enhancements (such as cash deposits or letters of credit) in order to maintain existing bonds or to issue new bonds, which trends may continue. The Company may also be required to provide performance bonds and/or letters of credit to secure our performance under various escrow agreements, financial guarantees and other arrangements. If the Company is unable to obtain performance bonds and/or letters of credit when required or the cost or operational restrictions or conditions imposed by issuers to obtain them increases significantly, the Company may not be able to develop or may be significantly delayed in developing a community or communities and/or may incur significant additional expenses, and, as a result, the Company's business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition or results of operation could be materially and adversely affected.. The Company is the managing member in certain joint venture limited liability companies and may become a managing member or general partner in future joint ventures, and therefore may be liable for joint venture obligations.. Certain of the Company's active joint ventures, or JVs, are organized as limited liability companies. The Company is the managing member in some of these and may serve as the managing member or general partner, in the case of a limited partnership JV, in future JVs. As a managing member or general partner, the Company may be liable for a JV's liabilities and obligations should the JV fail or be unable to pay these liabilities or obligations. These risks include, among others, that a partner in the JV may fail to fund its share of required capital contributions, that a partner may make poor business decisions or delay necessary actions, or that a partner may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our own.. 26. Table of Contents. Fluctuations in real estate values may require us to write - down the book value of our real estate assets.. The homebuilding industry is subject to significant variability and fluctuations in real estate values. As a result, the Company may be required to write-down the book value of certain real estate assets in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, and some of those write downs could be material. Any material write - downs of assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.. The Company assesses its projects on a quarterly basis, when indicators of impairment exist. Indicators of impairment include a decrease in demand for housing due to soft market conditions, competitive pricing pressures which reduce the average sales price of homes, which includes sales incentives for home buyers, sales absorption rates below management expectations, a decrease in the value of the underlying land and a decrease in projected cash flows for a particular project.. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties for reasonable prices in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions may be limited and we may be forced to hold non-income producing properties for extended periods of time.. Real estate investments are relatively difficult to sell quickly.  As a result, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited and we may be forced to hold non-income producing assets for an extended period of time.  We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms that we set or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us.  We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property.. Governmental laws and regulations may increase the Company's expenses, limit the number of homes that the Company can build or delay completion of projects.. The Company is subject to numerous local, state, federal and other statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, development, building design, construction and similar matters which impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular area, as well as governmental taxes, fees and levies on the acquisition and development of land parcels. These regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we must meet prior to being approved, if approved at all. We are subject to determinations by these authorities as to the adequacy of water and sewage facilities, roads and other local services. New housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, other public improvements, other development or impact fees, and fees imposed on developers to provide low- and moderate-income housing. Although we do not typically purchase land that is not entitled, to the extent that projects are not entitled, purchased lands may be subjected to periodic delays, changes in use, less intensive development or elimination of development in certain specific areas due to government regulations. The Company may also be subject to periodic delays, may be precluded entirely from developing in certain communities or may otherwise be restricted in our business activities due to building moratoriums or \"slow-growth\" or \"no-growth\" initiatives that could be implemented in the future in the states in which the Company operates. Such moratoriums can occur prior or subsequent to commencement of our operations, without notice or recourse. Local and state governments also have broad discretion regarding the imposition of development fees for projects in their jurisdiction. Projects for which the Company has received land use and development entitlements or approvals may still require a variety of other governmental approvals and permits during the development process and can also be impacted adversely by unforeseen health, safety, and welfare issues, which can further delay these projects or prevent their development. As a result of any of these factors, home sales could decline, costs increase, and projects could be materially delayed, any of which could negatively affect the Company's business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations, which may increase costs, limit the areas in which the Company can build homes and delay completion of projects.. The Company is also subject to a variety of local, state, federal and other statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the environment. The particular environmental laws which apply to any given homebuilding site vary according to the site's location, its environmental conditions and the present and former uses of the site, as well as adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, may cause the Company to incur substantial compliance and other costs, including significant fines and penalties for any violation, and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas, which could negatively affect the Company's results of operations.. Under various environmental laws, current or former owners of real estate, as well as certain other categories of parties, may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such. 27. Table of Contents. parties in connection with the contamination. In addition, in those cases where an endangered species is involved, environmental rules and regulations can result in the elimination of development in identified environmentally sensitive areas.. We may become subject to litigation, which could materially and adversely affect us.. In the future, we may become subject to litigation, including claims relating to our operations, breach of contract, securities offerings or otherwise in the ordinary course of business. Some of these claims may result in significant defense costs and potentially significant judgments against us, some of which are not, or cannot be, insured against. We cannot be certain of the ultimate outcomes of any claims that may arise in the future. Resolution of these types of matters against us may result in significant fines, judgments or settlements, which, if uninsured, or if the fines, judgments and settlements exceed insured levels, could adversely impact our earnings and cash flows, thereby materially and adversely affecting us. Litigation or the resolution of litigation may affect the availability or cost of our insurance coverage, which could materially and adversely impact us, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured, and materially and adversely impact our ability to attract directors and officers.. Changes in global or regional climate conditions and governmental response to such changes may limit, prevent or increase the costs of our planned or future growth activities.. Projected climate change, if it occurs, may exacerbate the scarcity or presence of water and other natural resources in affected regions, which could limit, prevent or increase the costs of residential development in certain areas. In addition, a variety of new legislation is being enacted, or considered for enactment, at the federal, state and local level relating to energy and climate change, and as climate change concerns continue to grow, legislation and regulations of this nature are expected to continue. This legislation relates to items such as carbon dioxide emissions control and building codes that impose energy efficiency standards. Government mandates, standards or regulations intended to mitigate or reduce greenhouse gas emissions or projected climate change impacts could result in prohibitions or severe restrictions on land development in certain areas, increased energy and transportation costs, and increased compliance expenses and other financial obligations to meet permitting or land development or home construction-related requirements that we may be unable to fully recover (due to market conditions or other factors), any of which could cause a reduction in our homebuilding gross margins and materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Energy-related initiatives could similarly affect a wide variety of companies throughout the United States and the world, and because our results of operations are heavily dependent on significant amounts of raw materials, these initiatives could have an indirect adverse impact on our financial performance to the extent the manufacturers and suppliers of our materials are burdened with expensive cap and trade or other climate related regulations.. As a result, climate change impacts, and laws and land development and home construction standards, and/or the manner in which they are interpreted or implemented, to address potential climate change concerns could increase our costs and have a long-term adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. This is a particular concern in the western United States, where some of the most extensive and stringent environmental laws and residential building construction standards in the country have been enacted, and where our business operations are geographically concentrated.. Information technology failures, data security breaches and other similar adverse events could harm our business.. We rely on information technology and other computer resources to perform important operational and marketing activities as well as to maintain our business and employee records and financial data. Our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer attacks by hackers, viruses, catastrophes, hardware and software failures and breach of data security protocols by our personnel. Although we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other actions to minimize the risk of cyber incidents and otherwise protect our information technology, computer intrusion efforts are becoming increasingly sophisticated and even the controls that we have installed might be breached. Further, many of these computer resources are provided to us or are maintained on our behalf by third-party service providers pursuant to agreements that specify certain security and service level standards, but which are ultimately outside of our control.  If we were to experience a significant period of disruption in our information technology systems that involve interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. Additionally, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary, personal and confidential information, which could result in significant financial or reputational damage to us.. A major health and safety incident relating to our business could be costly in terms of potential liabilities and reputational damage.. 28. Table of Contents. Building sites are inherently dangerous, and operating in the homebuilding and land development industry poses certain inherent health and safety risks to those working at such sites. Due to health and safety regulatory requirements and the number of our projects, health and safety performance is critical to the success of all areas of our business.  Any failure in health and safety performance may result in penalties for non-compliance with relevant regulatory requirements or litigation, and a failure that results in a major or significant health and safety incident is likely to be costly in terms of potential liabilities incurred as a result. Such a failure could generate significant negative publicity and have a corresponding impact on our reputation, our relationships with relevant regulatory agencies, governmental authorities and local communities, and our ability to win new business, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Risks Related to the Pending RSI Acquisition. The Company cannot assure you that the proposed RSI Acquisition will be completed.. There are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to the RSI Acquisition. For example, the RSI Acquisition may not be completed, or may not be completed in the time frame, on the terms or in the manner currently anticipated, as a result of a number of factors, including, among other things, the failure of one or more of the conditions to closing in the acquisition agreements. There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing of the RSI Acquisition will be satisfied or waived or that other events will not intervene to delay or result in the failure to close the RSI Acquisition. The acquisition agreements may be terminated by the parties thereto under certain circumstances, including, without limitation, if the RSI Acquisition has not been completed by April 1, 2018, assuming all conditions to closing have been satisfied or waived. Any delay in closing, or a failure to close, could have a negative impact on our business and the trading prices of our securities.. The Company will incur significant transaction and acquisition-related integration costs in connection with the RSI Acquisition.. Although we anticipate achieving synergies in connection with the RSI Acquisition, we also expect to incur costs implementing such cost-saving measures. We cannot currently identify the timing, nature and amount of all such costs. Although we believe that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, will offset certain incremental transaction- and acquisition-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. We have identified some, but not all, of the actions necessary to achieve our anticipated cost and operational savings. Accordingly, the cost and operational savings may not be achievable in our anticipated amount or timeframe or at all.. The Company and RSI will be subject to business uncertainties before and after the consummation of the RSI Acquisition that could adversely affect our and its business.. Uncertainty about the effect of the RSI Acquisition on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us and RSI. Although we and RSI intend to take actions to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair our and their ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the RSI Acquisition is completed and for a period of time thereafter. These uncertainties could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us and RSI to seek to change existing business relationships with us and RSI.. Additionally, employee retention could be reduced before or after the consummation of the RSI Acquisition, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles or encounter difficulties in the integration process. The successful integration of RSI after completion of the RSI Acquisition will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain its key employees following the RSI Acquisition. If, despite our and RSI's retention efforts, key employees depart before or after consummation of the RSI Acquisition, our business could be harmed and we may not realize all of the expected benefits of the RSI Acquisition.. Prior to the RSI Acquisition, RSI was a privately-held company and its new obligations of being a part of a public company may require significant resources and management attention.. Upon consummation of the RSI Acquisition, RSI and the other entities being acquired from RSI will become subsidiaries of our consolidated Company, and will need to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC and other regulatory bodies. We will need to ensure that RSI establishes and maintains effective disclosure controls as well as internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, and such compliance efforts may be costly and may divert the attention of management.. 29. Table of Contents. The Company's assumptions relating to the RSI Acquisition may prove to be materially inaccurate.. We have made, or will make, certain assumptions relating to the RSI Acquisition, including, for example:. • projections of RSI's future revenues and other metrics of financial performance;. • the amount of goodwill and intangibles that will result from the acquisition;. • purchase accounting adjustments that we expect will be recorded in our financial statements in connection with the RSI Acquisition in future periods;. • acquisition costs, including transaction and integration costs; and. • other financial and strategic rationales and risks of the acquisition.. These assumptions, when made, may turn out to be materially inaccurate, including for reasons beyond our control. If these assumptions are incorrect or our valuation consultants do not concur with our judgments and require that we change or modify our assumptions, such change or modification could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations or our financial results.. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure. We have substantial outstanding indebtedness and may incur additional debt in the future.. We are highly leveraged.  At December 31, 2017, the total outstanding principal amount of our debt was approximately $1,030.2 million.  In addition, we have the ability to incur additional indebtedness under our Revolving Credit Facility, subject to a borrowing base formula, and under our project-level financing facilities.  As of December 31, 2017, we would have had up to approximately $278.4 million of additional borrowing capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility and our project-level financing facilities. Moreover, the terms of the indentures governing our outstanding Senior Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility permit us to incur additional debt, in each case, subject to certain restrictions.  In addition, we intend to fund a portion of the purchase price of the RSI Acquisition with debt financing, which would increase our level of indebtedness. Our high level of indebtedness could have detrimental consequences, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing as needed for working capital, land acquisition costs, building costs, other capital expenditures, or general corporate purposes, or to refinance existing indebtedness before its scheduled maturity, may be limited;. • we will need to use a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available for other purposes;. • if we are unable to comply with the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness, the holders of that indebtedness could accelerate that indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us;. • if we have a higher level of indebtedness than some of our competitors, it may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the industry, including increased competition;. • the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the debt being refinanced; and. • some of our current debt has, and any additional debt we incur may have, a floating rate of interest.  The FOMC recently raised the target range for the federal funds rate.  We are unable to predict if, or when, the FOMC will announce further increases and the impact of any such increases on our floating rate interest rates.. We cannot be certain that cash flow from operations will be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt, support operations and meet other obligations.  If we do not have the resources to meet these and other obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our outstanding debt, sell assets or borrow more money.  We may not be able to do so on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced to dispose of our assets on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses. Defaults under our debt agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.. The agreements governing our debt impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions.. 30. Table of Contents. The agreements governing our debt impose significant operating and financial restrictions. These restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain equity interests;. • pay dividends or distributions, repurchase equity or prepay subordinated debt;. • make certain investments;. • sell assets;. • incur liens;. • create certain restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to transfer assets;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • create unrestricted subsidiaries; and. • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. As a result of these restrictions, our ability to obtain additional financing as needed for working capital, land acquisition costs, building costs, other capital expenditures, or general corporate purposes, or to refinance existing indebtedness before its scheduled maturity, may be limited. In addition, our Revolving Credit Facility contains a maximum leverage ratio that remained at 62.5% from December 31, 2016 through and including December 30, 2017, and decreased to 60% on the last day of the 2017 fiscal year and will remain at 60% thereafter. Our leverage ratio as of December 31, 2017, as calculated under the Revolving Credit Facility, was approximately 51.7%. Failure to have sufficient borrowing base availability in the future or to be in compliance with our maximum leverage ratio under the Revolving Credit Facility could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. In addition, we may in the future enter into other agreements refinancing or otherwise governing indebtedness which impose yet additional restrictions and covenants, including covenants limiting our ability to incur additional debt, make certain investments, reduce liquidity below certain levels, make distributions to our stockholders and otherwise affect our operating policies. These restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness.. A breach of the covenants under the indentures governing our notes or any of the other agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default under the indentures governing our notes or other such agreements.. A default under the indentures governing our outstanding Senior Notes, Revolving Credit Facility or other agreements governing our indebtedness may allow our creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies.  In addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing the Revolving Credit Facility would permit the lenders thereunder to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under the Revolving Credit Facility.  Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our Revolving Credit Facility or other future secured credit facilities, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders or the holders of our notes accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure that we and our subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, we may be:. • limited in how we conduct our business;. • unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or. • unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.. 31. Table of Contents. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our plans.. Potential future downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect our access to capital and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.. In the past, rating agencies have downgraded our corporate credit rating due to the deterioration in our homebuilding operations, credit metrics and other earnings-based metrics, as well as our high leverage and a significant decrease in our tangible net worth.  These ratings and our current credit condition affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt, and negative changes in these ratings may result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of any new debt. Our credit ratings could be downgraded or rating agencies could issue adverse commentaries in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In particular, a weakening of our financial condition, including a significant increase in our leverage or decrease in our profitability or cash flows, could adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds, result in a credit rating downgrade or change in outlook, or otherwise increase our cost of borrowing.. We may not have access to other capital resources to fund our liquidity needs.. There is no assurance that cash generated from our operations, proceeds raised in our capital markets transactions, or borrowings incurred under our credit agreements will be sufficient to finance our capital projects or otherwise fund our liquidity needs. If our future cash flows from operations and other capital resources are insufficient to finance our capital projects or otherwise fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to:. • reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures;. •  sell assets;. • obtain additional debt or equity capital; or. •  restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, including the notes, on or before maturity.. These alternative measures may not be successful and we may not be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, the terms of our debt, including the notes and our credit agreements, will limit our ability to pursue these alternatives.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock. Concentration of ownership of the voting power of our capital stock may prevent other stockholders from influencing corporate decisions and create perceived conflicts of interest.. Our common stock consists of two classes: Class A and Class B. Holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share, and holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to five votes per share, on all matters entitled to be voted on by our common stockholders. Based on the number of shares outstanding as of February 14, 2018, William H. Lyon, individually or through affiliated entities, holds approximately 50% of the voting power of the Company's common stock, assuming exercise in full of the warrant to purchase additional shares of Class B Common Stock, through ownership of 100% of the outstanding Class B Common Stock, a warrant to purchase 1,907,550 additional shares of Class B Common Stock and ownership of shares of Class A Common Stock. In addition, our Amended and Restated Certificates of Incorporation provides for certain preemptive rights to the holders of our Class B Common Stock, which would permit such holders to purchase additional shares of Class B Common Stock up to a certain amount in order to preserve their then-current voting power in the event of certain issuances of our Class A Common Stock, subject to certain exceptions.. William H. Lyon may have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This ownership concentration may adversely impact the trading of our capital stock because of a perceived conflict of interest that may exist, thereby depressing the value of our capital stock.. Future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause the price of our Class A Common Stock to decline.. 32. Table of Contents. Any sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, may cause the market price for our Class A Common Stock to decline. We had 34,267,510 shares of Class A Common Stock and 4,817,394 shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding as of February 14, 2018, excluding 1,907,550 shares of Class B Common Stock issuable upon the exercise of a warrant held by the holder of our Class B Common Stock and shares of unvested restricted stock and Class A Common Stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options. All of these shares, other than the shares of Class B Common Stock beneficially owned by William H. Lyon through Lyon Shareholder 2012, LLC, and certain shares of Class A Common Stock held by our directors and officers and other \"affiliates\", as defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act, or Rule 144, are freely tradeable without restriction under the Securities Act. Based on current ownership trends, the Company believes that Stockholders holding up to approximately 4,817,394 shares of our common stock as of February 14, 2018, which includes the Class A Common Stock that may be issued upon conversion of the outstanding Class B Common Stock on a one-to-one basis, have exercised their registration rights to include their shares of common stock in registration statements related to our securities, including our Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-194517) that was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 20, 2014.  Shares of common stock sold under this shelf registration statement can be freely sold in the public market, and even if not sold pursuant to an effective registration statement, shares held by affiliates may be sold under Rule 144 subject to the volume and manner of sale, and other, requirements thereunder.  Any sale of a large number of shares of common stock by our existing stockholders could reduce the trading price of our common stock.  In addition, investors would incur dilution upon the exercise of stock options or other equity-based awards under our equity incentive plan, and upon any exercise of preemptive rights granted pursuant to our Certificate of Incorporation to holders of our Class B Common Stock upon the issuance of Class A Common Stock in potential future offerings.  We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon exercise of outstanding options or for other reasons. Any such future issuances of our common stock or convertible or other equity-linked securities will dilute the ownership interest of the holders of our Class A Common Stock. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or other equity-related securities or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price of our Class A Common Stock.. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock.. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we do not plan to do so in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Further, the payment of cash dividends is restricted under the terms of the agreements governing our debt instruments and may be restricted under the terms of our future debt agreements. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future.. The price of our Class A Common Stock is subject to volatility related or unrelated to our operations.. The market price of the Class A Common Stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including:. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • adverse market reaction to the level of our indebtedness;. • market reaction to our capital markets transactions;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • actions by stockholders;. • increased volatility as a result of the relative size of our public float;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • general market, economic and political conditions, including an economic slowdown or dislocation in the global credit markets;. • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies;. • changes in accounting principles; and. • passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or the homebuilding industry.. 33. Table of Contents. In addition, the stock market itself is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons related and unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock.. Further, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation. The threat or filing of class action litigation lawsuits could cause the price of our Class A Common Stock to decline.. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on your investment in our Class A Common Stock and, as a result, you could lose some or all of your investment.. We incur substantial costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could harm our operating results.. As a public company, we are required to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also incur costs associated with current corporate governance requirements, including requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. The expenses incurred by public companies for reporting and corporate governance purposes have increased dramatically in recent years. We expect these rules and regulations to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly.  Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards result in increased administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities. In addition, if we fail to implement or maintain the requirements with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, our ability to continue to report our operating results on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired and we could be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or NYSE. Any such action could harm our reputation and the confidence of investors and customers in our company and could materially adversely affect our business and cause the price of our Class A Common Stock to decline.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors' views of us.. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to enable the Company to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and, commencing with the year ended December 31, 2014, our auditors have begun attesting to and reporting on our internal controls and could, as part of that documentation and testing, identify areas for further attention or improvement. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require additional personnel, specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems and require a significant period of time to complete.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in implementing or maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting and financial processes. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex, and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. Additionally, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency would require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and management may not be able to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in a timely manner. The existence of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could materially and adversely affect us.. Anti-takeover provisions in our corporate organizational documents, under Delaware law and in our debt covenants could make an acquisition of our company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our capital stock.. 34. Table of Contents. Provisions in our corporate organizational documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Such provisions include, but are not limited to:. • authorizing the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval;. • any action to be taken by holders of our common stock must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent;. • special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the Chairman of our board of directors, our Chief Executive Officer or our lead independent director;. • our dual-class voting structure that provides for five-to-one voting rights for holders of our Class B Common Stock;. • holders of our Class B Common Stock possess certain preemptive rights allowing them to purchase additional shares of Class B Common Stock in the event of certain issuances of Class A Common Stock, subject to certain exceptions;. • vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, but not by stockholders;. • our bylaws require advance notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations;. • an amendment to our bylaws requires a supermajority vote of stockholders; and. • after the conversion of all Class B Common Stock, our board of directors will be staggered into three separate classes, with classes fixed by the board, and, once staggered, the removal of directors requires a supermajority vote of stockholders.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any \"interested\" stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an \"interested\" stockholder. In addition, some of our debt covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt may delay or prevent a change in control.. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of liquidating and dividend distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt securities or additional offerings of equity securities. Upon bankruptcy or liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock, if any, and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments or both that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock. Our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. As a result, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings, and purchasers of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their ownership interest in our company.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish, or cease publishing, research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Class A Common Stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our Class A Common Stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of our Class A Common Stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our Class A Common Stock could decrease, which could cause the price of our Class A Common Stock and trading volume to decline.. 35. Table of Contents. Non-U.S. holders may be subject to United States federal income tax on gain realized on the sale or disposition of shares of our Class A Common Stock.. The Company believes that it is a \"United States real property holding corporation,\" or USRPHC, for United States federal income tax purposes. If the Company is a USRPHC, non-U.S. holders may be subject to United States federal income tax (including withholding tax) upon a sale or disposition of our Class A Common Stock, if (i) our Class A Common Stock is not regularly traded on an established securities market, or (ii) our Class A Common Stock is regularly traded on an established securities market, and the non-U.S. holder owned, actually or constructively, Class A Common Stock with a fair market value of more than 5% of the total fair market value of such common stock throughout the shorter of the five-year period ending on the date of the sale or other disposition or the non-U.S. holder's holding period for such common stock.. There is no assurance that our stock repurchase program will result in further repurchases of our common stock or enhance long term stockholder value, and repurchases, if any, could affect our stock price and increase its volatility and will diminish our cash reserves.. As announced on February 22, 2017, our board of directors approved a $50 million stock repurchase program.  Repurchases pursuant to a stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility and will reduce the market liquidity for our stock.  The existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program.  Additionally, these repurchases will diminish our cash reserves, which could impact our ability to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions and would result in lower overall returns on our cash balances.  The Company has conducted certain repurchases under the stock repurchase program, and additional capacity remains for future repurchases. There can be no assurance that any further stock repurchases will, in fact, occur, or, if they occur, that they will enhance stockholder value.  Although stock repurchase programs is intended to enhance long term stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the effectiveness of these repurchases.. Other Risks. The Company may not be able to benefit from its tax attributes.. In connection with our emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, we were able to retain the tax basis in our assets as well as a portion of our U.S. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, or the Tax Attributes. Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, provide an annual limitation with respect to the ability of a corporation to utilize its Tax Attributes against future U.S. taxable income in the event of a change in ownership. Implementation of the Plan upon our emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings triggered a change in ownership for purposes of Section 382 and our annual Section 382 limitation is $3.6 million. As a result, our future U.S. taxable income may not be fully offset by the Tax Attributes if such income exceeds our annual limitation, and we may incur a tax liability with respect to such income. In addition, subsequent changes in ownership for purposes of the Code could further diminish our ability to utilize Tax Attributes.. Geopolitical risks and market disruption could adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Geopolitical events, acts of war or terrorism or any outbreak or escalation of hostilities throughout the world or health pandemics, may have a substantial impact on the economy, consumer confidence, the housing market, our employees and our customers. Historically, perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts or wars and related geopolitical risks have also created significant economic and political uncertainties. If any such events were to occur, or there was a perception that they were about to occur, they could have a material adverse impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. 36. Table of Contents"
