[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.. Our success depends significantly on the general economic conditions of the State of Michigan. Unlike larger regional or national banks that are more geographically diversified, the Bank provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Southeast Michigan and Northwest Ohio.. Southeast Michigan and the United States as a whole went through a prolonged downward economic cycle that began in 2007. Significant weakness in market conditions adversely impacted all aspects of the economy including our business. In particular, dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, negatively impacted the credit performance of construction loans, which resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions was greatly reduced, and local governments and many businesses experienced serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. In addition, unemployment had been high throughout this period. The business environment was adverse for many households and businesses in the Southeast Michigan market, United States, and worldwide.. Overall, during the lengthy recession, the general business environment had an adverse effect on our business. There have been recent improvements in general economic conditions in our market, with evidence of stabilizing home prices and a reduction in unemployment levels, however, there can be no assurance that the environment will continue to improve in the near term. Unemployment levels have improved significantly, but housing values remain low in some areas. Consequently, particularly in Michigan, which was one of the most adversely impacted states in the United States by the recent recession, there can be no assurance that the economic conditions will continue to improve. Furthermore, a worsening of economic conditions would likely have adverse effects on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Continued market stress could have a materially adverse effect on the credit quality of the Bank’s loans and, therefore, our financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank previously operated under agreements with its governmental regulators and may be subject to further regulatory enforcement actions.. On July 12, 2010, the Bank agreed to the issuance of a consent order (the “Consent Order”) with the FDIC and the Michigan DIFS Bank & Trust Division requiring, among other things, the achievement of certain minimum regulatory capital levels, the imposition of certain lending restrictions, the enhancement of the credit quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, the increased monitoring by the Board of Directors of the adequacy of the Bank’s allowance for loan and lease losses, and a prohibition on the declaration and payment of any dividends without prior regulatory approval. The Consent Order was terminated by the regulatory agencies effective June 30, 2014.  However, certain informal regulatory requirements and restrictions remained in effect, including requirements to continue to improve credit quality, a restriction prohibiting dividend payments without prior approval from the FDIC and the DIFS, and the maintenance of a specified Tier 1 capital ratio. The informal regulatory requirements were rescinded effective June 23, 2015. However, any failure to maintain acceptable asset quality, reserves, and capital levels may result in resumption of adverse regulatory actions.. Our business is subject to credit risk and the impact of nonperforming loans.. We face the risk that loan losses, including unanticipated loan losses due to changes in loan portfolios, fraud and economic factors, could require additional increases in the allowance for loan losses. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would cause our net income to decline and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Making loans is an essential element of our business, and there is a risk that customer loans will not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe duration of the loan;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcredit risks of each particular borrower;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in unemployment, economic and industry conditions; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tin the case of a collateralized loan, the potential inadequacy of the value of the collateral in the event of default, such as has resulted from the deterioration in commercial and residential real estate values.. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate.. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential inherent losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors including, among others, the ongoing review and grading of the loan portfolio, consideration of our past loan loss experience as well as that of the banking industry, trends in past due and nonperforming loans, risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans, existing economic conditions, the fair value of underlying collateral, the size and diversity of individual credits, and other qualitative and quantitative factors which could affect probable credit losses. We determine the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering these factors and by using estimates related to the amount and timing of expected future cash flows on impaired loans, estimated losses on pools of homogeneous loans based on our historical loss experience with additional qualitative factors for various issues, and allocation of specific reserves for special situations that are unique to the measurement period with consideration of current economic trends and conditions, all of which are susceptible to significant change. As an integral part of their examination process, various federal and state regulatory agencies also review the allowance for loan losses. These agencies may require that certain loan balances be classified differently or charged off when their credit evaluations differ from those of management, based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examination. Although we believe the level of the allowance for loan losses is appropriate as recorded in the consolidated financial statements, because current economic conditions are uncertain and future events are inherently difficult to predict, the anticipated amount of estimated loan losses, and therefore the adequacy of the allowance, could change significantly. Management is of the opinion that the Allowance for Loan Losses of $7,666,000 as of December 31, 2017 was adequate.. Our loan portfolio is collateralized predominantly by real estate.. A substantial portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is sensitive to real estate values. The declines in the market value of real estate that occurred during the most recent national and regional decline during the 2008 – 2010 timeframe resulted in significant increases in delinquencies and losses on certain segments of our portfolio. While the real estate market has stabilized and is no longer experiencing the rapid decreases in value and increases in inventory of foreclosed properties that occurred during 2008 – 2010 timeframe, there remain substantial risks associated with real estate collateral values, particularly in the Bank’s primary market in Southeast Michigan. As of December 31, 2017, more than 75% of the Bank’s loan portfolio was secured by real estate.. We are subject to interest rate risk.. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon the Bank’s net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on interest earning assets such as loans and securities and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic and market conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Bank receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect the Bank’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the fair values of the Bank’s financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate or decrease at a slower rate than the interest rates received on loans and investments, the Bank’s net interest income, and therefore its and our earnings, could be adversely affected.. 16. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Bank’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in market interest rates or in the term structure of interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s, and our, financial condition and results of operations. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in this document for further discussion related to the Bank’s management of interest rate risk.. Real estate market volatility and future changes in disposition strategies could result in net proceeds that differ significantly from other real estate owned (“OREO”) fair value appraisals.. The Bank’s OREO portfolio consists of properties that it obtained through foreclosure or other collection actions in satisfaction of loans. OREO properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loans for which the properties served as collateral or estimated fair value, less estimated selling costs. Generally, in determining fair value, an orderly disposition of the property is assumed, except where a different disposition strategy is expected. Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of OREO property, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current is significantly shortened during periods of market volatility. While the real estate market has stabilized and is no longer experiencing the rapid decreases in value and increases in inventory of foreclosed properties that occurred during 2008 through 2010, there remain substantial risks associated with real estate collateral values, particularly in Southeast Michigan.. In response to market conditions and other economic factors, the Bank may utilize alternative sale strategies other than orderly dispositions as part of its OREO disposition strategy, such as immediate liquidation sales. In this event, as a result of the significant judgments required in estimating fair value and the variables involved in different methods of disposition, the net proceeds realized from such sales transactions could differ significantly from estimates used to determine the fair value of the Bank’s OREO properties. As of December 31, 2017, the Bank’s OREO portfolio was valued at $1.4 million.. We face the risk of cyber-attack to our computer systems.. Our computer systems, software and networks have been and will continue to be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber-attacks and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. If one or more of these events occurs, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client information, damage to our reputation with our clients and the market, additional costs to us (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties and financial losses, to both us and our clients and customers. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations (such as the lack of availability of our online banking system), as well as the operations of our clients, customers or other third parties. Although we maintain safeguards to protect against these risks, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses in the future that may be material in amount.. 17. The Bank operates in a highly competitive industry.. The Bank faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include regional and national banks within the Bank’s market. The Bank also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan institutions, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory, and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, and insurance. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Bank’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale, and as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Bank can. Increased competition could adversely affect the Bank’s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We and the Bank are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision.. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Bank’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we and the Bank may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial products and services, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur.. Recent economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, resulted in government regulatory agencies placing increased focus on and scrutiny of the financial services industry. The U.S. government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis, by introducing various actions and passing legislation such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Such programs and legislation subject us and other financial institutions to restrictions, oversight and/or costs that may have an impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or the price of our common stock.. New proposals for legislation, regulations, and regulatory reform continue to be introduced that could further substantially change the regulation of the financial services industry. We cannot predict whether any pending or future legislation will be adopted or the substance and impact of any such new legislation. Additional regulation could affect us in a substantial way and could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s and our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The new Basel III Capital Standards may have an adverse effect on us.. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board released its final rules which will implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Under the final rule, minimum requirements increased for both the quality and quantity of capital held by banking organizations. Consistent with the international Basel framework, the rule includes a new minimum ratio of common equity tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 4.5 percent and a common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer of 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets that will apply to all supervised financial institutions. The rule also, among other things, raises the minimum ratio of tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets from 4 percent to 6 percent and includes a minimum leverage ratio of 4 percent for all banking organizations. The new capital rules require us to maintain higher levels of capital, and we were required to begin transitioning to the new rules on January 1, 2015.. 18. If the concentration level of the Bank’s commercial real estate loan portfolio increases, we may be subject to additional regulatory scrutiny.. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under the guidance, a financial institution that is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors, (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital or (ii) total reported loans secured by multifamily and nonfarm non-residential properties, loans for construction, land development, and other land loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital and increased by 50% or more during the prior 36 months. The joint guidance requires heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment, and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. As of December 31, 2017, the Bank did not meet the level of concentration in commercial real estate lending activity that would indicate a need under the regulatory guidance for increased risk assessment.. The Bank is dependent upon outside third parties for processing and handling of its records and data.. The Bank relies on software developed by third party vendors to process various Bank transactions. In some cases, the Bank has contracted with third parties to run its proprietary software on behalf of the Bank. These systems include, but are not limited to, general ledger, payroll, employee benefits, trust record keeping, loan and deposit processing, merchant processing, and securities portfolio management. While the Bank performs a review of controls instituted by the vendors over these programs in accordance with industry standards and performs its own testing of user controls, the Bank must rely on the continued maintenance of these controls by the outside parties, including safeguards over the security of customer data. In addition, the Bank maintains backups of key processing output daily in the event of a failure on the part of any of these systems. Nonetheless, the Bank may incur a temporary disruption in its ability to conduct its business or process its transactions, or incur damage to its reputation if the third party vendor fails to adequately maintain internal controls or institute necessary changes to systems. Such disruption or breach of security may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank continually encounters technological change.. The banking and financial services industry continually undergoes technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to serving customers better, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Bank’s future success will depend, in part, on its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that enhance customer convenience and that create additional efficiencies in the Bank’s operations. Many of the Bank’s competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements, and the Bank may not effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or do so as quickly, which could reduce its ability to effectively compete. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank is subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility and other legal risks.. From time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Bank’s performance of fiduciary responsibilities. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Bank and its products and services as well as customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Consumers and businesses may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions.. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks at one or both ends of the transaction. For example, consumers can now pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. This could result in the loss of fee income as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s business, and in turn, our results of operations and financial condition.. Financial services companies depend upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Bank may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Bank may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to risks arising from potential increases in FDIC insurance premiums.. The FDIC maintains a deposit insurance fund to resolve the cost of bank failures. The FDIC’s deposit insurance fund is funded by fees assessed on insured depository institutions including us. Future deposit premiums paid by us depend on the level of the deposit insurance fund and the magnitude and cost of future bank failures. As a consequence, we may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the event market developments significantly deplete the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits.. We are subject to changes in federal and state tax laws and changes in interpretation of existing laws.. Our financial performance is impacted by federal and state tax laws. Given the current economic and political environment, and ongoing state budgetary pressures, the enactment of new federal or state tax legislation may occur. The enactment of such legislation, or changes in the interpretation of existing law, including provisions impacting tax rates, apportionment, consolidation or combination, income, expenses, and credits, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to changes in accounting principles, policies, or guidelines.. Our financial performance is impacted by accounting principles, policies, and guidelines. Changes in these are continuously occurring and, given the current economic environment, more drastic changes may occur. The implementation of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 20. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. Our successful operation will be greatly influenced by our ability to retain the services of our existing senior management and to attract and retain qualified additional senior and middle management. The unexpected loss of the services of any of our key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. We are a bank holding company and our sources of funds are limited.. We are a bank holding company, and our operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to our shareholders is derived primarily from dividends received from the Bank. Our ability to receive dividends or loans from the Bank is restricted. Dividend payments by the Bank to us in the future will require generation of future earnings by the Bank and could require regulatory approval if the proposed dividend is in excess of prescribed guidelines. Further, our right to participate in the assets of the Bank upon its liquidation, reorganization, or otherwise will be subject to the claims of the Bank’s creditors, including depositors, which will take priority.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact the Bank’s business.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Bank’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Bank’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, reduce the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Bank to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors, and employees.. Threats to the Bank’s reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. The Bank has policies and procedures in place that seek to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct. Nonetheless, negative publicity may arise regarding the Bank’s business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, and could result in the loss of customers, investors, and employees; costly litigation; a decline in revenues; and increased governmental regulation.. We may not be able to acquire other financial institutions or successfully integrate acquired institutions.. Our growth strategy includes acquiring other financial institutions. The market for acquisitions is highly competitive and we may not be able to find satisfactory acquisition targets that fit our strategy or obtain necessary regulator or shareholder approvals. Additionally, any future acquisitions may not produce the revenue, earnings, or operational synergies that we anticipated."                                    
