[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. 5. In evaluating Macy's, the risks described below and the matters described in \"Forward-Looking Statements\" should be considered carefully. Such risks and matters are numerous and diverse, may be experienced continuously or intermittently, and may vary in intensity and effect. Any of such risks and matters, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as on the attractiveness and value of an investment in Macy's securities.. Strategic, Operational and Competitive Risks. Macy's strategic initiatives may not be successful, which could negatively affect our profitability and growth.. We are pursuing strategic initiatives to achieve our objective of accelerating profitable growth in our stores and our digital operations. This includes the adoption of new technologies, merchandising strategies and customer service initiatives all designed to improve the shopping experience.  Our ability to achieve profitable growth is subject to the successful implementation of our strategic plans.  If these investments or initiatives do not perform as expected or create implementation or operational difficulties, we may incur impairment charges and our profitability and growth could suffer.. Our sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending.. The fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. Our sales and operating results depend in part on our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. We develop new retail concepts and continuously adjust our industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. Any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. Our sales are significantly affected by discretionary spending by consumers. Consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt and consumer behaviors towards incurring and paying debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods, the strength of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies and the effects of the weather or natural disasters. Any decline in discretionary spending by consumers could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. As we rely on the ability of our physical retail locations to remain relevant, providing desirable and sought-out shopping experiences is paramount to our financial success.  Changes in consumer shopping habits, financial difficulties at other anchor tenants, significant mall vacancy issues, mall violence and new mall developments could each adversely impact the traffic at current retail locations and lead to a decline in our financial condition or performance.. We may not be able to successfully execute our real estate strategy.. We continue to explore opportunities to monetize our real estate portfolio, including sales of stores as well as non-store real estate such as warehouses, outparcels and parking garages. We also continue to evaluate our real estate portfolio to identify opportunities where the redevelopment value of our real estate exceeds the value of non-strategic operating locations.  This strategy is multi-pronged and may include transactions, strategic alliances or other arrangements with mall developers or unrelated third-parties.  Due to the cyclical nature of real estate markets, the performance of our real estate strategy is inherently volatile and could have a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition.. Macy's revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of our business.. Our business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. A disproportionate amount of our revenues fall in the fourth quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. We incur significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of November and December in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees.. We depend on our ability to attract and retain quality employees.. Our business is dependent upon attracting and retaining quality employees. Macy's has a large number of employees, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Macy's ability to meet our labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. In addition, as a large and complex enterprise operating in a highly competitive and challenging business environment, Macy's is highly dependent upon management personnel to develop and effectively execute successful business strategies and tactics.  Any. 6. circumstances that adversely impact our ability to attract, train, develop and retain quality employees throughout the organization could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. Macy's depends on the success of advertising and marketing programs.. Our business depends on effective marketing and high customer traffic. Macy's has many initiatives in this area, and we often change advertising and marketing programs. There can be no assurance as to our continued ability to effectively execute our advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. If cash flows from our private label credit card decrease, our financial and operational results may be negatively impacted.. We sold most of our credit accounts and related receivables to Citibank.  Following the sale, we share in the economic performance of the credit card program with Citibank. Deterioration in economic or political conditions could adversely affect the volume of new credit accounts, the amount of credit card program balances and the ability of credit card holders to pay their balances. These conditions could result in Macy's receiving lower payments under the credit card program.. Credit card operations are subject to many federal and state laws that may impose certain requirements and limitations on credit card providers. Citibank and our subsidiary bank, FDS Bank, may be required to comply with regulations that may negatively impact the operation of our private label credit card. In turn, this negative impact may affect our revenue streams derived from the sale of such credit card accounts and negatively impact our financial results.. Gross margins could suffer if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory.. Our profitability depends on our ability to manage inventory levels and respond to shifts in consumer demand patterns. Overestimating customer demand for merchandise will likely result in the need to record inventory markdowns and sell excess inventory at clearance prices which would negatively impact our gross margins and operating results.  Underestimating customer demand for merchandise can lead to inventory shortages, missed sales opportunities and negative customer experiences.. Our defined benefit plan funding requirements or plan settlement expense could impact our financial results and cash flow.. Significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and benefit payments could affect the funded status of our plans and could increase future funding requirements of the plans. A significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations.. As of February 3, 2018, we had unrecognized actuarial losses of $992 million for the funded defined benefit pension plan (the \"Pension Plan\") and $244 million for the unfunded defined benefit supplementary retirement plan (the \"SERP\"). These plans allow eligible retiring employees to receive lump sum distributions of benefits earned.  Under applicable accounting rules, if annual lump sum distributions exceed an actuarially determined threshold of the total of the annual service and interest costs, we would be required to recognize in the current period of operations a settlement expense of a portion of the unrecognized actuarial loss and could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. Increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact our financial results and cash flow.. Our expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. Unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could negatively affect our financial results and cash flow. Healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform have resulted and could continue to result in significant changes to the U.S. healthcare system. Due to uncertainty regarding legislative or regulatory changes, we are not able to fully determine the impact that future healthcare reform will have on our company-sponsored medical plans.. If our company's reputation and brand are not maintained at a high level, our operations and financial results may suffer.. We believe our reputation and brand are partially based on the perception that we act equitably and honestly in dealing with our customers, employees, business partners and shareholders. Our reputation and brand may be deteriorated by any incident that erodes the trust or confidence of our customers or the general public, particularly if the incident results in significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. In addition, information concerning us, whether or not true, may be instantly and easily posted on social media platforms at any time, which information may be adverse to our reputation or brand. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction.  If our reputation or. 7. brand is damaged, our customers may refuse to continue shopping with us, potential employees may be unwilling to work for us, business partners may be discouraged from seeking future business dealings with us and, as a result, our operations and financial results may suffer.. Macy's faces significant competition in the retail industry and we depend on our ability to differentiate Macy's in retail's ever-changing environment.. We conduct our retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. Although Macy's is one of the nation's largest retailers, we have numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including department stores, specialty stores, general merchandise stores, off-price and discount stores, manufacturers' outlets, online retailers, catalogs and television shopping, among others. Competition may intensify as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances. Competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. Any failure by us to compete effectively could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. As consumers continue to migrate online, we face pressures to not only compete from a price perspective with our competitors, some of whom sell the same products, but also to differentiate Macy's to stay relevant in retail's ever-changing industry.  We continue to significantly invest in our omnichannel capabilities in order to provide a seamless shopping experience to our customers between our brick and mortar locations and our online and mobile environments.  Insufficient, untimely or misguided investments in this area could significantly impact our profitability and growth and affect our ability to attract new customers, as well as maintain our existing ones.. In addition, declining customer store traffic and migration of sales from brick and mortar stores to digital platforms could lead to store closures, restructuring and other costs that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.. Our sales and operating results could be adversely affected by product safety concerns.. If Macy's merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or consumers' expectations regarding safety, we could experience decreased sales, increased costs and/or be exposed to legal and reputational risk. Events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose Macy's to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. Reputational damage caused by real or perceived product safety concerns could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. Technology and Data Security Risks. A material disruption in our computer systems could adversely affect our business or results of operations.. We rely extensively on our computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attack or other security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by our employees. If our computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, including a material disruption in our ability to authorize and process transactions at our stores or on our online systems, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations. Any material interruption in our computer systems could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. If our technology-based e-commerce systems do not function properly, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Customers are increasingly using computers, tablets and smart phones to shop online and to do price and comparison shopping.  We strive to anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations and are focused on building a seamless shopping experience across our omnichannel business.  Any failure to provide user-friendly, secure e-commerce platforms that offer a variety of merchandise at competitive prices with low cost and quick delivery options that meet customers' expectations could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of e-commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers and have a material adverse impact on the growth of our business and our operating results.. A breach of information technology systems could adversely affect our reputation, business partner and customer relationships, operations and result in high costs.. Through our sales, marketing activities, and use of third-party information, we collect and store certain non-public personal information that customers provide to purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on websites, or otherwise communicate to us. This may include phone numbers, driver license numbers, contact preferences, personal information stored on electronic devices, and payment information, including credit and debit card data. We. 8. gather and retain information about employees in the normal course of business. We may share information about such persons with vendors that assist with certain aspects of our business. In addition, our online operations depend upon the transmission of confidential information over the Internet, such as information permitting cashless payments.. We employ safeguards for the protection of this information and have made significant investments to secure access to our information technology network.  For instance, we have implemented authentication protocols, installed firewalls and anti-virus/anti-malware software, conducted continuous risk assessments, and established data security breach preparedness and response plans.  We also employ encryption and other methods to protect our data, promote security awareness with our associates and work with business partners in an effort to create secure and compliant systems.. However, these protections may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, burglaries, cyberattack, errors by employees or employees of third-party vendors, or contractors, misappropriation of data by employees, vendors or unaffiliated third-parties, or other irregularities that may result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to company data.. Retail data frequently targeted by cybercriminals is consumer credit card data, personally identifiable information, including social security numbers, and health care information.  For retailers, point of sale and e-commerce websites are often attacked through compromised credentials, including those obtained through phishing, vishing and credential stuffing. Other methods of attack include advanced malware, the exploitation of software and operating vulnerabilities, and physical device tampering/skimming at card reader units and we believe these attack methods will continue to evolve.. Despite instituting controls for the protection of such information, no commercial or government entity can be entirely free of vulnerability to attack or compromise given that the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service change frequently. During the normal course of business, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience attempts to compromise our information systems. Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception to employees, contractors, vendors and temporary staff.  We may be unable to protect the integrity of our systems or company data. An alleged or actual unauthorized access or unauthorized disclosure of non-public personal information could:. • materially damage our reputation and brand, negatively affect customer satisfaction and loyalty, expose us to individual claims or consumer class actions, administrative, civil or criminal investigations or actions, and infringe on proprietary information; and. • cause us to incur substantial costs, including costs associated with remediation of information technology systems, customer protection costs and incentive payments for the maintenance of business relationships, litigation costs, lost revenues resulting from negative changes in consumer shopping patterns, unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack. While we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be unavailable or insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber risk.. Supply Chain and Third Party Risks. Macy's depends upon designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise, goods and services. Our business could be affected by disruptions in, or other legal, regulatory, political or economic issues associated with, our supply network.. Our relationships with established and emerging designers have been a significant contributor to Macy's past success. Our ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. Our procurement of goods and services from outside the United States is subject to risks associated with political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade.  We source the majority of our merchandise from manufacturers located outside of the U.S., primarily Asia, and any major changes in tax policy or trade relations, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise or the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported goods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity.  In addition, the procurement of all our goods and services are subject to the effects of price increases which we may or may not be able to pass through to our customers. All of these factors may affect our ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond our control and could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Disruption of global sourcing activities and Macy's own brands' quality concerns could negatively impact brand reputation and earnings.. 9. Economic and civil unrest in areas of the world where we source products, as well as shipping and dockage issues, could adversely impact the availability or cost of our products, or both.  Most of Macy's goods imported to the U.S. arrive from Asia through ports located on the U.S. west coast and are subject to potential disruption due to labor unrest, security issues or natural disasters affecting any or all of these ports.  In addition, in recent years, we have substantially increased the number and types of merchandise that are sold under Macy's proprietary brands.  While we have focused on the quality of our proprietary branded products, we rely on third-parties to manufacture these products.  Such third-party manufacturers may prove to be unreliable, the quality of our globally sourced products may vary from expectations and standards, the products may not meet applicable regulatory requirements which may require us to recall these products, or the products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of other third-parties.  As we seek indemnities from manufacturers of these products, the uncertainty of recovering on such indemnity and the lack of understanding of U.S. product liability laws in certain foreign jurisdictions make it more likely that we may have to respond to claims or complaints from customers.. Parties with whom Macy's does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform on their obligations to us.. Macy's is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including, without limitation, vendors, suppliers, service providers, lenders and participants in joint ventures, strategic alliances and other joint commercial relationships, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to Macy's. In some cases, we depend upon such third parties to provide essential leaseholds, products, services or other benefits, including with respect to store and distribution center locations, merchandise, advertising, software development and support, logistics, other agreements for goods and services in order to operate our business in the ordinary course, extensions of credit, credit card accounts and related receivables, and other vital matters. Current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risks to Macy's associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. If any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits with respect to our contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to us, or otherwise impaired. We may be unable to arrange for alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as existing contracts, transactions or business relationships. Our inability to do so could negatively affect our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.. Global, Legal and External Risks. Macy's business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other related risks.. Unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect our business and results of operations. For example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, consumer debt payment behaviors, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, energy prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could negatively affect our business and results of operations. In addition, unstable political conditions, civil unrest, terrorist activities and armed conflicts may disrupt commerce and could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. Our effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors, including changes in federal or state tax law, interpretation of existing laws and the ability to defend and support the tax positions taken on historical tax returns.  Certain changes in any of these factors could materially impact the effective tax rate and net income.. Our business could be affected by extreme weather conditions, regional or global health pandemics or natural disasters.. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could negatively affect our business and results of operations. For example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could reduce demand for a portion of our inventory and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. In addition, extreme weather conditions could result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in our supply chain and cause staffing shortages in our stores.. Our business and results of operations could also be negatively affected if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity. To halt or delay the spread of disease, local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings or customers might avoid public places, such as our stores. A. 10. regional or global health pandemic might also result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in our supply chain and cause staffing shortages in our stores.. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could damage or destroy our facilities or make it difficult for customers to travel to our stores, thereby negatively affecting our business and results of operations.. Litigation, legislation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, inquiries and initiatives in connection with both our core business operations and our credit card and other ancillary operations (including the Credit Card Act of 2009 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010). Recent and future developments relating to such matters could increase our compliance costs and adversely affect the profitability of our credit card and other operations. We are also subject to anti-bribery, customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. Although we undertake to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without our knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers, distributors or agents, we could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business. Adverse outcomes in current or future litigation could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Financial Risks. Inability to access capital markets could adversely affect our business or financial condition.. Changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict our access to this potential source of future liquidity. A decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to Macy's short and long-term debt may negatively impact our access to the debt capital markets and increase our cost of borrowing. In addition, our bank credit agreements require us to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. Our ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If our results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where we are not in compliance with our debt covenants, and we are unable to obtain a waiver, much of our debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. Our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. We cannot make any assurances that we would be able to obtain such an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all, and our inability to do so could cause the holders of our securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investments in Macy's.. Factors beyond our control could affect Macy's stock price.. Macy's stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors may include:. • general economic, stock, credit and real estate market conditions;. • risks relating to Macy's business and industry, including those discussed above;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors;. • variations in our quarterly results of operations;. • future sales or purchases of Macy's Common Stock; and. • investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with Macy's Common Stock relative to other investment alternatives.. We may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. If the analysts that regularly follow Macy's stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, Macy's stock price could decline. Also, sales of a substantial number of shares of Macy's Common Stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of Macy's Common Stock.. 11"
