[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. The nature of our business activities subjects us to a wide variety of hazards and risks. The following is a summary of the material risks relating to our business activities that we have identified. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business could be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that we currently believe to be immaterial. If any of these risks actually occur, they could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations and impair our ability to implement our business plans or complete development projects as scheduled.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our cash distributions are not guaranteed. The cash from operations that we generate could decrease or fail to meet expectations, either of which could reduce our ability to pay quarterly cash distributions.. The amount of cash we can distribute to our limited partners principally depends upon the cash we generate from our operations, as well as cash reserves established by our general partner. Our distributable cash flow does not depend solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we could pay cash distributions during periods when we record net losses and could be unable to pay cash distributions during periods when we record net income. In addition, the amount of cash we generate from operations is affected by numerous factors. 18. beyond our control, fluctuates from quarter to quarter and may change over time. Significant or sustained reductions in the cash generated by our operations would reduce our ability to pay quarterly distributions. Any failure to pay distributions at expected levels could result in a loss of investor confidence and a decrease in the value of our unit price.. Our financial results depend on the demand for the petroleum products that we transport, store and distribute, among other factors. Unfavorable economic conditions, technological changes, regulatory developments or other factors could result in lower demand for these products for a sustained period of time.. Any sustained decrease in demand for petroleum products in the markets served by our pipelines or terminals could result in a significant reduction in the volume of products that we transport, store or distribute, and thereby reduce our cash flow and our ability to pay cash distributions. Global economic conditions have from time to time resulted in reduced demand for the products transported and stored by our pipelines and terminals and consequently for the services that we provide. Our financial results may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within certain regions, or by supply or demand shifts between regions. If economic and market conditions remain uncertain or adverse conditions persist for an extended period, we could experience material impacts to our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Other factors that could lead to a decrease in demand for the petroleum products we transport, store and distribute include:. • an increase in the use of alternative fuel sources, such as ethanol, biodiesel, natural gas, fuel cells, solar, electric and battery-powered engines.  Several countries and some automobile manufacturers have announced plans to significantly reduce or eliminate the use of fossil-fuel powered vehicles, and significant increases in the production of electric vehicles is widely expected.  In addition, current U.S. laws require a significant increase in the quantity of ethanol and biodiesel used in transportation fuels each year until 2022. Increases in the use of such alternative fuels could have a material impact on the volume of petroleum-based fuels transported on our pipelines or distributed through our terminals;. • an increase in transportation fuel economy, whether as a result of a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles, technological advances by manufacturers or federal or state regulations. For example, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the EPA finalized standards for passenger cars and light trucks manufactured in model years beginning in 2017 that will require significant increases in fuel efficiency. These standards are intended to reduce demand for petroleum products, and could reduce demand for our services;. • changes in population or changes in consumer preferences, rates of automobile ownership, or driving patterns in the markets we serve;. • an increase or decrease in the market prices of petroleum products, which may reduce supply or demand. Petroleum product prices have been volatile in recent years and that volatility may continue in ways that we are unable to predict or control; and. • higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase the cost of the products we handle.. 19. A decrease in crude oil production in the basins served by our crude oil pipelines could reduce our transportation revenues, which could adversely impact our results of operations and the amount of cash we generate.. Numerous factors can cause reductions in crude oil production in the regions served by our pipelines, including, among other factors, lower overall crude oil prices, regional price or quality differences, higher costs of crude oil production, weather or other natural causes, adverse regulatory or legal developments, disruptions in financial or credit markets that inhibit the ability of our customers to finance the costs of production, or lower overall demand for crude oil and the products derived from crude oil. Crude oil prices have historically exhibited significant volatility, and are influenced by, among other factors, worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil, political and economic developments in often-volatile producing regions, actions taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, technological developments, government regulations and taxes, policies regarding the importing and exporting of crude oil and conditions in global financial markets.. We are unable to predict future prices of crude oil or what impact the crude price environment will have on future production overall, and specifically on production in the basins we serve. While the transportation revenues on our crude oil pipelines are in some cases supported by long-term contracts, lower production in the regions served by our pipelines could result in lower shipments of uncommitted volumes, or could cause us to be unable to renew our contracts at existing volumes or rates.  Any sustained decrease in the production of crude oil in the regions served by our crude oil pipelines could result in a significant reduction in the volume of products that we transport or the rates we are able to charge for such transportation services or both, thereby reducing our cash flow and our ability to pay cash distributions.. We depend on producers, gatherers, refineries and petroleum pipelines owned and operated by others to supply our assets.. We depend on crude oil production and on connections with gathering systems, refineries and petroleum pipelines owned and operated by third parties to supply our assets. We cannot control or predict the amount of crude oil that will be delivered to us by the gathering systems and pipelines that supply our crude oil assets, nor can we control or predict the output of refineries that supply our refined products pipelines and terminals. Changes in the quality or quantity of this crude oil production, outages at these refineries or reduced or interrupted throughput on these gathering systems or pipelines due to weather-related or other natural causes, competitive forces, testing, line repair, damage, reduced operating pressures or other causes could reduce shipments on our pipelines or result in our being unable to receive products at or deliver products from our terminals or receive products for processing at our condensate splitter, any of which could materially adversely affect our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions.. The closure of refineries that supply or are supplied by our refined products and crude oil pipelines could result in material disruptions or reductions in the volumes we transport and store and in the amount of cash we generate.. Refineries that supply or are supplied by our facilities are subject to regulatory developments, including but not limited to regulations regarding fuel specifications, plant emissions and safety and security requirements that could significantly increase the cost of their operations and reduce their operating margins. For example, costs to comply with renewable fuel standards have negatively impacted the profitability of numerous independent refineries, and were cited as the primary cause of a bankruptcy filing of a refining company in January 2018. In addition, the profitability of the refineries that supply our facilities is subject to regional and global supply and demand dynamics that are difficult to predict. A period of sustained weak demand or increased cost of supply could make refining uneconomic for some refineries, including those located along our refined products and crude oil pipelines. The closure of a refinery that delivers product to or receives crude from our pipelines could reduce the volumes we transport and the amount of cash we generate. Further, the closure of these or other refineries could result in our customers electing to store and distribute petroleum products through their proprietary terminals, which could result in a reduction of our storage volumes.. 20. A decrease in contract renewals or renewals at substantially lower rates or shorter terms could cause our revenue to decline or be more volatile, which could adversely impact our results of operations and the amount of cash we generate and our ability to make cash distributions.. A significant portion of the revenue we earn from providing petroleum products transportation and storage services is provided for in multi-year contracts negotiated with our customers. Many of those contracts require our customers to pay for our services regardless of market conditions during the contract period. Changing market conditions, including changes in petroleum product supply or demand patterns, competitive factors, forward-price structure, financial market conditions, regulations, accounting rules or other factors could cause our customers to be unwilling to renew their storage contracts with us when those contracts terminate, or make them willing to renew only at lower rates or for shorter contract periods.  For example, the existing contracts on our Longhorn crude oil pipeline expire in late 2018, and we currently expect to receive rates below the existing rates following the expiration of the contract term. Failure by our customers to renew any of their contracts with us on terms and at rates substantially similar to our existing contracts could result in lower utilization of our assets or cause our revenues to decline or be more volatile, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and our ability to make cash distributions.. Competition could lead to lower levels of profits and reduce the amount of cash we generate.. We compete with other existing pipelines and terminals that provide similar services in the same markets as our assets. In addition, our competitors could construct new assets or redeploy existing assets in a manner that would result in more intense competition in the markets we serve. For example, storage facilities previously used to support refineries or other facilities have in some cases been redeployed to provide services that compete with our own services.  Similarly, in some cases pipelines previously used to provide services that did not compete with us have been repurposed to provide services that directly compete with certain of our services.. We compete with other transportation, storage and distribution alternatives on the basis of many factors, including but not limited to rates, service levels and offerings, geographic location, connectivity and reliability. Our customers could utilize the assets and services of our competitors instead of our assets and services, or we could be required to lower our prices or increase our costs to retain our customers.. Many of the competitors of our crude oil segment conduct extensive crude oil gathering and marketing activities that we do not currently participate in and that could enhance their competitive position.  We filed a petition for declaratory order in November 2016 requesting a FERC determination that our proposal to establish a crude oil marketing affiliate and engage in certain marketing activities would be in compliance with the Interstate Commerce Act.  In late 2017, the FERC denied our request, and we and other industry participants have subsequently submitted requests for further clarification or rehearing from the FERC.  We are unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings.  If we are ultimately unable to offer services and conduct activities similar to those offered and conducted by our competitors, our competitive position could be negatively impacted.. Any of these or other competitive forces could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions.. Our business is subject to the risk of a capacity overbuild in some of the markets in which we operate.. We and our joint ventures have made and continue to make significant investments in new energy infrastructure to meet market demand, as have several of our competitors. For example, we have invested significantly in pipelines to deliver crude oil from the Permian Basin in West Texas to markets along the U.S. Gulf Coast and from the DJ Basin in Colorado to Cushing, Oklahoma. We have also constructed a condensate splitter in Corpus Christi, Texas, and are in the process of constructing a new marine terminal along the Houston Ship Channel in Pasadena, Texas. Similar investments have been made and additional investments may be made in the future by our competitors or by new entrants to the markets we serve. The success of these and similar projects largely relies on the realization of anticipated market demand, and these projects typically require significant development periods, during which time demand for such infrastructure may change, or additional investments by competitors. 21. may be made. If infrastructure investments by us or others in the markets we serve result in capacity that exceeds the demand in those markets, our facilities could be underutilized and we could be forced to reduce the rates we charge for our services, which could materially affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions.. Mergers among our customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on our pipelines or products stored in or distributed through our terminals, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate.. Mergers among our existing customers and our competitors could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing systems instead of ours in those markets where our systems compete. As a result, we could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenue from these customers, and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenue. As a significant portion of our operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result not only in less revenue, but also a decline in cash flow of a similar magnitude, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions.. Reduced volatility in energy prices or new government regulations could discourage our storage customers from holding positions in petroleum products, which could adversely affect the demand for our storage services.. We have constructed and continue to build new storage tanks in response to increased customer demand for storage. Many of our competitors have also built new storage facilities. The demand for new storage has resulted in part from our customers' desire to have the ability to take advantage of profit opportunities created by volatility in the prices of petroleum products. If the prices of petroleum products become relatively stable, or if federal or state regulations are passed that discourage our customers from storing these commodities, demand for our storage services could decrease, in which case we may be unable to identify customers willing to contract for such services or be forced to reduce the rates we charge for our services, either of which could materially reduce the amount of cash we generate.. Fluctuations in prices of petroleum products that we purchase and sell could materially affect our results of operations.. We generate product sales revenue from our butane blending and fractionation activities, as well as from the sale of product generated by the operations of our pipelines and terminals. We also maintain product inventory related to these activities. Prices of petroleum products have historically experienced wide fluctuations. Significant fluctuations in market prices of petroleum products could result in losses or lower profits from these activities, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate and our ability to pay cash distributions. Additionally, significant fluctuations in market prices of petroleum products could result in significant unrealized gains or losses on transactions we enter to hedge our exposure to commodity price changes. To the extent these transactions have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes, the associated unrealized gains and losses directly impact our results of operations.. We hedge prices of petroleum products by utilizing physical purchase and sale agreements and exchange-traded futures contracts. These hedging arrangements do not eliminate all price risks, could result in fluctuations in quarterly or annual financial results and could result in material cash obligations that could negatively impact our financial position or our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Further, any non-compliance with our risk management policies could result in significant losses.. We hedge our exposure to price fluctuations for our petroleum products purchase and sale activities by utilizing physical purchase and sale agreements and exchange-traded futures contracts. To the extent these hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or are not designated as hedges under Accounting Standards Codification 815, Derivatives and Hedging, or if they result in material amounts of ineffectiveness, we could experience material fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results of operations. We may be required to post margin in connection with these hedges, which could result in material and unpredictable demands on our liquidity. These contracts may be for the purchase or sale of product in markets for a time frame different from those in which we are attempting to hedge. 22. our exposure, resulting in hedges that do not eliminate all price risks. In addition, our product sales and hedging operations involve the risk of non-compliance with our risk management policies. We cannot assure you that our processes and procedures will detect and prevent all violations of our risk management policies, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. If we incur a material loss related to commodity price risks, including non-compliance with our risk management policies, our quarterly or annual results of operations or cash flows could be negatively impacted, which could have a negative impact on our unit price. Further, our requirement to post material amounts of margin in connection with our hedges could negatively impact our liquidity and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders.. Changes in price levels could negatively impact our revenue, our expenses, or both, which could adversely affect our results from operations, our liquidity and our ability to pay cash distributions.. The operation of our assets and the implementation of our growth strategy require significant expenditures for labor, materials, property, equipment and services. Increases in the cost of these items could materially increase our expenses or capital costs. We may not be able to pass these increased costs on to our customers in the form of higher fees for our services.. We use the FERC's PPI-based price indexing methodology to establish tariff rates in certain markets served by our pipelines. The FERC's indexing methodology is subject to review every five years and limits a pipeline's rates in such markets each year to a new ceiling level, which is calculated as the previous year's ceiling level multiplied by a percentage. For the five-year period beginning July 1, 2016, the indexing method provides for annual changes equal to the change in the PPI-FG plus 1.23%. This methodology could result in changes in our revenue that do not fully reflect changes in the costs we incur to operate and maintain our pipelines. For example, our costs could increase more quickly or by a greater amount than the PPI-FG index plus 1.23% used by the current FERC methodology. Further, in periods of general price deflation, the ceiling level provided for by the FERC's index methodology could decrease, as it did in 2015, requiring us to reduce our index-based rates, as we did in July 2016, even if the actual costs we incur to operate our assets increase. Changes in price levels that lead to decreases in our revenue or increases in the prices we pay to operate and maintain our assets could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions.. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, the occurrence of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows and our ability to pay cash distributions.. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the transportation and distribution of petroleum products and ammonia, including ruptures, leaks and fires.  In addition, our operations are exposed to potential natural disasters, including hurricanes, tornadoes, storms, floods and earthquakes. For example, in 2017, Hurricane Harvey hit the Texas Gulf Coast, disrupting the partnership's operations located in Houston and Corpus Christi.  This hurricane negatively impacted our results by approximately $20 million.  These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage, and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. Some of our assets are located in or near high consequence areas such as residential and commercial centers or sensitive environments, and the potential damages are even greater in these areas. If a significant accident or event occurs, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows and our ability to pay cash distributions.. Many of our storage tanks and significant portions of our pipeline system have been in service for several decades.. Our pipeline and storage assets are generally long-lived assets. As a result, some of our assets have been in service for several decades. The age and condition of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures and an increased risk of product releases and associated costs and liabilities. Any significant increase in these expenditures, costs or liabilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions.. 23. We do not own all of the property on which our pipelines and facilities are located, and we rely on securing and retaining adequate rights-of-way and permits in order to operate our existing assets and complete growth projects.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located. As such, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. In those instances, in which we do not own the land on which our facilities are located, we obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines and gathering systems on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. In addition, some of our facilities cross Native American lands pursuant to rights-of-way of limited terms. We may not have the right of eminent domain over land owned by Native American tribes or other government entities and our ability to secure required permits and rights-of-way or otherwise proceed with construction of our expansion projects could encounter opposition or sabotage from activists, who may attempt to delay pipeline construction through protests and other means, as recently occurred in North Dakota in relation to the Dakota Access Pipeline (\"DAPL\").  The loss of these rights, through our inability to acquire or renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. Our assets may not be adequately insured and we could experience losses that exceed our insurance coverage.. We are not fully insured against all hazards or operational risks related to our businesses, and the insurance we carry requires that we meet certain deductibles before we can collect for any losses we sustain. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows and our ability to pay cash distributions.. We may encounter increased costs related to and decreases in the availability of insurance.. Premiums and deductibles for our insurance policies could escalate as a result of market conditions or losses experienced by us or by other companies. In some instances, insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Increases in the cost of insurance or the inability to obtain insurance at rates that we consider commercially reasonable could materially affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows and our ability to pay cash distributions.. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business.. The U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, and the nation's pipeline and terminal infrastructure in particular, may be targets of terrorist organizations. The threat of terrorist attacks subjects our operations to increased risks. Any terrorist attack on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, any terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions.. Cyber-attacks, or other information security breaches, that circumvent security measures taken by us or others with whom we conduct business or share information could result in increased costs or other damage to our business.. We rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit, and store electronic information, including information we use to safely operate our assets. In addition, we rely on third-party systems, including for example the electric grid and cloud-based software services, which could also be subject to security breaches or cyber attacks, and the failure of which could have a significant adverse effect on the operation of our assets. We and our third-party providers face cybersecurity and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, which could include threats to our control systems and safety systems that operate our pipelines, plants and assets. We could face unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from hackers, whether state-sponsored groups, \"hacktivists,\" or private individuals. The age, operating. 24. systems, or condition of our current information technology infrastructure and software assets and our ability to maintain and upgrade such assets could affect our ability to resist cybersecurity threats. We could also face attempts to gain access to information related to our assets through attempts to obtain unauthorized access by targeting acts of deception against individuals with legitimate access to physical locations or information.. Breaches in our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities, or other disruptions including those arising from theft, vandalism, fraud, or unethical conduct, could result in damage to our assets, unnecessary waste, safety incidents, damage to people, property and the environment, reputational damage, potential liability, or the loss of contracts, and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions.. Failure of critical information technology systems may impact our ability to operate our assets or manage our businesses, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for distribution.. We utilize information technology systems to operate our assets and manage our businesses. Some of these systems are proprietary systems that require specialized programming capabilities, while others are based upon or reside on technology that has been in service for many years. Failures of these systems could result in a breach of critical operational or financial controls and lead to a disruption of our operations, commercial activities or financial processes. Such failures could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flow, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions.. Our expansion projects may not immediately produce operating cash flows and may exceed our cost estimates or experience delays.. We have undertaken numerous large expansion projects that have required and will continue to require us to make significant capital investments. We intend to finance those projects primarily with new borrowings, and we will incur financing costs during the planning and construction phases of these projects; however, the operating cash flows we expect these projects to generate will not materialize until sometime after the projects are completed, if at all. As a result, our leverage ratio relative to our earnings may increase during the period prior to the generation of those operating cash flows. In addition, the amount of time and investment necessary to complete these projects could materially exceed the estimates we used when determining whether to undertake them. For example, we must. compete with other companies for the materials and construction services required to complete these projects, and competition for these materials or services could result in significant delays or cost overruns.  Similarly, we must secure and retain required permits and rights-of-way, including in some cases through the exercise of the power of eminent domain, in order to complete and operate these projects, and our inability to do so in a timely manner could result in significant delays or cost overruns. Our ability to secure required permits and rights-of-way or otherwise proceed with construction of our expansion projects could encounter opposition from political activists, who may attempt to delay pipeline construction through protests and other means, as has recently occurred in North Dakota in. relation to DAPL.  Further, in many instances, the operations of our expansion projects are subject to the execution by third parties of pipeline connections or other related projects that are beyond our control. Delays or unanticipated costs associated with these third parties in the execution of these related projects could result in delays or cost overruns in the start-up of our own projects. In addition, we run the risk of failing to meet commitments to our customers as a result of project delays, which in some cases could allow our customers to terminate their commitments to us or otherwise negatively impact customer relationships and future financial results. Any cost overruns or unanticipated delays in the completion or commercial development of our expansion projects could reduce the anticipated returns on these projects, which in turn could materially increase our leverage and reduce our liquidity and our ability to pay cash distributions.. Potential future acquisitions and expansions may affect our business by substantially increasing the level of our indebtedness and liabilities, subjecting us to the risk of being unable to effectively integrate the new operations and diluting our limited partner unitholders.. From time to time we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses. We may issue significant amounts of additional equity securities and incur substantial additional indebtedness to finance future acquisitions, and our. 25. capitalization and results of operations may change significantly as a result. Our limited partner unitholders may not have an opportunity to review or evaluate the information and assumptions we use to determine whether to pursue an acquisition. An acquisition that we expect to be accretive could nevertheless reduce our cash from operations if we rely on faulty information, make inaccurate assumptions, assume unidentified liabilities or otherwise improperly value the acquired assets. In addition, any equity securities we issue to finance acquisitions would dilute our existing limited partner unitholders and could reduce our cash flow available for distribution on a per unit basis.. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including but not limited to difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise due to our unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and their markets, challenges in managing or retaining new employees and establishing relationships with and retaining new customers and business partners, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which we have no recourse from the seller.. We compete for acquisitions and new projects with numerous other established energy companies and many other potential investors. Increased competition for acquisitions or growth projects could limit our ability to execute our growth strategy or could result in our executing that strategy on substantially less attractive terms than we have previously experienced, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions.. Failure to generate or complete additional growth projects or make future acquisitions could reduce our ability to increase cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our ability to increase distributions to our unitholders depends to a significant degree on our ability to successfully identify and execute additional growth projects and acquisitions. We face significant uncertainties and competition in the pursuit of such opportunities. For example, decisions regarding new growth projects rely on numerous estimates, including among other factors, predictions of future demand for our services, future supply shifts, crude oil production estimates, commodity price environments, regulatory developments, economic conditions and potential changes in the financial condition of our customers. Our predictions of such factors could cause us to forego certain investments or to lose opportunities to competitors who make investments based on more aggressive predictions or who are generally more tolerant of risk. Valuations of energy infrastructure assets have generally been elevated in recent years, which has made it difficult for us to be successful in our attempts to acquire new assets, as other bidders for those assets have been willing to pay prices and accept terms that did not meet our risk and return criteria. We cannot be certain that our own predictions are more accurate than those of other bidders, and our approach to risk could cause us to miss opportunities that could otherwise have created value for our unitholders.  If we are unable to acquire new assets or develop additional expansion projects, our ability to increase distributions to our unitholders will be reduced.. We do not have the same flexibility as other types of organizations to accumulate cash and retained earnings to protect against illiquidity in the future, and we rely on access to capital to fund acquisitions and growth projects and to refinance existing debt obligations. Unfavorable developments in capital markets could limit our ability to obtain funding or require us to secure funding on terms that could limit our financial flexibility, reduce our liquidity, dilute the interests of our existing unitholders and reduce our cash flows and ability to pay distributions.. Our partnership agreement requires us to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders of all available cash, after taking into account reserves for commitments and contingencies, including capital investments, operating costs and debt service requirements. As a result, we do not accumulate equity in the form of retained earnings in a manner typical of many other forms of organization, including most traditional public corporations. As a result, we are more likely than those organizations to require issuances of additional capital to finance our growth plans, meet unforeseen cash requirements and service our debt.. 26. We regularly consider and pursue growth projects and acquisitions as part of our efforts to increase cash available for distribution to our unitholders. These transactions can be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets and operations. For example, we estimate that we will spend approximately $1.3 billion to complete our current slate of organic growth projects. We generally do not retain sufficient cash flow to finance such projects and acquisitions, and consequently the execution of our growth strategy requires regular access to external sources of capital. Any limitations on our access to capital on satisfactory terms will impair our ability to execute this strategy and could reduce our liquidity and our ability to make cash distributions.. Similarly, we generally do not retain sufficient cash flow to repay our indebtedness when it matures, and we rely on new capital to refinance these obligations. For example, $250 million of our long-term notes will mature in July 2018 and an additional $550 million will mature in 2019. We anticipate refinancing those notes when they mature.. Limitations on our access to capital, including on our ability to issue additional debt and equity, could result from events or causes beyond our control, and could include, among other factors, decreases in our creditworthiness or profitability, significant increases in interest rates, increases in the risk premium generally required by investors or in the premium required specifically for investments in energy-related companies or master limited partnerships, and decreases in the availability of credit or the tightening of terms required by lenders. Any limitations on our ability to refinance these obligations by securing new capital on satisfactory terms could severely limit our liquidity, our financial flexibility or our cash flows, and could result in the dilution of the interests of our existing unitholders.. Increases in interest rates could increase our financing costs, reduce the amount of cash we generate and adversely affect the trading price of our units.. As of December 31, 2017, the face value of our outstanding fixed-rate debt was $4.6 billion. We have a commercial paper program under which we may issue commercial paper notes in an amount up to the available capacity under our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility, and we expect to make additional floating rate borrowings under our commercial paper program or revolving credit facility as needed. As a result, we would have exposure to changes in short-term interest rates. We may also use interest rate derivatives to effectively convert some of our fixed-rate notes to floating-rate debt, thereby increasing our exposure to changes in short-term interest rates. In addition, the execution of our growth strategy and the refinancing of our existing debt could require that we issue additional fixed-rate debt, and consequently we also have potential exposure to changes in long-term interest rates. Rising interest rates could reduce the amount of cash we generate and materially adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to pay cash distributions. Moreover, the trading price of our units is sensitive to changes in interest rates and could be materially adversely affected by any increase in interest rates.. Restrictions contained in our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility.. We are subject to restrictions with respect to our debt that may limit our flexibility in structuring or refinancing existing or future debt and may prevent us from engaging in certain beneficial transactions. These restrictions include, among other provisions, the maintenance of certain financial ratios, as well as limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to grant liens or to repay existing debt without prepayment premiums. These restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash.. The amount and timing of distributions to us from our joint ventures is not within our control, and we may be unable to cause our joint ventures to take or refrain from taking certain actions that may be in our best interest. In addition, as construction manager and operator of the majority of our joint ventures, we are exposed to additional risk and liability in connection with our responsibilities in those capacities.. As of December 31, 2017, we were engaged in eight joint ventures in which we share control with other entities according to the relevant joint venture agreements. Those agreements provide that the respective joint venture management committees, including our representatives along with the representatives of the other owners of those joint ventures, determine the amount and timing of distributions. Our joint ventures may establish separate. 27. financing arrangements that contain restrictive covenants that may limit or restrict the joint venture's ability to make cash distributions to us under certain circumstances. Any inability to generate cash or restrictions on cash distributions we receive from our joint ventures could impair our results of operations, cash flows and our ability to pay cash distributions.. In the case of Double Eagle and Seabrook, an affiliate of our joint venture co-owner serves as operator, and consequently we rely on affiliates of our joint venture co-owner for many of the management functions of those joint ventures. Without the cooperation of the other owners of those joint ventures, we may not be able to cause our joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions or inactions may be in the best interest of us or the particular joint venture. With respect to our other joint ventures, we are the construction manager and operator, which exposes us to additional risk and liability in connection with our responsibilities in those capacities.. If we are unable to agree with our joint venture co-owners on a significant matter, it could result in delays, litigation or operational impasses that could result in a material adverse effect on that joint venture's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If the matter is significant to us, it could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. If we fail to make a required capital contribution, we could be deemed to be in default under the applicable joint venture agreement. Our joint venture co-owners may be permitted to pursue a variety of remedies, including funding any deficiency resulting from our failure to make such capital contribution, which would result in a dilution of our ownership interest, or, in some cases, our joint venture co-owners may have the option to purchase all of our existing interest in the subject joint venture.. Moreover, subject to certain limitations in the respective joint venture agreements, any joint venture owner may sell or transfer its ownership interest in a joint venture, whether in a transaction involving third parties or the other joint venture owners. Any such transaction could result in our being co-owners with different or additional parties with whom we have not had a previous relationship.. We are exposed to counterparty risk. Nonpayment, commitment termination or nonperformance by our customers, vendors, joint venture co-owners, lenders or derivative counterparties could materially reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, impair our liquidity or otherwise negatively impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows and our ability to pay cash distributions.. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers to whom we extend credit. In addition, we frequently undertake capital expenditures based on commitments from customers from which we expect to realize the expected return on those expenditures, including take-or-pay commitments from our customers, and nonperformance by our customers of those commitments or termination of those commitments resulting from our inability to timely meet our obligations could result in substantial losses to us.  For example, we are constructing a new 135-mile pipeline from East Houston to Hearne, Texas at an estimated cost of $425 million based on a limited number of customer commitments.  Nonperformance by customers who back our capital projects could significantly impact our expected return from those projects.. We have undertaken numerous projects that require cooperation with and performance by joint venture co-owners. For example, Seabrook will be operated by our joint venture co-owner, LBC Tank Terminals, LLC, which also must make capital contributions to the joint venture. Nonperformance by our joint venture co-owners could result in increased costs or delays that could decrease our returns on our joint venture projects.. We utilize third-party vendors to provide various functions, including, for example, certain construction activities, engineering services, facility inspections and operation of certain software systems. Using third parties to provide these functions has the effect of reducing our direct control over the services rendered. The failure of one or more of our third-party providers to deliver the expected services on a timely basis at the prices we expect and as required by contract could result in significant disruptions, costs to our operation, or instances of a contractor's non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows.. 28. We also rely to a significant degree on the banks that lend to us under our revolving credit facility for financial liquidity, and any failure of those banks to perform on their obligations to us could significantly impair our liquidity. Furthermore, nonpayment by the counterparties to our interest rate and commodity derivatives could expose us to additional interest rate or commodity price risk.  Any take-or-pay commitment terminations or substantial increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers, vendors, lenders or derivative counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows and our ability to pay cash distributions.. Losses sustained by any money market mutual fund or other investment vehicle in which we invest our cash or the failure of any bank or financial institution in which we deposit funds could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to pay cash distributions.. We may maintain material balances of cash and cash equivalents for extended periods of time. We typically invest any material amount of cash on hand in cash equivalents such as money market mutual funds. These funds are primarily comprised of highly rated short-term instruments. Significant market volatility and financial distress could cause such investments to lose value or reduce the liquidity of such investments. We may also maintain deposits at a commercial bank in excess of amounts insured by government agencies such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In addition, certain exchange-traded derivatives transactions we enter into in order to hedge commodity-related price exposures frequently require us to make margin deposits with a broker. A failure of our commercial bank or our broker could result in our losing any funds we have deposited. Any losses we sustain on the investments or deposits of our cash could materially adversely affect our financial position and our ability to pay cash distributions.. Rate regulation, challenges by shippers of the rates we charge on our refined products and crude oil pipelines or changes in the jurisdictional characterization of our assets or activities by federal, state or local regulatory agencies may reduce the amount of cash we generate.. The FERC regulates the rates we can charge, and the terms and conditions we can offer, for interstate transportation service on our refined products and crude oil pipelines. State regulatory authorities regulate the rates we can charge, and the terms and conditions we can offer, for intrastate movements on our refined products and crude oil pipelines. The determination of the interstate or intrastate character of shipments on our petroleum products pipelines may change over time, which may change the rates we are allowed to charge for transportation and other related services. Shippers may protest our pipeline tariff filings, and the FERC or state regulatory authorities may investigate tariff rates. Further, other than for rates set under market-based rate authority, the FERC may order refunds of amounts collected under interstate rates that are determined to be in excess of a just and reasonable level when taking into consideration our pipeline system's cost-of-service. State regulatory authorities could take similar measures for intrastate tariffs. In addition, shippers may challenge by complaint the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. The FERC and state regulatory authorities may also investigate tariff rates absent shipper complaint. If existing rates challenged by complaint are determined to be in excess of a just and reasonable level when taking into consideration our pipeline systems' cost-of-service, we could be required to pay refunds to shippers, reduce rates and make other concessions.. The FERC's ratemaking methodologies may limit our ability to set rates based on our actual costs or may delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs. The FERC's primary ratemaking methodology applicable to us is price indexing. We use this methodology to establish our rates in approximately 40% of the markets for our refined products pipeline. The FERC's indexing methodology is subject to review every five years and currently allows a pipeline to change its rates each year to a new ceiling level, which is calculated as the previous year's ceiling level multiplied by a percentage. For the five-year period beginning July 1, 2016, the indexing method provides for annual changes in rates by a percentage equal to the change in the PPI-FG plus 1.23%. When the ceiling level falls, as it did in 2015, we are required to reduce our rates that are subject to the FERC's price indexing methodology.. The FERC and relevant state regulatory authorities allow us to establish rates based on conditions in competitive markets without regard to the FERC's index level or our cost-of-service. We establish market-based rates in approximately 60% of the markets for our refined products pipeline.  The tariffs on most of our crude oil. 29. pipelines are at negotiated rates, but are still ultimately subject to regulation by the FERC or state agencies and subject to protest by shippers.  If we were to lose our market-based rate authority, or if our negotiated rates were determined to be not just and reasonable, we could be required to establish rates on some other basis, such as our cost-of-service, which could reduce our revenues.. In October 2016, the FERC issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking (\"ANOPR\") seeking comments on potential revisions to (1) the Commission's policies for evaluating oil pipeline indexed rate changes; and (2) the reporting requirements for page 700 of FERC Form No. 6, Annual Report of Oil Pipeline Companies. While we are unable to predict the ultimate form of rulemaking, if any, that could follow this advanced notice, the potential revisions discussed in the ANOPR could affect our ability to establish rates in a manner consistent with our past practice, while potentially preventing us from recovering increases in the costs we incur to operate our pipelines and increasing our cost of complying with FERC reporting requirements.. In July 2016, the D.C. Circuit issued a decision in United Airlines Inc. v. FERC that found that FERC had acted arbitrarily and capriciously when it permitted an interstate petroleum products pipeline organized as a limited partnership to include an income tax allowance in its rates. The court remanded the case to the FERC to allow it to have an opportunity to provide a reasoned basis for its decision on income tax allowances for partnership pipelines. We are unable to predict how the FERC will respond to the court's remand. If the FERC were to no longer allow limited partnerships to include income tax allowance in their cost of service, our cost of service would be reduced, which could ultimately impact our tariff rates if we were ever required to adopt a cost-of-service ratemaking methodology.. In November 2017, a shipper protested the rates and terms and conditions of service for expansion capacity on the BridgeTex pipeline system, in which we have a 50% interest, in filings with the FERC and Railroad Commission of Texas (\"RRC\"), alleging that the tariffs for the new capacity are discriminatory.  In January 2018, regulators from multiple states requested that the FERC reduce allowed rates for pipelines and public utilities in order that tax benefits realized by regulated entities from recent tax reform legislation be \"passed on\" to their customers.  We are unable to predict the outcome of these or any similar proceedings before the FERC, RRC or other authorities that regulate our tariffs.  Successful protests of our tariffs or any other actions that require that we lower our rates, pay rebates to shippers or make other concessions could cause our revenues to decrease and reduce our cash flow from operations and our ability to make cash distributions.. Our operations are subject to extensive environmental, health, safety and other laws and regulations that impose significant requirements, costs and liabilities on us. These requirements, costs and liabilities could increase as a result of new laws or regulations or changes in the interpretation, implementation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. Our customers are also subject to extensive environmental, health, safety and other laws and regulations, and any new laws or regulations or changes in the interpretation, implementation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations, including laws and regulations related to hydraulic fracturing, could result in decreased demand for our services.. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety, including but not limited to the CAA, the RCRA, the Oil Pollution Act, the CWA, the CERCLA, the HLPSA, the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011 and OSHA. Such laws and regulations affect almost all aspects of our operations and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, credits, inspections and other approvals. We incur substantial costs to comply with these laws and regulations, and any failure to comply may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fees, fines, penalties and interruptions in our operations that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and prospects. For example, if an accidental release or spill of petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to remediate the release or spill, pay government penalties, address natural resource damages, compensate for human exposure and property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures. The resulting costs and liabilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In addition, emission controls. 30. required under the CAA and other similar federal, state and provincial laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities.. Liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. In addition, our insurance may not cover us for fines and penalties levied against us by governmental agencies for releases that result in environmental damages.. Our assets have been used for many years to transport, store or distribute petroleum products and ammonia. Over time our operations, or operations by our predecessors or third parties not under our control, may have resulted in the disposal or release of hydrocarbons or solid wastes at or from these terminal properties and along pipeline rights-of-way. In addition, some of our terminals and pipelines are located on or near current or former refining and terminal sites, and there is a risk that contamination is present on those sites. We may be subject to strict, joint and several liability under a number of these environmental laws and regulations for such disposal and releases of hydrocarbons or solid wastes or the existence of contamination, even in circumstances where such activities or conditions were caused by third parties not under our control or were otherwise lawful at the time they occurred.. The laws and regulations that affect our operations, and the enforcement thereof, have become increasingly stringent over time. We cannot ensure that these laws and regulations will not be further revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures to comply with laws and regulations, including expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. We also face risks from political activists and protestors, who may attempt to delay pipeline construction through protests, sabotage and other means, as has recently occurred in North Dakota in relation to DAPL. In addition to increasing our costs or liabilities, legal or regulatory changes or changes in the cost or availability of permits or related credits, where applicable, could also impact our ability to develop new projects. For example, changes that affect permitting or siting processes or the use of eminent domain could prevent or delay our ability to construct new pipelines or storage tanks. Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions or liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects.. The Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011 increased penalties for safety violations, established additional safety requirements for newly-constructed pipelines and required studies of certain safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements for existing pipelines. PHMSA has also published notices and advanced notices of proposed rulemaking to solicit comments on the need for changes to its safety regulations, including whether to revise the integrity management requirements, and finalized revisions to its hazardous liquid pipeline safety regulations in January 2017. It is possible that new legislation and more stringent regulations could be adopted to enhance pipeline safety. Compliance with such legislative and regulatory changes could increase our compliance costs and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our customers are also subject to extensive laws and regulations that affect their businesses, and new laws or regulations could materially adversely affect their businesses or prospects. For example, several of our most significant customers are refineries whose businesses could be significantly impacted by changes in environmental or health-related laws or regulations. In addition, we have made and continue to make significant investments in crude oil and condensate storage and transportation projects that serve customers who largely depend on production techniques, such as hydraulic fracturing, that are currently being scrutinized by some federal and state authorities and have encountered political opposition that could result in increased regulatory costs or delays. For example, referendums in the state of Colorado, from where most of the volume on our Saddlehorn joint venture originates, sought to restrict hydraulic fracking in that state. While these referendums failed to receive sufficient support to get on the ballot, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of any such political activity in the future. Any changes in laws or regulations, or in the interpretation, implementation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations, that impose significant costs or liabilities on our customers, or that result in delays or cancellations of their projects,. 31. could reduce their demand for our services and materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows and our ability to pay cash distributions.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the products that we transport, store or distribute.. The EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA that require certain large stationary sources to obtain pre-construction permits and operating permits for greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, in September 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from certain large greenhouse gas emissions sources. This reporting rule was expanded in November 2010 to include petroleum facilities.. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. In addition, in December 2015, over 190 countries, including the United States, reached an agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (\"Paris Agreement\"). The Paris Agreement became effective in November 2016 after more than 70 countries, including the United States, ratified or otherwise indicated their intent to be bound by the agreement.  In August 2017, the current administration announced that the United States plans to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or establish a new framework.  The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020.  To the extent the United States and other countries impose other climate change regulations on the oil industry, it could have an adverse direct or indirect effect on our business.. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations that limit or regulate emissions of greenhouse gases could adversely affect demand for the products that we transport, store and distribute and, depending on the particular program adopted, could increase our costs to operate and maintain our facilities by requiring that we measure and report our emissions, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program, among other things. We may be unable to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged to our customers and any such recovery may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC or state regulatory agencies and the provisions of any final legislation or implementing regulations.. Finally, increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations.. Our butane blending activities subject us to federal regulations that govern renewable fuel requirements in the United States.. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 expanded the required use of renewable fuels in the United States. Each year, the EPA establishes an RVO requirement for refiners and fuel manufacturers based on overall quotas established by the federal government. By virtue of our butane blending activity and resulting gasoline production, we are an obligated party and receive an annual RVO from the EPA. In lieu of blending renewable fuels (such as ethanol and biodiesel), we typically purchase renewable energy credits, called RINs, to meet this obligation. RINs are generated when a gallon of biofuel such as ethanol or biodiesel is produced. RINs may be separated when the biofuel is blended into gasoline or diesel, at which point the RIN is available for use in compliance or is available for sale on the open market. Increases in the cost or decreases in the availability of RINs could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and cash distributions.. 32. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the product quality specifications of the petroleum products that we store, transport or sell.. Petroleum products that we store and transport are sold by our customers for consumption into the public market. Various federal, state and local agencies have the authority to prescribe specific product quality specifications for commodities sold into the public market. Changes in product quality specifications or blending requirements could reduce our throughput volume, require us to incur additional handling costs or require capital expenditures. For instance, different product specifications for different markets impact the fungibility of the products in our system and could require the construction of additional storage. If we are unable to recover these costs through increased revenue, our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions could be materially adversely affected.. In addition, changes in the product quality of the products we receive on our refined products pipeline, or changes in the product specifications in the markets we serve, could reduce or eliminate our ability to blend products, which would result in a reduction of our revenue and operating profit from blending activities. Any such reduction of our revenue or operating profit could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions.. Our butane blending activities are the subject of a request for a new rulemaking by the FERC and have been challenged in litigation.. In February 2018, two associations representing shippers on interstate liquids pipelines petitioned the FERC for a broad new rulemaking with respect to interactions between pipeline companies and their affiliates.  Among other claims, petitioners allege that blending activities conducted by pipelines are discriminatory.  In particular, petitioners made reference to a pending lawsuit against Colonial Pipeline Company (\"Colonial\") and our joint venture with Colonial, Powder Springs, in which the plaintiff has claimed that blending of refined products shipped on a pipeline by the pipeline company or its affiliate constitutes conversion of the shipper's property and is barred by the Carmack Amendment, which governs claims for damage or loss incurred to goods transported by a carrier in interstate commerce.  We have historically generated significant product margins from other blending activities on our refined products pipeline system.  If the shipper's claims are successful or if the FERC adopts new rules or regulations that inhibit or prohibit the blending activities of Powder Springs or of the refined products industry more broadly, our investment in Powder Springs could be impaired and the product margin we earn from these activities could be significantly reduced, which would adversely affect our profitability, our financial position and our ability to make distributions.. Our business could be affected adversely by union disputes and strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 14% of our workforce was covered by two collective bargaining agreements with different terms and dates of expirations. We could experience a work stoppage in the future as a result of disagreements with these labor unions. A prolonged work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business activities, results of operations and cash flows.. Skills and institutional knowledge possessed by our current employees may be difficult to retain, and our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to recruit and retain employees with appropriate skills.. A significant percentage of our employees, including much of our management team, will become eligible for retirement over the next several years. Many of those employees have skills and institutional knowledge that have been developed over many years of service. As these employees reach retirement age, we may be unable to replace them with employees with comparable knowledge and experience, and we may be unable to transfer their knowledge successfully to new qualified employees. In addition, our growth strategy requires that we hire additional employees with the skills required to develop and operate our assets. For example, our crude oil segment has experienced rapid growth in recent years, and we continue to make significant investments in each of our operating segments. If we are unable to transfer knowledge successfully to new employees or are otherwise unable to recruit. 33. and retain sufficiently talented personnel, we could experience increased costs, our growth strategy could be slowed or we could encounter other difficulties in running our business efficiently.. An impairment of long-lived assets, investments in non-controlled entities, goodwill or other intangibles could reduce our earnings and negatively impact the value of our limited partner units.. At December 31, 2017, we had $5.6 billion of net property, plant and equipment, $1.1 billion of investments in non-controlled entities, $53.3 million of goodwill, and $52.8 million of other intangibles. U.S. GAAP requires us to periodically test long-lived assets, investments in non-controlled entities, goodwill, and other intangibles for impairment. If we were to determine that any of our long-lived assets, investments in non-controlled entities, goodwill, or other intangibles were impaired, we would be required to take an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction of partners' equity. Such charges could be material to our results of operations and could adversely impact the value of our limited partner units.. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units.. Unitholders' voting rights are restricted by a provision in our partnership agreement stating that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of our common units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, our partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our unitholders' ability to influence our management. As a result of this provision, the trading price of our common units may be lower than other forms of equity ownership due to the absence of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Our unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if they were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that:. • We were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • Our unitholders' rights to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute \"control\" of our business.. Our general partner's board of directors' absolute discretion in determining our level of cash reserves may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner's board of directors to deduct from available cash the amount of any cash reserves that in its reasonable discretion are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits our general partner's board of directors to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable laws or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. Any such cash reserves will reduce the amount of cash currently available for distribution to our unitholders.. 34. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our limited partner units with contractual standards governing its duties.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner and its officers and directors would otherwise be held by state fiduciary law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its sole discretion, free of any duties to us and holders of our limited partner units other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us or our limited partners. In addition, our partnership agreement grants broad rights of indemnification to our general partner and its officers and directors. By owning a limited partner unit, a holder is treated as having consented to the provisions in our partnership agreement.. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our limited partner units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to holders of our limited partner units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement:. • provides that whenever our general partner is permitted or required to make a decision, in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is permitted or required to make such a decision in good faith and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation;. • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission if our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in good faith; and. • provides that, in the absence of bad faith, our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is approved in accordance with, or otherwise meets the standards set forth in, our partnership agreement.. Limited partner units held by persons who are not citizenship-eligible may be subject to redemption.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that apply if we determine that the nationality, citizenship or other related status of a holder of our limited partnership units creates a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest. If a holder of our limited partner units is not a person who meets the requirements to be a citizenship-eligible holder, which generally includes U.S. entities and individuals who are U.S. citizens, and, therefore, creates a risk to the partnership, the holder may have its limited partner units redeemed by us. In addition, if a holder of our limited partner units does not meet the requirements to be a citizenship-eligible holder, such holder will not be entitled to voting rights and may not receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation.. Tax Risks to Limited Partner Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation, it would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our limited partner units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. 35. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is a maximum of 21%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Payments to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced over time. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our limited partner units.. Our tax treatment or the tax treatment of our unitholders could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. From time to time the U.S. government considers substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law H.R. 1 (commonly referred to as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" or the \"TCJA\"), a comprehensive tax reform bill that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  The TCJA did not impact our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes; however, the TCJA did provide for significant changes to the taxation of our operations and to an investment in our limited partner units, including, among other changes, a new individual deduction for our unitholders relating to certain income from partnerships. Many of the provisions in the TCJA, including the deduction related to certain income from partnerships, are temporary and, without additional legislation, will sunset on December 31, 2025.  We are unable to predict whether any such additional legislation or any other tax-related proposals will ultimately be enacted. Moreover, any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact a unitholder's investment in our limited partner units.. At the state level, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. States frequently evaluate ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may materially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our limited partner units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The IRS has made no determination as to our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our limited partner units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders as the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.. Our unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. 36. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our limited partner units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell their limited partner units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those limited partner units. Prior distributions to our unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income they were allocated for a limited partner unit, which decreased their tax basis in that limited partner unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if the limited partner unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that limited partner unit, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell their limited partner units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning our limited partner units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in limited partner units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans, individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and foreign persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to foreign persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and foreign persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Tax-exempt entities or foreign persons should consult their tax advisor before investing in our limited partner units.. We will treat each purchaser of limited partner units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual limited partner units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our limited partner units.. Primarily because we cannot match transferors and transferees of limited partner units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of limited partner units and could have a negative impact on the value of our limited partner units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns.. The IRS may challenge aspects of our proration method, and, if successful, we would be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our limited partner units each month based upon the ownership of our limited partner units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The U.S. Department of Treasury and the IRS issued Treasury Regulations that permit publicly traded partnerships to use a monthly simplifying convention that is similar to ours, but they do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge this method, we could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. 37. A unitholder whose limited partner units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of limited partner units may be considered to have disposed of those limited partner units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those limited partner units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose limited partner units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of limited partner units may be considered to have disposed of the loaned limited partner units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those limited partner units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those limited partner units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those limited partner units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their limited partner units.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our limited partner units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, in certain circumstances, including when we issue additional units, we must determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our limited partner units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount, character and timing of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of our limited partner units and could have a negative impact on the value of our limited partner units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. Our unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our limited partner units.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own assets and conduct business in 25 states, most of which impose a personal income tax. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us. Generally, we expect to elect to have our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, but there can be no assurance that such election will be made, or applicable, in all circumstances. If we are unable to have our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us. 38. during the tax year under audit, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the economic burden resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. The current administration has delayed the implementation of certain regulations and signaled through formal and informal means that certain other income tax related regulations could be changed. The partnership audit regulations could be subject to revision, withdrawal or material adjustment, but the specifics of any such action cannot be reasonably predicted at this time."
