[1] "ITEM 1A.Risk Factors. Changes in Interest Rates May Hurt our Profits and Asset Values.. Our earnings largely depend on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between:. ·the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and. ·the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings.. The rates we earn on our assets and the rates we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. While we have taken steps to attempt to reduce our exposure to increases in interest rates, historically our liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. Likewise, in a period of falling interest rates, the interest expense paid on our liabilities may not decrease as rapidly as the interest income received on our assets. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Management of Market Risk.”. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed securities. A reduction in interest rates causes increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities as borrowers tend to refinance their debt to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest the funds from faster prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans.. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2017, the fair value of our total securities portfolio was $63.1 million. The unrealized net loss on securities totaled $294,000 on a pre-tax basis at September 30, 2017.. 29. Table of Contents. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity using models that estimate the change in Magyar Bank’s net interest income over a range of interest rate scenarios. At September 30, 2017, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, the model projects that we would experience a $539,000, or 2.89%, decrease in net interest income in the first year following the change in interest rates, and a $79,000, or 0.42%, increase in net interest income in the second year following the change in interest rates. At September 30, 2017, in the event of an immediate 100 basis point decrease in interest rates, the model projects that we would experience a $753,000, or 4.03%, decrease in net interest income in the first year following the change in interest rates, and a $1.3 million, or 7.06%, decrease in net interest income in the second year following the change in interest rates.. At September 30, 2017, our available-for-sale securities portfolio totaled $11.8 million, which included $9.4 million mortgage-backed securities. To the extent interest rates increase and the value of our available-for-sale portfolio decreases, our stockholders’ equity will be adversely affected.. Because We Intend to Continue our Emphasis on the Origination of Commercial Business Loans and Commercial Real Estate Loans, Our Lending Risk Has Increased in Recent Years and May Increase in Future Years.. At September 30, 2017, our portfolio of commercial business and commercial real estate loans totaled $248.2 million, or 52.4% of our total loans, compared to $238.4 million, or 52.1% of our total loans at September 30, 2016 and $215.3 million, or 50.9% of our total loans at September 30, 2015. It is our intent to continue to emphasize the origination of commercial business and commercial real estate loans. Commercial business and commercial real estate loans generally have more risk than one-to four-family residential mortgage loans. At September 30, 2017, our non-performing loans decreased to $2.4 million from $4.2 million at September 30, 2016. Because the repayment of these loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of these loans has been and may continue to be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. Further, these loans typically have larger loan balances, and several of our borrowers have more than one commercial business and commercial real estate loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial business or commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Because we plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these loans, it may be necessary to increase our allowance for loan losses because of the increased credit risk associated with these types of loans. Any increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings.. A Worsening of Economic Conditions Could Reduce Demand for Our Products and Services and/or Result in Increases in Our Level of Non-performing Loans, Which Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations.. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, our profitability depends primarily on the general economic conditions in New Jersey and the greater New York metropolitan area. Local economic conditions have a significant impact on our commercial real estate and construction and consumer loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Almost all of our loans are to borrowers located in or secured by collateral located in New Jersey and the New York metropolitan area.. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations:. ·demand for our products and services may decline;. ·loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. ·collateral for loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ future borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans;. ·the value of our securities portfolio may decline; and. ·the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us.. 30. Table of Contents. Moreover, a significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could further impact these local economic conditions and could further negatively affect the financial results of our banking operations. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease.. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, requiring additions to our allowance, which could materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 0.73% of total loans and 147.4% of total non-performing loans at September 30, 2017. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. Based on this review, we believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb losses in our loan portfolio as of September 30, 2017.. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for the Company for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2020. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we will need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. For additional information see “Business of Magyar Bank-Competition.”. If We Declare Dividends on Our Common Stock, Magyar Bancorp, MHC Will Be Prohibited from Waiving the Receipt of Dividends by Current Federal Reserve Board Policy, Which May Result in Lower Dividends for All Other Stockholders.. The Board of Directors of Magyar Bancorp, Inc. has the authority to declare dividends on its common stock, subject to statutory and regulatory requirements. So long as Magyar Bancorp, MHC is regulated by the FRB, if Magyar Bancorp, Inc. pays dividends to its stockholders, it also will be required to pay dividends to Magyar Bancorp, MHC, unless Magyar Bancorp, MHC is permitted by the FRB to waive the receipt of dividends. The FRB’s current position is to not permit a mutual holding company to waive dividends declared by its subsidiary. Accordingly, because dividends will be required to be paid to Magyar Bancorp, MHC along with all other stockholders, the amount of dividends available for all other shareholders will be less than if Magyar Bancorp, MHC were permitted to waive the receipt of dividends.. 31. Table of Contents. Magyar Bancorp, MHC Exercises Voting Control Over Magyar Bancorp, Inc.; Public Stockholders Own a Minority Interest.. Magyar Bancorp, MHC owns a majority of Magyar Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock and, through its Board of Directors, exercises voting control over the outcome of all matters put to a vote of stock holders (including the election of directors), except for matters that require a vote greater than a majority. Public stockholders own a minority of the outstanding shares of Magyar Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock. The same directors and officers who manage Magyar Bancorp, Inc. and Magyar Bank also manage Magyar Bancorp, MHC. In addition, regulatory restrictions applicable to Magyar Bancorp, MHC prohibit the sale of Magyar Bancorp, Inc. unless the mutual holding company first undertakes a second-step conversion.. We Operate In A Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected By Changes In Laws And Regulations.. Magyar Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the NJDBI, its chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which insures Magyar Bank’s deposits. As a bank holding company, Magyar Bancorp, Inc. is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which financial institutions and their holding companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the federal deposit insurance fund and depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operations of financial institutions, the classification of assets by financial institutions and the adequacy of financial institutions’ allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on Magyar Bank and Magyar Bancorp, Inc.. Magyar Bank’s operations are also subject to extensive regulation by other federal, state and local governmental authorities, and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions that impose requirements and restrictions on operations. These laws, rules and regulations are frequently changed by legislative and regulatory authorities. There can be no assurance that changes to existing laws, rules and regulations, or any other new laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects.. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or Other Laws and Regulations Could Result in Fines or Sanctions.. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions, including restrictions on conducting acquisitions or establishing new branches. During the last year, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, these policies and procedures may not be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. System Failure or Breaches of Our Network Security Could Subject Us to Increased Operating Costs as well as Litigation and Other Liabilities.. The computer systems and network infrastructure we and our third-party service providers use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures designed to prevent such damage, our security measures may not be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 32. Table of Contents. It is possible that a significant amount of time and money may be spent to rectify the harm caused by a breach or hack. While we have general liability insurance, there are limitations on coverage as well as dollar amount. Furthermore, cyber incidents carry a greater risk of injury to our reputation. Finally, depending on the type of incident, banking regulators can impose restrictions on our business and consumer laws may require reimbursement of customer loss.. Risks Associated with Cyber-Security Could Negatively Affect Our Earnings.. The financial services industry has experienced an increase in both the number and severity of reported cyber attacks aimed at gaining unauthorized access to bank systems as a way to misappropriate assets and sensitive information, corrupt and destroy data, or cause operational disruptions. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of security breaches, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. Although we rely on security safeguards to secure our data, these safeguards may not fully protect our systems from compromises or breaches.. We also rely on the integrity and security of a variety of third party processors, payment, clearing and settlement systems, as well as the various participants involved in these systems, many of which have no direct relationship with us. Failure by these participants or their systems to protect our customers' transaction data may put us at risk for possible losses due to fraud or operational disruption.. Our customers are also the target of cyber-attacks and identity theft. Large scale identity theft could result in customers' accounts being compromised and fraudulent activities being performed in their name. We have implemented certain safeguards against these types of activities but they may not fully protect us from fraudulent financial losses.. The occurrence of a breach of security involving our customers' information, regardless of its origin, could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business and subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, and could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations."
