[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Introduction. Investing in our securities carries risk. Managing risk effectively is critical to our success, and our organization is built around intelligent risk assumptions and prudent risk management. We have identified what we believe reflect key significant risks to the organization, and in turn to our shareholders, which are outlined below. Any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition to these enumerated risks, we face numerous other strategic, operational and emerging risks that could in the aggregate lead to shortfalls to our long-term goals or add to short-term volatility in our earnings. The following review of important risk factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with other cautionary statements that are included herein or elsewhere. The words or phrases believe, anticipate, estimate, project, plan, expect, intend, hope, forecast, evaluate, will likely result or will continue or words or phrases of similar import generally involve forward-looking statements. All of the risks that may affect our financial or operating performance may not be material at this time but may become material in the future. As used in these Risk Factors, the terms \"we\", \"our\" or \"us\" may, depending upon the context, refer to the Company, to one or more of the Company's consolidated subsidiaries or to all of them taken as a whole.. Business. Our business model is different than other Bermuda reinsurers.. Unlike many other publicly traded Bermuda reinsurance companies, we do not write property catastrophe reinsurance, nor do we maintain substantial primary insurance operations. As a result, you may not be able to compare our business's performance or prospects to other Bermuda-domiciled publicly traded reinsurers, who have very different strategies and balance sheet structures than us.. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively.. Since our inception, our business has grown at a compound annual growth rate of 20.8%. We expect our business growth to moderate in the future as we continue our relationships with existing clients while seeking opportunities to reinsure other insurance companies operating in similar niches. Expansion of our business at a rate faster than we anticipate could require additional resources including capital and possibly personnel.. While we believe we have demonstrated our ability to effectively manage growth to date, and believe we have additional measures at our disposal to effectively manage growth, both anticipated and unanticipated, we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our capital needs, expand our systems effectively, allocate our human resources optimally, identify and hire qualified employees or incorporate effectively the components of any businesses we may acquire. The failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additional measures available to us include but are not limited to, additional capital offerings including debt, equity and hybrid-based, the use of retrocessional reinsurance and the application of other reinsurance mechanisms that reduce or limit the amount of exposure we assume. There can be no guarantee, however, that such measures can be implemented on terms and conditions that do not have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Ongoing economic uncertainty could materially and adversely affect our business, our liquidity and financial condition.. Global economies and financial markets have, from time to time, experienced significant disruption or deterioration and likely will experience periods of disruption or deterioration in the future. In addition, U.S. federal and state governments continue to experience significant structural fiscal deficits, creating uncertainty as to levels of taxation, inflation, regulation and other economic fundamentals that may impact future growth prospects. Significantly greater economic, fiscal and monetary uncertainty remains in Europe, due to the combination of poor economic growth, high unemployment and significant sovereign deficits which have called into question the future of the common currency used across most of Europe. European economic activity appears likely to remain volatile in the near future and to potentially have a continuing impact on the U.S. economy. Continuation of these conditions may potentially affect (among other aspects of our business) the demand for and claims made under our products, the ability of clients, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources and our investment performance.. Our Agency Mortgage-backed securities (\"MBS\") constitute 39.2% of our fixed maturity investments at December 31, 2017.  As with other fixed income investments, the fair value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can expose us to changes in the prepayment rate on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and MBS are prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current lower market rates. Conversely, in periods of rising rates, mortgage prepayments generally fall, preventing us from taking full advantage of the higher level of rates. However, economic conditions may curtail prepayment activity on the underlying mortgages if refinancing is difficult, thus limiting prepayments on the MBS portfolio. In the event that these conditions persist and result in a prolonged period of economic uncertainty, our results of operations, our financial condition and/or liquidity, and our prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. Our actual losses may be greater than our reserve for loss and LAE, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We expect that our success will depend upon our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses that we will reinsure. Significant periods of time often elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to an insurer and the reporting of the loss by the insurer to its reinsurer and the ultimate disposition of that loss. The reserves we establish represent estimates of amounts needed to pay reported losses and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expense. Loss reserves are only an estimate of what an insurer or reinsurer anticipates the ultimate costs of claims to be and do not represent an. 21. exact calculation of liability. Estimating loss reserves is a difficult and complex process involving many variables and subjective judgments. As part of our reserving process, we review historical data as well as actuarial and statistical projections and consider the impact of various factors such as: trends in claim frequency and severity; changes in operations; emerging economic and social trends; inflation; and changes in the regulatory and litigation environments.. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future events. There is no precise method, however, for evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves, and actual results are likely to differ from original estimates. In addition, unforeseen losses, the type or magnitude of which we cannot predict, may emerge in the future. We will establish or adjust reserves for our insurance subsidiaries in part based upon loss data received from the ceding companies with which we do business, including AmTrust. There is a time delay that elapses between the receipt and recording of claims results by the ceding insurance companies and the receipt and recording of those results by us. Accordingly, establishment and adjustment of reserves for our insurance subsidiaries is dependent upon timely and accurate estimate reporting from cedants and agents.. During 2016 and 2017, we recognized adverse development, largely in the AmTrust Quota Share and in Commercial Auto in the US Diversified segment, that was significantly greater than we expected. While we adjusted our reserves to a level we believe to be sufficient to cover losses assumed by us, there can be no assurance that losses will not deviate from our reserves, possibly by material amounts. To the extent actual reported losses exceed expected losses, the carried estimate of the ultimate losses will be increased, which represents unfavorable reserve development, and to the extent actual reported losses are less than our expectations, the carried estimate of ultimate losses will be reduced, which represents favorable reserve development.. The inherent uncertainty of models and the use of such models as a tool to evaluate risk may have an adverse impact on our financial results.. We use both our own proprietary models and widely accepted and industry-recognized third party vendor analytic and modeling capabilities to provide us with pricing, capital modeling and objective risk assessment relating to risks in our reinsurance portfolio. In addition, we also use widely accepted and industry-recognized third party vendor analytic and modeling capabilities to provide us with objective risk assessment relating to catastrophe risks in our reinsurance portfolio. These models help us control risk accumulation, inform management and other stakeholders of capital requirements and to improve the risk/return profile or minimize the amount of capital required to cover the risks in each reinsurance contract in our overall portfolio of reinsurance contracts. However, given the inherent uncertainty of modeling techniques and the application of such techniques, these models and databases may not accurately address the emergence of a variety of matters which might be deemed to impact certain of our coverages. Accordingly, these models may understate the exposures we are assuming and our financial results may be adversely impacted, perhaps significantly.. For our property and casualty reinsurance underwriting, we depend on the policies, procedures and expertise of ceding companies; these companies may fail to accurately assess and price the risks they underwrite, which may lead us to inaccurately assess and price the risks we assume.. Our participation in property and casualty reinsurance markets means the success of our underwriting efforts depends, in part, upon the policies, procedures and expertise of the ceding companies making the original underwriting decisions. As common among reinsurers, we do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties. We face the risk that these ceding companies may fail to accurately assess the risks that they assume initially, which, in turn, may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume.. If we fail to establish and receive appropriate pricing or fail to contractually limit our exposure to such risks, we could face significant losses on these contracts, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. Our business success and reputation depend, in part, on effective information technology systems.. We believe our modeling, underwriting and information technology and application systems are critical to our business and reputation. Moreover, our technology and applications have been an important part of our underwriting process and our ability to compete successfully. Such technology is and will continue to be a very important part of our underwriting process. We have also licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable service providers, or that our technology or applications will continue to operate as intended. In addition, we cannot be certain that we would be able to replace these service providers or consultants without slowing our underwriting response time. A major defect or failure in our internal controls or information technology and application systems could result in management distraction, harm to our reputation, a loss or delay of revenues or increased expense.. Our internal control and reporting systems might not be effective in the future, which could increase the risk that we would become subject to restatements of our financial results or to regulatory action or litigation or other developments that could adversely affect our business.. Our ability to produce accurate financial statements and comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations is largely dependent on our maintenance of internal control and reporting systems, as well as on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and accounting and actuarial personnel to further develop our internal accounting function and control policies. If we fail to effectively establish and maintain such reporting and accounting systems or fail to attract and retain personnel who are capable of designing and operating such systems, these failures will increase the likelihood that we may be required to restate our financial results to correct errors or that we will become subject to legal and regulatory infractions, which may entail civil litigation and investigations by regulatory agencies including the SEC. In addition, if our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and our financial flexibility and the value of our common shares could be adversely impacted.. 22. The occurrence of severe catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Although our business strategy generally precludes us from writing significant amounts of catastrophe exposed business in our reinsurance segment, most property reinsurance contains some exposure to catastrophic loss. Our Diversified Reinsurance segment includes only limited exposure to natural and man-made disasters, such as hurricane, typhoon, windstorm, flood, earthquake, acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. We utilize PML estimates for the U.S. to manage exposures to our natural catastrophes. We also use contract provisions such as occurrence caps and inuring excess to manage exposure to natural catastrophes.. While we attempt to carefully manage our aggregate exposure to catastrophes, modeling errors and the incidence and severity of catastrophes, such as hurricanes, windstorms, cyber attacks and large-scale terrorist attacks, are inherently unpredictable, and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. Further, many scientists believe that the earth's atmospheric and oceanic temperatures are increasing and that, in recent years, changing climate conditions have increased the unpredictability, severity and frequency of natural disasters in certain parts of the world.. We may face substantial exposure to losses from terrorism, acts of war and political instability.. We may have exposure to losses resulting from acts of terrorism, acts of war and political instability as a reinsurer of U.S. domiciled insurers. U.S. insurers are required by state and federal law to offer coverage for terrorism in certain commercial lines. These risks are inherently unpredictable, although recent events may lead to increased frequency and severity. It is difficult to predict the occurrence of these perils with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss an occurrence will generate. We closely monitor the amount and types of coverage we provide for terrorism risk under insurance policies and reinsurance treaties. We often seek to exclude or limit terrorism when we cannot reasonably evaluate the risk of loss or charge an appropriate premium for such risk. Even in cases where we have deliberately sought to exclude coverage, we may not be able to eliminate our exposure to terrorist acts, and thus it is possible that these acts could have a material adverse effect on us.. We may or may not use retrocessional and reinsurance coverage to limit our exposure to risks. Any retrocessional or reinsurance coverage that we obtain may be limited, and credit and other risks associated with our retrocessional and reinsurance arrangements may result in losses which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We will provide reinsurance to our clients and in turn we may or may not retrocede reinsurance we assume to other insurers and reinsurers. If we do not use retrocessional coverage or reinsurance, our exposure to losses will be greater than if we did obtain such coverage. If we do obtain retrocessional or reinsurance coverage, some of the insurers or reinsurers to whom we may retrocede coverage or reinsure with may be domiciled in Bermuda or other non-U.S. locations. We would be subject to credit and other risks that depend upon the financial strength of these reinsurers. Further, we will be subject to credit risk with respect to any retrocessional or reinsurance arrangements because the ceding of risk to reinsurers and retrocessionaires would not relieve us of our liability to the clients or companies we insure or reinsure. Our failure to establish adequate reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements or the failure of any retrocessional arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may attempt to mitigate such risks by retaining collateral or trust accounts for premium and claims receivables, but nevertheless we cannot be assured that reinsurance will be fully collectable in the case of all potential claims outcomes.. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. We also seek to limit loss exposure through loss limitation provisions in policies we write, such as limitations on the amount of losses that can be claimed under a policy, limitations or exclusions from coverage and provisions relating to choice of forum, which are intended to assure that our policies are legally interpreted as intended. There can be no assurance that these contractual provisions will be enforceable in the manner expected or that disputes relating to coverage will be resolved in our favor. If the loss limitation provisions in the policies are not enforceable or disputes arise concerning the application of such provisions, the losses we incur could be materially higher than expected and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain.. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Our exposure to these uncertainties could be exacerbated by an increase in insurance and reinsurance contract disputes, arbitration and litigation.. Our business is subject to risks related to litigation.. We may from time to time be subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business relating to our current and past business operations, including, but not limited to, disputes over coverage or claims adjudication, including claims alleging that we have acted in bad faith in the administration of claims by our policyholders, disputes with our agents, producers and termination of contracts and related claims and disputes with former employees. We also cannot determine with any certainty what new theories of recovery may evolve or what their impact may be on our business.. An adverse resolution of one or more lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a particular fiscal quarter or year.. The failure of our underwriting process could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. We seek to manage our loss exposure by maintaining a disciplined underwriting process throughout our (re)insurance operations. This is achieved through our risk appetite for traditional, lower volatility lines of business that are more predictable and thus,. 23. produce more stable long-term operating results and require less capital to achieve those results; and by placing emphasis on working layer and pro rata reinsurance participations where data is more abundant and predictable.  Underwriting is a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. The failure of any of the underwriting risk management strategies that we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We rely on internal controls and underwriting guidelines to limit our risk exposure within prescribed parameters. However, our controls and monitoring efforts may be ineffective, permitting one or more underwriters to exceed underwriting authority and cause us to (re)insure risks outside the agreed upon guidelines. To the extent that our underwriters exceed their authorities, agree to inappropriate contract terms and conditions or are influenced by broker incentives, or if there is inaccurate underwriting data capture and reporting leading to licensing and sanction breaches, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Technology breaches or failures, including, but not limited to, those resulting from cyber-attacks on us or our business partners and service providers, could disrupt or otherwise negatively impact our business.. Information technology and application systems can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, however, technology initiatives present certain risks. Our business is dependent upon our employees and outsources ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. Like all companies, our information technology systems are vulnerable to data breaches, interruptions or failures due to events that may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, theft, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, hackers and general technology failures. Our information technology systems include the Internet and third-party hosted services. We use information systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and for regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. We also use information systems for electronic communications with customers and our various locations.. A shutdown or inability to access one or more of our facilities, a power outage, a security breach, or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. These incidents could be caused by malicious or disruptive software, computer hackers, rogue employees, cyber-attacks, failures of telecommunications systems or other catastrophic events. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our employees and our business, banking and investment partners depends on information technology and electronic information exchange. In addition, we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to us, and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. We could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy any damage caused to repair or replace information systems.. We believe that we have established and implemented appropriate security measures, controls and procedures to safeguard our information technology systems and to prevent unauthorized access to such systems and any data processed and/or stored in such systems, and we periodically employ third parties to evaluate and test the adequacy of such systems, controls and procedures. In addition, we have established a business continuity plan which is designed to ensure that we are able to maintain all aspects of our key business processes functioning in the midst of certain disruptive events, including any disruptions to or breaches of our information technology systems. We continue to make investments in technologies, cyber-insurance and training. Our business continuity plans are tested and evaluated for adequacy. Despite these safeguards, disruptions to and breaches of our information technology systems are possible and may negatively impact our business.. Like most major corporations, the Company's information systems are a target of attacks. Although we have experienced no known material or threatened cases involving unauthorized access to our information technology systems and data or unauthorized appropriation of such data to date, we have no assurance that such technology breaches will not occur in the future.. The U.K.'s vote in favor of leaving the EU could adversely affect us.. As a result of Brexit, negotiations to determine the terms of the U.K.'s withdrawal from the EU and its future relationship with the EU are ongoing. As a result, the risks associated with the potential consequences that may follow Brexit, including volatility in financial markets, exchange rates and interest rates, are uncertain. These uncertainties could increase the volatility of, or reduce, our investment results in particular periods or over time. Brexit could adversely affect European or worldwide political, regulatory, economic or market conditions and could contribute to instability in global political institutions and regulatory agencies.. We believe, as a Bermuda reinsurance company, we are well positioned to continue trading with both markets after the completion of these negotiations. However, given these possibilities and others we may not anticipate, as well as the lack of comparable precedent, the full extent to which our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by Brexit is uncertain.. 24. Insurance and Reinsurance Markets. The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industry is cyclical in nature, which may affect our overall financial performance.. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical periods of price competition and excess capacity (known as a soft market) followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity (known as a hard market). Although the financial performance of an individual insurance or reinsurance company is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty insurance and reinsurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern.. In recent years, the market has been in a competitive environment in which underwriting capacity has expanded, risk selection became less disciplined and price competition increased sharply. During that period, market participants' capital levels have continued to improve due to positive earnings and improved values of risk assets over that time. In addition, an influx of new market participants with different operating models than traditional reinsurers such as us have entered the market place. While many of these new market participants specialize in property catastrophe oriented business and do not directly compete with us, they are influencing competitive conditions in the broader reinsurance market. This additional underwriting capacity resulted in increased competition from other insurance and reinsurance companies expanding the types or amounts of business they write, or from companies seeking to maintain or increase market share at the expense of underwriting discipline.. Because this cyclicality is due in large part to the actions of our competitors and general economic factors beyond our control, we cannot predict with certainty the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle. These cyclical patterns, the actions of our competitors, and general economic factors could cause our revenues and net income to fluctuate, which may cause the price of our common shares to be volatile. The ultimate outcome of these events and their market impact is not known at this time.. Negative developments in the U.S. workers' compensation insurance industry could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In 2017, reinsurance of U.S. workers' compensation insurance was 40.8% of total gross premiums written, which is our largest exposure to a particular line of business, and reflects the ongoing growth of our largest client, AmTrust. Nonetheless, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the U.S. workers' compensation insurance industry could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, if legislators in our larger markets were to enact legislation to increase the scope or amount of benefits for employees under U.S. workers' compensation insurance policies without related premium increases or loss control measures, or if regulators made other changes to the regulatory system governing U.S. workers' compensation insurance, this could negatively affect the U.S. workers' compensation insurance industry in the affected markets.. In many states, there are active regulatory activities that oversee the level of rates that can be charged by individual insurers. As a result, there is a risk that our clients may not be able to implement needed rate increases to maintain sufficient levels of profitability on business we write and clients may implement decreases that adversely affect us.. We operate in a highly competitive industry.. The reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete with major U.S. and non-U.S. reinsurers, including other Bermuda-based reinsurers, on an international and regional basis. Many of these entities have significantly larger amounts of capital, higher ratings from rating agencies and more resources than us. Historically, periods of increased capacity levels in our industry have led to increased competition which puts pressure on reinsurance pricing.. In recent years, significant increases in the use of risk-linked securities and derivative and other non-traditional risk transfer mechanisms and vehicles are being developed and offered by other parties, including entities other than insurance and reinsurance companies. The availability of both these non-traditional products and sources of capital could reduce the demand for traditional insurance and reinsurance and may result in fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could have a material adverse impact on our growth and profitability.. We believe that there will be opportunities to renew existing business and write new reinsurance and insurance through Maiden US and Maiden Bermuda. We cannot assure you, however, that Maiden US or Maiden Bermuda will retain its clients or write new business as we may expect. However, market conditions have been competitive for an extended period of time and are expected to remain competitive for the foreseeable future, particularly as new market participants with business objectives different from ours influence the competitive environment. In addition, other companies may continue to offer reinsurance and insurance products on more competitive terms than we can provide. Under these circumstances, we might not be able to expand our reinsurance business and the failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our ability to fully implement our business strategy, as well as on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our efforts to develop products, expand in targeted markets or modify our business and strategic plans may not be successful and may create enhanced risks.. A number of our planned business initiatives involve developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. To develop new products or markets, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may negatively impact our results in the near term. In addition, the demand for new products or in new markets may not meet our expectations. To the extent we are able to market new products or expand in new markets, our risk exposures may change and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as sophisticated as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. This, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of expectations. As part of our ongoing efforts to continually improve our performance, we regularly evaluate our business plans and strategies, which may result in changes to our business plans and initiatives, some of which may be material. We are subject to increasing risks related to our ability to successfully implement our. 25. evolving plans and strategies. Changing plans and strategies requires significant management of time and effort, and may divert management's attention from our core operations and competencies. Moreover, modifications we undertake to our operations may not immediately result in improved financial performance. Therefore, risks associated with implementing or changing our business strategies and initiatives, including risks related to developing or enhancing the operations, controls and other infrastructure required for these strategies and initiatives, may not have a positive impact on our publicly reported results until many years after implementation. The risk that we may fail to have the ability to carry out our business plans may have an adverse effect on our long-term results of operations and financial condition.. Consolidation in the insurance and reinsurance industry and increased competition on premium rates could lead to lower margins for us and less demand for our products and services.. The insurance and reinsurance industry continues to undergo a process of consolidation as industry participants seek to enhance their product and geographic reach, client base, operating efficiency and general market power through merger and acquisition activities. It is possible that the larger combined entities resulting from these mergers and acquisition activities may seek to use the benefits of consolidation, including improved efficiencies and economies of scale, to, among other things, implement price reductions for their products and services to increase their market shares. Consolidation among primary insurance companies may also lead to reduced use of reinsurance as the resulting larger companies may be able to retain more risk and may also have bargaining power in negotiations with reinsurers. If competitive pressures compel us to reduce our prices, our operating margins will decrease.. As the insurance and reinsurance industry consolidates, competition may become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, which could reduce our operating margins. When the property-casualty insurance industry has exhibited a greater degree of competition, premium rates have come under downward pressure as a result. Greater competition could result in reduced volumes of reinsurance written and could reduce our profitability.. Financial Strength and Debt Ratings. Ratings downgrades of either Maiden Bermuda or Maiden US may adversely affect our competitive position and our ability to meet our financial goals and capital requirements.. Competition in the types of insurance business that we intend to reinsure is based on many factors, including the perceived financial strength of the insurer and ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. Maiden Bermuda and Maiden US have each received a financial strength rating of \"A\" (Excellent, the third highest out of sixteen rating levels) with a stable outlook from A.M. Best. On November 17, 2017, S&P Global Ratings (\"S&P\") lowered its long - term issuer credit and financial strength ratings on our principal operating subsidiaries to 'BBB' from 'BBB+' with a negative outlook. S&P also lowered its long - term issuer credit and senior debt ratings on Maiden Holdings to 'BB+' from 'BBB - '. At our request, S&P then subsequently withdrew its ratings and we thus have no S&P ratings at the present time. Our withdrawal of the S&P rating did not have a material impact on opportunities in the subsequent months and there has not been a noticeable reduction in current underwriting opportunities.. Ratings from these agencies are an opinion of our financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to our future policyholders, and it is not an evaluation directed to our investors in our common shares, preference shares or senior notes, nor is it a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our common shares, preference shares or senior notes. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.. The ratings of Maiden Bermuda and Maiden US are subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at any time at the sole discretion of the rating agency. If A.M. Best were to downgrade Maiden Bermuda's rating two notches to below \"A-\", AII and other clients would have the right to terminate their respective reinsurance agreements. More generally, if A.M. Best were to downgrade Maiden Bermuda or Maiden US, our competitive position would suffer, and our ability to market our products, to obtain clients and to compete in the reinsurance industry could be adversely affected. A downgrade below A- could result in a substantial loss of business because our clients may move to other reinsurers with higher claims paying and financial strength ratings.. Clients, Brokers and Financial Institutions. Our business is dependent upon reinsurance brokers and other producers, including third party administrators and financial institutions, and the failure to develop or maintain these relationships could materially adversely affect our ability to market our products and services.. We market a significant portion of products in our Diversified Reinsurance segment through brokers and expect that we will derive a significant portion of our business from a limited number of brokers. Our failure to further develop or maintain relationships with brokers from whom we expect to receive our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk.. In accordance with industry practice, we anticipate that we will frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers in turn are required to pay and will pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased reinsurance from us. If a broker fails to make such a payment, it is highly likely that we will be liable to the client for the deficiency under local laws or contractual obligations, notwithstanding the broker's obligation to make such payment. Likewise, when the client pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we actually receive the premiums from the brokers. Consequently, we will assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers with whom we work with respect to most of our reinsurance business.. 26. We could incur substantial losses and reduced liquidity if one of the financial institutions we use in our operations fails.. We have exposure to counterparties in many different industries and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the obligation.. We maintain cash balances, including restricted cash held in trust accounts, significantly in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits at various depository institutions. We also maintain cash balances in foreign banks and institutions. If one or more of these financial institutions were to fail, our ability to access cash balances may be temporarily or permanently limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Liquidity, Capital Resources and Investments. A significant amount of our invested assets are subject to changes in interest rates and market volatility. If we were unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Investment income is an important component of our net income. At December 31, 2017, the total investments of $5.1 billion represented 96.4% of our total cash and investments, of which $6.6 million or 0.1% were in other investments, a combination of investments in limited partnerships and equity investments. As a result of market conditions prevailing at a particular time, the allocation of our portfolio to various asset types may vary. The fair market value of these assets and the investment income from these assets will fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. As we currently classify 78.7% of our fixed maturity investments as AFS, changes in the market value of our securities are reflected in shareholders' equity. The remainder of our fixed maturity investments are held-to-maturity (\"HTM\") and carried at amortized cost.. Our Board of Directors have established our investment policies and our executive management is implementing our investment strategy with the assistance of our investment managers. Although these guidelines stress diversification and capital preservation, our investment results will be subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to changes in the business, financial condition or results of operations of the entities in which we invest, as well as changes in general economic conditions and overall market conditions, interest rate fluctuations and market volatility. Given our reliance on external investment managers, we are also exposed to operational risks, which may include, but are not limited to, a failure of these managers to follow our investment policy guidelines, a failure to maintain proper internal controls, technological and staffing deficiencies and inadequate disaster recovery plans.. Our investment portfolio consists almost completely of interest rate-sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio and future investment income. For example, changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on U.S. Government Agency mortgage-backed securities (\"Agency MBS\") included in our investment portfolio (all Agency MBS are currently \"AA+\" rated by S&P). Increases in interest rates will decrease the fair market value of our investments in fixed-income securities. If increases in interest rates occur during periods when we sell investments to satisfy liquidity needs, we may experience investment losses. In addition, a declining interest rate environment can result in reductions in our investment yield as new funds and proceeds from sales and maturities of fixed income securities are reinvested at lower rates. This reduces our overall profitability.. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. In order to limit our exposure to unexpected interest rate increases which would reduce the value of our fixed income securities and reduce our shareholders' equity, we attempt to maintain the duration of our fixed maturity investment portfolio combined with our cash and cash equivalents, both restricted and unrestricted, within a reasonable range of the duration of our loss reserves. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, these respective durations in years were as follows:. For the Year Ended December 31,   2017   2016 Fixed maturities and cash and cash equivalents   4.4   4.9 Reserve for loss and LAE   3.6   3.8. The differential in duration between these assets and liabilities may fluctuate over time and in the case of fixed maturities, is affected by factors such as market conditions, asset allocations and prepayment speeds in the case of Agency MBS.. We believe we have substantially mitigated our exposure to liquidity risk through prudent duration management and strong operating cash flow. We also have very limited property catastrophe exposures which could cause an immediate need for cash. However, if we do not structure our investment portfolio so that it is appropriately matched with our reinsurance liabilities or our operating cash flow declines, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover such liabilities. For this or any of the other reasons discussed above, investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base, which would adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Any significant decline in our investment income would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The determination of the fair values of our investments and whether a decline in the fair value of an investment is other-than-temporary are based on management's judgment and may prove to be incorrect.. We hold a significant amount of assets without readily available, active, quoted market prices or for which fair value cannot be measured from actively quoted prices. These assets are generally deemed to require a higher degree of judgment used in. 27. measuring fair value. The assumptions used by management to measure fair values could turn out to be wrong and the actual amounts that may be realized in an orderly transaction with a willing market participant could be either lower or higher than our estimates of fair value. We review our investment portfolio for factors that may indicate that a decline in the fair value of an investment is other-than-temporary. This evaluation is based on subjective factors, assumptions and estimates and may prove to be materially incorrect, which may result in us recognizing additional losses in the future as new information emerges or recognizing losses currently that may never materialize in the future in an orderly transaction with a willing market participant.. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all.. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth and our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover our losses. While we have been successful to date in raising the capital necessary to prudently manage our business, future business needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds to further capitalize Maiden Bermuda and Maiden US, or expand our IIS business. We anticipate that any such additional funds would be raised through equity, debt, hybrid financings or entering into retrocession agreements. While we currently have no commitment from any lender with respect to a credit facility or a loan facility, we may enter into an unsecured revolving credit facility or a term loan facility with one or more syndicates of lenders. Any equity, debt or hybrid financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are able to raise capital through equity financings, the interest of shareholders in our Company would be diluted, and the securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common shares.. Since we no longer have an S&P rating, this could impact our ability to obtain additional debt or hybrid capital at reasonable terms. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all.. In addition to company-specific factors, the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of other factors such as market conditions, the general availability of capital, the volume of trading activities and the overall availability of capital to the financial services industry. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter maturity securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We have debt and preference shares outstanding that could adversely affect our financial flexibility.. In connection with the Senior Note Offerings, Maiden NA has issued Senior Notes in the principal amount of $152.5 million all of which is currently outstanding and is subject to a guarantee by Maiden Holdings. Maiden Holdings has issued Senior Notes in the principal amount of $110.0 million, all of which is currently outstanding. Maiden Holdings has also issued $630.0 million in Preference Shares since 2012, of which $465.0 million are outstanding at year-end, the dividends of which are required to be paid before common shareholders are eligible for dividend payments. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. The level of debt outstanding could adversely affect our financial flexibility. Our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including:.  limiting our ability to pay dividends to our common shareholders;.  limiting our subsidiaries to pay dividends;.  increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions;.  limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry;.  limiting our ability to borrow additional funds;.  requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby, reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes; and.  impacting rating agencies and regulators assessment of our capital position, adequacy and flexibility and therefore, the financial strength ratings of rating agencies and regulators assessment of our solvency.. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants contained in the indentures governing our Senior Notes or any future credit facility could trigger prepayment obligations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The indentures governing our Senior Notes contain covenants that impose restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries with respect to, among other things, the incurrence of liens and the disposition of capital stock of these subsidiaries. In addition, any future credit facility may require us and/or certain of our subsidiaries to comply with certain covenants, which may include the maintenance of a minimum consolidated net tangible worth and restrictions on the payment of dividends. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default under the indentures or any future credit facility, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay the notes or any amounts outstanding under such credit facility prior to maturity. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. For more details on our indebtedness, see \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 7. Long-Term Debt\" included under Item 8 \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this Form 10-K.. The Preference Shares are equity and are subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities.. The Preference Shares are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, the Preference Shares will rank junior to all of our indebtedness and other non-equity claims of our creditors with respect to assets available to satisfy the claims during liquidation. At December 31, 2017, our total consolidated debt, net of issuance cost was $254.5 million and our total consolidated liabilities were $5.4 billion. We may incur additional debt and liabilities in the future. Our existing and future indebtedness may. 28. restrict payments of dividends on the Preference Shares. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of preference shares, dividends are payable only if declared by our Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee of the Board).. The availability and cost of security arrangements for reinsurance transactions may materially impact our ability to provide reinsurance from Bermuda to insurers domiciled in the U.S.. Maiden Bermuda is not licensed, approved or accredited as a reinsurer anywhere else in the U.S., except Mexico (approved effective on January 17, 2018 until December 31, 2018), and, therefore, under the terms of most of its contracts with U.S. ceding companies, it is required to provide collateral to its ceding companies for unpaid ceded liabilities, including when our obligations to these ceding companies exceed negotiated amounts, in a form acceptable to state insurance commissioners. Typically, this type of collateral takes the form of letters of credit issued by a bank, the establishment of a trust, or funds withheld. The amount of collateral we are required to provide typically represents a portion of the obligations we may owe the ceding company. Since we may be required to provide collateral based on the ceding company's estimate, we may be obligated to provide collateral that exceeds our estimates of the ultimate liability to the ceding company. It is also unclear what, if any, the impact would be in the event of the liquidation of a ceding company with which we have a collateral arrangement. If these facilities are unavailable, not sufficient or if we are unable to arrange for other types of security on commercially acceptable terms, Maiden Bermuda's ability to provide reinsurance to U.S. based clients may be severely limited. At December 31, 2017, 92.9% of the collateral provided by Maiden Bermuda was in the form of trusts.. We may be adversely impacted by inflation.. Our operations, like those of other property and casualty insurers and reinsurers, are susceptible to the effects of inflation because premiums are established before the ultimate amounts of loss and loss expense are known. Although we consider the potential effects of inflation when setting premium rates, our premiums may not fully offset the effects of inflation and essentially result in our underpricing the risks we insure and reinsure. Our reserve for losses and loss expenses includes assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling expenses, such as the value of replacing property and associated labor costs for the property business we write, the value of medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. A decrease in the fair value of our subsidiaries and/or our intangible assets may result in future impairments.. The determination of impairments taken on our investments, goodwill and other intangible assets and loans varies by type of asset and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, which could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments.. International Operations. Our offices that operate in jurisdictions outside Bermuda and the U.S. are subject to certain limitations and risks that are unique to foreign operations.. Our international operations are regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to licensing requirements, currency, reserves, employees and other matters. International operations may be harmed by political developments in foreign countries, which may be hard to predict in advance. Regulations governing technical reserves and remittance balances in some countries may hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of assets.. Foreign currency fluctuations may reduce our net income and our capital levels adversely affecting our financial condition.. We conduct business in a variety of non-U.S. currencies, the principal exposures being the euro, the British pound, the Canadian dollar and the Swedish krona. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to changes in currency exchange rates. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, and exchange rate fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar may materially impact our results of operations and financial position. Our principal exposure to foreign currency risk is our obligation to settle claims in foreign currencies. In addition, we maintain and expect to continue to maintain a portion of our investment portfolio in investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. While the Company may be able to match its foreign currency denominated assets against its net reinsurance liabilities both by currency and duration to protect the Company against foreign exchange and interest rate risks, a natural offset does not exist for all currencies.. We may employ various strategies (including hedging) to manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. To the extent that these exposures are not fully hedged or the hedges are ineffective, our results or equity may be reduced by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2017, no such hedges or hedging strategies were in force or had been entered into.. If the European common currency, the euro, were to be devalued, undergo structural changes or in an extreme scenario collapse, in its participating countries or the basis on which they participate, we could be impacted, potentially significantly by the subsequent effects of such a circumstance.. We conduct business in countries in which the euro is the local currency. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars and use widely reported exchange rates to convert this currency into U.S. dollars. Countries whose currency is the euro have experienced significant economic uncertainty in recent years, which continues through the present time. These circumstances are the cumulative. 29. result of the effect of excessive sovereign debt, deficits by numerous participating countries in the euro, uncertainty regarding the monetary policies of the EU and their underlying funding mechanisms and poor economic growth and prospects for the EU as a whole.. While economic policy measures and commitments have stabilized the currency's volatility, the EU's fiscal outlook remains negative, and permanent solutions to resolve these issues by participating countries and other institutions to stabilize the EU and improve its economic outlook have not been resolved.. Irrespective of the ultimate future of the currency, the impact of these efforts may cause a further deterioration in the value of the euro and consequently exacerbate instability in global credit markets, and increase credit concerns resulting in the widening of bond yield spreads. The impact of these developments, while potentially severe, remains extremely difficult to predict. However, should European governments default on their obligations, there will be a negative impact on government and non-government issued bonds, government guaranteed corporate bonds and bonds and equities issued by financial institutions and held within the country of default which in turn could adversely impact euro-denominated assets held in our investment portfolio.. For the year ended December 31, 2017 and as at December 31, 2017, 7.5% of our net premiums written and 9.3% of our reserve for loss and LAE is euro denominated, respectively. At December 31, 2017 our fixed income portfolio contains: (1) $22.7 million of euro-denominated non-U.S. government and supranational bonds, which constitute 0.4% of the fixed income portfolio; and (2) $376.0 million of euro-denominated corporate bonds, which constitutes 7.3% of the fixed income portfolio. Of the euro-denominated non-U.S. government bonds, 52.0% were from the State of Israel. We hold no sovereign bonds of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal or Spain.. Regulation. Compliance by our insurance subsidiaries with the legal and regulatory requirements to which they are subject is expensive. Any failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our insurance subsidiaries are required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies, both in the jurisdictions in which they are organized and where they sell their insurance and reinsurance products. The insurance and regulatory environment, in particular for offshore insurance and reinsurance companies, has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the U.S., various states within the U.S. and the EU. In the past, there have been Congressional and other initiatives in the U.S. regarding increased supervision and regulation of the insurance industry. It is not possible to predict the future impact of changes in laws and regulations on our operations. The cost of complying with any new legal requirements affecting our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In addition, our subsidiaries may not always be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations. They also may not be able to fully comply with, or to obtain appropriate exemptions from, the laws and regulations applicable to them. Any failure to comply with applicable law or to obtain appropriate exemptions could result in restrictions on either the ability of the company in question, as well as potentially its affiliates, to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which they operate or on brokers on which we rely to produce business for us. In addition, any such failure to comply with applicable laws or to obtain appropriate exemptions could result in the imposition of fines or other sanctions. Any of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business. To date, no fine, penalty or restriction has been imposed on us for failure to comply with any insurance law or regulation.. Insurance statutes and regulations in jurisdictions outside and inside the U.S. could affect our profitability and restrict our ability to operate.. Maiden Bermuda is licensed as a Bermuda insurance company and is subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. The applicable Bermuda statutes and regulations generally are designed to protect insureds and ceding insurance companies, not our shareholders. Nevertheless, we expect that a large portion of the gross premiums written by Maiden Bermuda will be derived from (1) the Reinsurance Agreement with AII, and (2) from reinsurance contracts entered into with entities mostly domiciled in the U.S. and Europe. Inquiries into or challenges to the insurance activities of Maiden Bermuda may still be raised by U.S. or European insurance regulators in the future.. In addition, even if Maiden Bermuda, as a reinsurer, is not directly regulated by applicable laws and regulations governing insurance in the jurisdictions where its ceding companies operate, these laws and regulations, and changes in them, can affect the profitability of the business that is ceded to Maiden Bermuda, and thereby affect our results of operations. The laws and regulations applicable to direct insurers could indirectly affect us in other ways as well, such as collateral requirements in various U.S. states to enable such insurers to receive credit for reinsurance ceded to us.. In the past, there have been Congressional and other proposals in the U.S. regarding increased supervision and regulation of the insurance industry, including proposals to supervise and regulate reinsurers domiciled outside the U.S. Our exposure to potential regulatory initiatives could be heightened by the fact that Maiden Bermuda is intended to be domiciled in, and operate exclusively from, Bermuda. Bermuda is a small jurisdiction and may be disadvantaged when participating in global or cross-border regulatory matters compared with larger jurisdictions such as the U.S. or the leading EU countries.. If Maiden Bermuda were to become subject to any insurance laws and regulations of the U.S. or any U.S. state, which are generally more restrictive than Bermuda laws and regulations, at any time in the future, it might be required to post deposits or maintain minimum surplus levels and might be prohibited from engaging in lines of business or from writing specified types of policies or contracts. Complying with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our financial condition and results of operations.. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework in the U.S. has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance and reinsurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the NAIC and state insurance regulators are re-examining existing laws and. 30. regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. Any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may be more restrictive than current regulatory requirements or may result in higher costs.. The BMA utilizes risk-based capital standards for insurance companies as a tool to assist the BMA both in measuring risk and in determining appropriate levels of capitalization. The amended Bermuda insurance statutes and regulations pursuant to the new risk-based supervisory approach required additional filings by insurers to be made to the BMA. The required statutory capital and surplus of our Bermuda-based operating subsidiary increased under the BSCR. While our Bermuda-based operating subsidiary currently has adequate capital and surplus under these new requirements, there can be no assurance that such requirement or similar regulations, in their current form or as may be amended in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The statutory credit afforded to certain aspects of our capital may change in the future.. The components of our capital fall within various categories under Bermuda's and other regulatory capital regimes, including Solvency II in Europe. Each of these categories is afforded different treatment and this treatment may change in the future. For example, the BMA has determined that our outstanding senior notes constitute Tier 2 capital through January 1, 2026 and our Series D Preference Shares constitute Tier 3 through January 1, 2026. Subsequent to that date in Bermuda, or at any time under another regulatory capital regime, these notes may not meet the requirements necessary to qualify as Tier 2 capital. It is possible also that the BMA's regulatory capital framework will be amended or replaced in the future and there is no assurance that the notes will continue to qualify as Tier 2 Capital or basic own funds under any amended or replacement framework. If any of our capital fails to receive the treatment it does today, we may be required to raise additional capital that would be afforded the necessary treatment under the applicable regulatory capital regime. Any such capital raised would be subject to market and other conditions, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to raise such capital when needed.. Europe. Within the EU, the EU Reinsurance Directive of November 2005 (the \"Directive\") was adopted. Member states of the EU (\"Member States\") and the European Economic Area (\"EEA\") were required to implement this by December 2007, however, several Member States were late in the implementation of the Directive and, in a few cases, further legislation is still necessary. The Directive requires member countries to lift barriers to trade within the EU for companies that are domiciled in an EU country, therefore, allowing reinsurers established in the EU to provide services to all EEA states. As a result, Maiden LF, being established in Sweden and regulated by the Swedish Finansinspektionen (\"Swedish FSA\"), is able, subject to regulatory notifications and there being no objection from the Swedish FSA and the Member States concerned, to provide insurance and reinsurance services in all EEA Member States.The Directive also does not prohibit EEA insurers from obtaining reinsurance from reinsurers licensed outside the EEA. As such, and subject to the specific rules in particular Member States, Maiden Bermuda may do business from Bermuda with insurers in EEA Member States, but it may not directly operate its reinsurance business within the EEA. Currently, each individual EEA Member State may impose conditions on reinsurance provided by Bermuda based reinsurers which could restrict their future provision of reinsurance to the EEA Member State concerned. A number of EEA Member States currently restrict the extent to which Bermudian reinsurers may promote their services in those Member States, and a few have certain prohibitions on the purchase of insurance from reinsurers not authorized in the EEA.. Solvency II was adopted by the European Parliament in April of 2009. The EU's executive body, the European Commission (\"EC\") approved implementation of Solvency II with an effective start date of January 1, 2016. Solvency II is a principles-based regulatory regime which seeks to promote financial stability, enhance transparency and facilitate harmonization among insurance and reinsurance companies within the EU. Solvency II employs a risk-based approach to setting capital requirements for insurers and reinsurers. The Solvency II directive proposes that EU and non-EU reinsurers shall be treated in the same way provided that the non-EU jurisdiction is found to have a regulatory regime \"equivalence\" to that of Solvency II. Our reinsurance subsidiaries are headquartered in non-EU countries. If the regulatory regimes of such countries are found not to be equivalent to that of Solvency II and if our reinsurance subsidiaries fall below a certain minimum credit rating, then cedants in the EU may be prevented from recognizing the reinsurance provided to them by our reinsurance subsidiaries for the purpose of meeting their capital requirements or we may be required to provide additional collateral for our obligations to EU insurers. On November 26, 2015, the EC assessed the regulatory regime in Bermuda as being fully equivalent to Solvency II which was subsequently confirmed following a three month review period by the EC.. United States. In the U.S., licensed reinsurers are highly regulated and must comply with financial supervision standards comparable to those governing primary insurers. For additional discussion of the regulatory requirements to which Maiden Holdings, as a holding company, and its subsidiaries are subject, see Item 1 \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters\" in this Form 10-K. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, these statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to write new business or, as indicated below, distribute funds to Maiden Holdings. In recent years, some U.S. state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC and state insurance regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations and interpretations of existing laws and develop new laws. The new interpretations or laws may be more restrictive or may result in higher costs to us than current statutory requirements.. In addition, the federal government has undertaken initiatives, including Dodd-Frank, in several areas that may impact the reinsurance industry, including tort reform, corporate governance and the taxation of reinsurance companies. Dodd-Frank became effective on July 21, 2011. In addition to introducing sweeping reform of the U.S. financial services industry, Dodd-Frank has changed the regulation of reinsurance in the U.S. Dodd-Frank prohibits a state from denying credit for reinsurance if the state of domicile of the insurer purchasing the reinsurance recognizes credit for reinsurance. At present, it appears the changes specific to. 31. reinsurance in Dodd-Frank will not have a material adverse effect for non-U.S. reinsurers such as us, however, there is still significant uncertainty as to how these and other provisions of Dodd-Frank will be implemented in practice.. Applicable insurance laws regarding the change of control of insurance companies may limit the acquisition of our shares.. Under Bermuda law, for so long as Maiden Holdings has an insurance subsidiary registered under the Insurance Act, the BMA may at any time, by written notice, object to a person holding 10% or more of its common shares if it appears to the BMA that the person is not or is no longer fit and proper to be such a holder. In such a case, the BMA may require the shareholder to reduce its holding of common shares in Maiden Holdings and direct, among other things, that such shareholder's voting rights attaching to the common shares shall not be exercisable. A person who does not comply with such a notice or direction from the BMA will be guilty of an offense and shall be liable if convicted on indictment, to a fine of $0.1 million and/or two years in prison. In addition, a person holding 10% or more of the company's common shares is not permitted to reduce or dispose of its holdings such that the proportion of the voting rights held by the shareholder will reach or fall below 10%, 20%, 33% or 50%, as the case may be, unless that shareholder has served on the BMA a notice in writing that it intends to do so. A person who has reduced or disposed of his holding in the company, where the proportion of the voting rights held by him will have reached or has fallen below 10%, 20%, 33% or 50%, as the case may be, without notifying the BMA of their intention to do so will be guilty of an offense. This may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our Company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable.. In addition to the foregoing, we are subject to U.S. state statutes governing insurance holding companies, which generally require that any person or entity desiring to acquire direct or indirect control of any of our U.S. insurance company subsidiaries obtain prior regulatory approval. \"Control\" is generally defined as the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the company, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract (except a commercial contract for goods or non-management services) or otherwise. Under the laws of most U.S. states, any beneficial owner of 10% or more of the outstanding voting securities of an insurance company or its holding company is presumed to have acquired control, unless this presumption is rebutted. These laws may also discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our Company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable.. Any person having a shareholding of 10% or more of the issued share capital in Maiden Holdings would be considered to have an indirect holding in our U.S. insurance subsidiaries at or over the 10% limit. Any change that resulted in the indirect acquisition or disposal of a shareholding of greater than or equal to 10% in the share capital of Maiden Holdings may require approval of the relevant U.S. state insurance regulators prior to the transaction.. Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements could result in material changes to our reported results of operations and financial condition.. U.S. GAAP and related financial reporting requirements are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by the relevant authoritative bodies. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Changes in U.S. GAAP and financial reporting requirements, or in the interpretation of U.S. GAAP or those requirements, could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition.. Employee Issues. We are dependent on our key executives. We may not be able to attract and retain key employees or successfully integrate our new management team to fully implement our newly formulated business strategy.. Our success depends largely on our senior management, which includes, among others, Arturo M. Raschbaum, our President and CEO, Karen L. Schmitt, our CFO, Thomas H. Highet, our President of Maiden US, Patrick J. Haveron, our Executive Vice President and President of Maiden Bermuda, and Lawrence F. Metz, our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. We have entered into employment agreements with each of these executive officers, as well as other key employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional personnel or the loss of the services of any of our senior executives or key employees could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy and could significantly and negatively affect our business.. Our business in Bermuda could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions.. Currently, we employ eighteen non-Bermudians in our Bermuda office including our President and CEO, our CFO, Maiden Bermuda's President and Maiden Bermuda's Chief Underwriting Officer. We may hire additional non-Bermudians as our business grows. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians, holders of permanent residents' certificates and holders of working residents' certificates) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without a valid government work permit. A work permit may be granted or renewed upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian, spouse of a Bermudian, or holder of a permanent resident's or working resident's certificate who meets the minimum standards reasonably required by the employer has applied for the job. Work permits are issued with expiry dates that range from one, three, five, six or, in certain circumstances for key executives, ten years. We may not be able to use the services of one or more of our non-Bermudian employees if we are not able to obtain work permits for them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Corporate Governance. Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments.. Maiden Holdings is a holding company. As a result, we do not have, and will not have, any significant operations or assets other than our ownership of the shares of our subsidiaries.. 32. We expect that dividends and other permitted distributions from Maiden Bermuda, Maiden Global (and its subsidiaries), Maiden LF and Maiden NA (and its subsidiaries) will be our sole source of funds to pay dividends to common and preference shareholders and meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments, if any, and other expenses. The inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that will affect our ability to pay dividends on our shares and make other payments. Under the Companies Act, we may declare or pay a dividend out of distributable reserves only if we have reasonable grounds for believing that we are, or would after the payment be, able to pay our liabilities as they become due and if the realizable value of our assets would thereby not be less than our liabilities.. The timing and amount of any cash dividends on our common shares are at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon result of operations and cash flows, our financial position and capital requirements, and any other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant.. A few significant shareholders may influence or control the direction of our business. If the ownership of our common shares continues to be highly concentrated, it may limit your ability and the ability of other shareholders to influence significant corporate decisions.. The interests of our Founding Shareholders may not be fully aligned with our interests, and this may lead to a strategy that is not in our best interest. Although they do not have any voting agreements or arrangements, our Founding Shareholders could exercise significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, and their concentrated holdings may delay or deter possible changes in control of Maiden Holdings, which may reduce the market price of our common shares.. Dividends on the Series A, Series C and Series D Preference Shares are non-cumulative.. Dividends on the Series A, Series C and Series D Preference Shares are non-cumulative and payable only out of lawfully available funds of Maiden Holdings under Bermuda law. Consequently, if our Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee of the Board) does not authorize and declare a dividend for any dividend period with respect to the Series A, Series C and Series D Preference Shares, holders of the Series A, Series C and Series D Preference Shares would not be entitled to receive any such dividend, and such unpaid dividend will not accumulate and will never be payable. We will have no obligation to pay dividends for a dividend period on or after the dividend payment date for such period if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee of the Board) has not declared such dividend before the related dividend payment date. If dividends on the Series A, Series C and Series D Preference Shares are authorized and declared with respect to any subsequent dividend period, we will be free to pay dividends on any other series of preference shares and/or our common shares.. Under Bermuda law, we will not be permitted to pay dividends on the Preference Shares (even if such dividends have been previously declared) if there are reasonable grounds for believing that we are, or would after the payment be, unable to pay our liabilities as they become due; or the realizable value of our assets would thereby be less than our liabilities or that we are or would after such payment be in breach of the Insurance Act, Insurance (Prudential Standards) Class 4 and Class 3B Solvency Requirement Rules 2008, the Insurance (Prudential Standards) (Insurance Group Solvency Requirement) Rules 2011, including the enhanced capital requirement or the group enhanced capital requirement contained within such rules or under such other applicable rules and regulations as may from time to time be issued by the BMA (or any successor agency or then-applicable regulatory authority) pursuant to the terms of the Insurance Act, or any successor legislation.. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of factors beyond our control, which may cause the price of our shares to be volatile.. The revenues and results of operations of reinsurance companies historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by:.  fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment that affect returns on invested assets;.  changes in the frequency or severity of claims;.  volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks;.  price competition;.  inadequate loss and LAE reserves;.  cyclical nature of the property and casualty insurance market;.  negative developments in the specialty property and casualty reinsurance sectors in which we operate; and.  reduction in the business activities of AmTrust or any of our ceding insurers.. These factors may cause the price of the Company's shares to be volatile.. Future sales of shares may adversely affect their price.. Future sales of our common shares by our shareholders or us, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. As of February 20, 2018, 83,007,351 common shares were outstanding. In addition, we have reserved 10,000,000 common shares for issuance under our Amended and Restated 2007 Share Incentive Plan. As of February 20, 2018, the total options outstanding was 1,512,269. Sales of substantial amounts of our shares, or the perception that. 33. such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing price of the shares and may make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future, or for shareholders to sell their shares, at a time and price that they deem appropriate.. Provisions in our bye-laws may reduce or increase the voting rights of our shares.. In general, and except as provided under our bye-laws and as provided below, the common shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders. However, if, and so long as, the shares of a shareholder are treated as \"controlled shares\" (as determined pursuant to Sections 957 and 958 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"IRS Code\")) of any U.S. Person (as that term is defined in the risk factors under the section captioned \"Taxation\" within this Item on page 37 that owns shares directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) and such controlled shares constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by our issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares owned by such U.S. Person will be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5%, under a formula specified in our bye-laws. The formula is applied repeatedly until the voting power of all 9.5% U.S. Shareholders has been reduced to less than 9.5%. In addition, our board may limit a shareholder's voting rights when it deems it appropriate to do so to (i) avoid the existence of any 9.5% U.S. Shareholder; and (ii) avoid certain material adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us, to any of our subsidiaries or any direct or indirect shareholder or its affiliates. \"Controlled shares\" include, among other things, all shares that a U.S. Person is deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the IRS Code). The amount of any reduction of votes that occurs by operation of the above limitations will generally be reallocated proportionately among our other shareholders whose shares were not \"controlled shares\" of the 9.5% U.S. Shareholder so long as such reallocation does not cause any person to become a 9.5% U.S. Shareholder.. Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.5% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership.. We are authorized under our bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder's voting rights are to be reallocated under the bye-laws. If any holder fails to respond to this request or submits incomplete or inaccurate information, we may, in our sole discretion, eliminate or adjust the shareholder's voting rights.. Anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our common shares.. Our bye-laws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future.. Examples of provisions in our bye-laws that could have such an effect include the following:.  our Board of Directors may reduce the total voting power of any shareholder in order to avoid adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us or any direct or indirect holder of our shares or its affiliates; and.  our Directors may, in their discretion, decline to record the transfer of any common shares on our share register, if they are not satisfied that all required regulatory approvals for such transfer have been obtained or if they determine such transfer may result in a non-de minimis adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequence to us or any direct or indirect holder of shares or its affiliates.. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us.. Provisions of our organizational documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, amalgamation, tender offer or other change of control that holders of our shares may consider favorable. These provisions impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect various corporate actions. These provisions could:.  have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us;.  discourage bids for our securities at a premium over the market price;.  adversely affect the price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of our securities; or.  impede the ability of the holders of our securities to change our management.. In addition, AII, AEL and AIUL are entitled to terminate their quota share agreements if we undergo a change in control. Because we expect the business we reinsure from AmTrust to constitute a substantial portion of our business, this termination right may deter parties who are interested in acquiring us, may prevent shareholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our common shares and may depress the price of our common shares below levels that might otherwise prevail.. U.S. persons who own our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation.. The Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. As a result of these differences, U.S. persons who own our shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than U.S. persons who own shares of a U.S. corporation. Set forth below is a summary of certain significant provisions of the Companies Act, including modifications adopted pursuant to our bye-laws, applicable to us which differ in certain respects from provisions of Delaware corporate law. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders.. 34. Interested Directors. Bermuda law provides that if a director has a personal interest in a transaction to which the company is also a party and if the director discloses the nature of this personal interest at the first opportunity, either at a meeting of directors or in writing to the directors, then the company will not be able to declare the transaction void solely due to the existence of that personal interest and the director will not be liable to the company for any profit realized from the transaction. In addition, Bermuda law and our bye-laws provide that, after a director has made the declaration of interest referred to above, he is allowed to be counted for purposes of determining whether a quorum is present and to vote on a transaction in which he has an interest, unless disqualified from doing so by the chairman of the relevant board meeting. Under Delaware law such transaction would not be voidable if:.  the material facts as to such interested director's relationship or interests are disclosed or are known to the board of directors and the board in good faith authorizes the transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors;.  such material facts are disclosed or are known to the shareholders entitled;.  to vote on such transaction and the transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the majority of shares entitled to vote thereon; or.  the transaction is fair as to the corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified.. Under Delaware law, such interested director could be held liable for a transaction in which such director derived an improper personal benefit.. Mergers and Similar Arrangements. The amalgamation or merger of a Bermuda company with another company or corporation (other than certain affiliated companies) requires the amalgamation agreement to be approved by the company's board of directors and by its shareholders. Under our bye-laws, we may, with the approval of a majority of votes cast at a general meeting of our shareholders at which a quorum is present, amalgamate or merge with another Bermuda company or with a body incorporated outside Bermuda. In the case of an amalgamation or merger, a shareholder may apply to a Bermuda court for a proper valuation of such shareholder's shares if such shareholder is not satisfied that fair value has been paid for such shares. Under Delaware law, with certain exceptions, a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all the assets of a corporation must be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. Under Delaware law, a shareholder of a corporation participating in certain major corporate transactions may, under certain circumstances, be entitled to appraisal rights pursuant to which such shareholder may receive cash in the amount of the fair value of the shares held by such shareholder (as determined by a court) in lieu of the consideration such shareholder would otherwise receive in the transaction.. Shareholders' Suit. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in many U.S. jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of the company to remedy a wrong done to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company, is illegal or would result in the violation of our memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The winning party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys' fees incurred in connection with such action. Our bye-laws provide that shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in the right of the company, against any director or officer for any act or failure to act in the performance of such director's or officer's duties, except with respect to any fraud or dishonesty of such director or officer. Class actions and derivative actions generally are available to shareholders under Delaware law for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys' fees incurred in connection with such action.. Indemnification of Directors. We may indemnify our directors or officers in their capacity as directors or officers of any loss arising or liability attaching to them by virtue of any rule of law in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to the company other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty. Under Delaware law, a corporation may indemnify a director or officer of the corporation against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in defense of an action, suit or proceeding by reason of such position if such director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such director or officer had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and officers.. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers.. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, most of our directors and officers reside outside Bermuda and a substantial portion of our assets will be and the assets of these persons are, and will continue to be, located in jurisdictions outside Bermuda. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the U.S. upon us or those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law.. We have been previously advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman Limited, our Bermuda counsel, that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers, as well. 35. as the experts named in this Report, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or original actions brought in Bermuda against us or these persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman Limited that there is no treaty in effect between the U.S. and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to that jurisdiction's public policy. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon such judgments.. Relationship with AmTrust. We are dependent on AmTrust and its subsidiaries for a substantial portion of our business.. AmTrust is Maiden's largest client relationship and we will continue to derive a substantial portion of our business from AmTrust in the near term. For the year ended December 31, 2017, 70.8% of the consolidated gross premiums written by the Company were from AmTrust. We commenced our reinsurance business by providing traditional quota share reinsurance to AmTrust through the Reinsurance Agreement with AmTrust's Bermuda reinsurance subsidiary, AII, assuming initially a 40% quota share portion of the net liabilities less recoveries of certain lines of business that existed on the effective date. In 2011, we provided additional quota share reinsurance through the European Hospital Liability Quota Share which is a separate one-year, renewable, 40% quota share agreement with AEL and AIUL. The European Hospital Liability Quota Share covers those entities' medical liability business in Europe, all of which is in Italy and France at the present time.. We are still dependent, however, on AmTrust and its subsidiaries for a substantial portion of our business and underwriting income. Our Reinsurance Agreement with AII has been renewed for an additional three years (until July 1, 2019), subject to certain early termination provisions (including if the A.M. Best rating of Maiden Bermuda is reduced below \"A-\"). The Reinsurance Agreement will be extended for additional terms of three years unless either party elects not to renew. There is no assurance that this agreement will not terminate. The termination of the Reinsurance Agreement would significantly reduce our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on us.. At the same time, there are risks related to the business of AmTrust and its insurance subsidiaries that may adversely impact our ability to continue doing business with them. In addition, we are not able to control the types or amounts of reinsurance AmTrust purchases from unaffiliated reinsurers, and any changes AmTrust makes to such reinsurance may affect our profitability and ability to write additional business.. Our initial arrangements with AmTrust were negotiated while we were its affiliate. The arrangements could be challenged as not reflecting terms that we would agree to in arm's-length negotiations with an independent third party; moreover, our business relationship with AmTrust and its subsidiaries may present, and may make us vulnerable to, possible adverse tax consequences, difficult conflicts of interest, and legal claims that we have not acted in the best interest of our shareholders.. We entered into a quota share agreement with AII, which reinsures AmTrust's insurance company subsidiaries, and a Master Agreement with AmTrust, pursuant to which Maiden Bermuda entered into the quota share agreement. Because (i) Leah Karfunkel (wife of Michael Karfunkel), George Karfunkel and Barry Zyskind (the Company's non-executive chairman) collectively own or control approximately 42.7% of the outstanding common shares of AmTrust, (ii) our Founding Shareholders sponsored our formation, and (iii) based on each individual's most recent public filing as of December 31, 2017, Leah Karfunkel owns or controls approximately 8.2% of the outstanding shares of the Company and Barry Zyskind owns or controls approximately 7.7% of the outstanding shares of the Company (George Karfunkel now owns or controls less than 5.0% of the outstanding shares of the Company so there is no longer a public filing requirement); we, therefore, may be deemed an affiliate of AmTrust. Due to our close business relationship with AmTrust, we may be presented with situations involving conflicts of interest with respect to the agreements and other arrangements we will enter into with AmTrust and its subsidiaries, exposing us to possible claims that we have not acted in the best interest of our shareholders. The arrangements between us and AmTrust were modified somewhat after they were originally entered into and there could be future modifications.. Our non-executive Chairman of the Board currently holds the positions of President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of AmTrust, These dual positions may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest and related legal challenges.. Barry Zyskind, our non-executive Chairman of the Board, is the President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of AmTrust and, as such, he does not serve our Company on a full-time basis. Mr. Zyskind is expected to continue in both of his positions for the foreseeable future. Conflicts of interest could arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to AmTrust or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or our subsidiary, on the other hand. In addition, potential conflicts of interest may arise should the interests of Maiden Holdings and AmTrust diverge. As AmTrust is currently our largest customer, after being our only significant customer until November 2008, and is also expected to remain our largest customer for at least the next several years, AmTrust could have the ability to significantly influence such situations. However, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, which consists entirely of independent directors, does review and approve all related party transactions.. Collateral has been provided to AmTrust, AII and AEL in the form of trusts, letters of credit and a loan.. As a result of our use of trust accounts, letters of credit and a loan, a substantial portion of our assets will not be available to us for other uses, which could reduce our financial flexibility. If further collateral is required to be provided to any other AmTrust insurance company subsidiaries under applicable law or regulatory requirements, Maiden Bermuda will provide collateral to the extent required. At December 31, 2017, $3.8 billion was provided as collateral to AmTrust, AII and AEL in the form of trusts, letters of credit and a loan.. Maiden Bermuda is not a party to the reinsurance agreements between AII and AmTrust's U.S. insurance subsidiaries or the related reinsurance trust agreements and has no rights thereunder. If one or more of these AmTrust subsidiaries withdraws Maiden Bermuda's assets from their trust account or misapplies withheld funds that are due to Maiden Bermuda and that subsidiary is or. 36. becomes insolvent, we believe it may be more difficult for Maiden Bermuda to recover any such amounts to which we are entitled than it would be if Maiden Bermuda had entered into reinsurance and trust agreements with these AmTrust subsidiaries directly. AII has agreed to immediately return to Maiden Bermuda any collateral provided by Maiden Bermuda that one of those subsidiaries improperly utilizes or retains, and AmTrust has agreed to guarantee AII's repayment obligation and AII's payment obligations under its loan agreement with Maiden Bermuda. We are subject to the risk that AII and/or AmTrust may be unable or unwilling to discharge these obligations. In addition, if AII experiences a change in control and Maiden Bermuda chooses not to terminate the Reinsurance Agreement, AmTrust's guarantee obligations will terminate immediately and automatically.. We will not be able to control AmTrust's decisions relating to its other reinsurance, and AmTrust may change its reinsurance in ways that could adversely affect us.. The reinsurance ceded by AmTrust is net of any reinsurance that AmTrust obtains from unaffiliated reinsurers. For example, Maiden Bermuda will receive 40% of AmTrust's premiums net of reinsurance with unaffiliated reinsurers relating to certain lines of business that existed on the effective date and will be liable for 40% of loss and LAE on these certain lines of ceded business net of any reinsurance recoverable (whether collectible or not) from unaffiliated reinsurers. We are not able to control the types or amounts of reinsurance that AmTrust purchases from unaffiliated reinsurers. If AmTrust chose to purchase additional reinsurance from unaffiliated reinsurers, AmTrust would reduce the premium revenue ceded to us. The purchase of such additional reinsurance would, however, in general inure to our benefit.. Taxation. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results and on an investment in our shares.. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given each of Maiden Holdings and Maiden Bermuda an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Maiden Holdings, Maiden Bermuda or any of their respective operations or their respective shares, debentures or other obligations (except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by them in respect of real property or leasehold interests in Bermuda held by them) until March 31, 2035. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance's expected assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035. Since Maiden Holdings and Maiden Bermuda are incorporated in Bermuda, we will be subject to changes in law or regulation in Bermuda that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including imposition of tax liability.. The financial results of our operations may be affected by measures taken in relation to Bermuda in response to the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (\"BEPS\") project.. The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialog among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of jurisdictions perceived by the OECD to be tax havens or offering preferential tax regimes. The OECD has not listed Bermuda as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because Bermuda has committed to eliminating harmful tax practices and to embracing international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. In addition, in 2015, the OECD published its final series of BEPS reports related to its attempt to coordinate multilateral action on international tax rules. The proposed actions include an examination of the definition of a \"permanent establishment\" and the rules for attributing profit to a permanent establishment. One of these reports covers \"country-by-country\" reporting, which calls for the provision, at a country-specific level, of information such as affiliate and non-affiliate revenues, profit or loss before tax, income taxes paid and accrued, capital, number of employees and tangible assets. It is expected that some countries, including some EU countries, would deem a failure to implement country-by-country reporting to be sufficient rationale to place another country on a \"black-list\", thus potentially restricting in some way business between the two countries. Bermuda has agreed to implement country-by-country reporting in 2016 for 2017 reporting. The implementation and ongoing requirements of country-by-country reporting will require significant management time and resources. Although we believe Bermuda's agreement to implement country-by-country reporting has reduced the likelihood that Bermuda would appear on a \"black-list\", some uncertainty remains. Any changes in the tax law of an OECD member state in response to the BEPS reports and recommendations could subject us to additional taxes.. Our operations may be affected by the introduction of an EU financial transaction tax (\"FTT\").. On February 14, 2013, the EU Commission published a proposal for a Directive for a common FTT in those EU Member States which choose to participate (''the FTT Zone\"), currently Belgium, Germany, Greece, Spain, France, Italy, Austria, Portugal, Slovenia and Slovakia. Currently this proposal is on hold pending the final outcome of the Brexit negotiations.. The proposed FTT has broad scope and would apply to financial transactions where at least one party to the transaction is established in the FTT Zone and either that party or another party is a financial institution established in the FTT Zone. \"Financial institution\" covers a wide range of entities, including insurance and reinsurance undertakings. \"Financial transaction\" includes the sale and purchase of a financial instrument, a transfer of risk associated with a financial instrument and the conclusion or modification of a derivative. The proposed minimum rate of tax is 0.1% of the consideration, or 0.01% of the notional amount in relation to a derivative. A financial institution may be deemed to be \"established\" in the FTT Zone even if it has no business presence there, if the underlying financial instrument is issued in the FTT Zone.. The FTT proposal remains subject to negotiation between the participating EU Member States. It may therefore be altered prior to any implementation, the timing of which remains unclear. The introduction of FTT in this or similar form could have an adverse effect on the Company's economic performance.. 37. We may be subject to U.S. federal income tax, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on an investment in our shares.. If either Maiden Holdings or Maiden Bermuda were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., it could be subject to U.S. federal income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings that are effectively connected to such U.S. business or in the case of Maiden Bermuda, if it is entitled to benefits under the U.S. income tax treaty with Bermuda and if Maiden Bermuda were considered engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. through a permanent establishment, Maiden Bermuda could be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the portion of its earnings that are attributable to its permanent establishment in the U.S., in which case its results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Maiden Holdings and Maiden Bermuda are Bermuda companies. We intend to manage our business so that each of these companies should operate in such a manner that neither of these companies should be treated as engaged in a U.S. trade or business and, thus, should not be subject to U.S. federal taxation (other than the U.S. federal excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. federal withholding tax on certain U.S. source investment income). However, because (i) there is considerable uncertainty as to activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the U.S.; (ii) a significant portion of Maiden Bermuda's business is reinsurance of AmTrust's insurance subsidiaries; (iii) our non-executive Chairman of the Board is AmTrust's President and Chief Executive Officer, and one of our directors is related to a significant shareholder of AmTrust; (iv) the family of one of our Founding Shareholders, Michael Karfunkel, controls NGHC, and (v) we have an asset management agreement with a subsidiary of AmTrust and may also have additional contractual relationships with AmTrust and its subsidiaries in the future, we cannot be certain that the IRS will not contend successfully that we are engaged in a trade or business in the U.S.. U.S. Persons who hold our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at ordinary income rates on their proportionate share of Maiden Bermuda's related person insurance income.. If U.S. persons are treated as owning 25% or more of Maiden Bermuda's shares (by vote or by value) (as is expected to be the case) and the RPII of Maiden Bermuda (determined on a gross basis) were to equal or exceed 20% of Maiden Bermuda's gross insurance income in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to those insureds) own directly or indirectly through entities 20% or more of the voting power or value of our shares, then a U.S. Person who owns any shares of Maiden Bermuda (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such person's pro rata share of Maiden Bermuda's RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. Persons at that date, regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization generally will be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of RPII earned by Maiden Bermuda (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of shares or any person related to such holder) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by Maiden Bermuda.. At December 31, 2017, we believe that either (i) the direct or indirect insureds of Maiden Bermuda (and related persons) should not directly or indirectly own 20% or more of either the voting power or value of our shares or (ii) the RPII (determined on a gross basis) of Maiden Bermuda should not equal or exceed 20% of Maiden Bermuda's gross insurance income for the taxable year ended December 31, 2017 and we do not expect both of these thresholds to be exceeded in the foreseeable future. However, we cannot be certain that this will be the case because some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII may be beyond our control.. U.S. Persons who dispose of our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at the rates applicable to dividends on a portion of their gains if any.. The RPII rules provide that if a U.S. Person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. insurance corporation in which U.S. Persons own 25% or more of the shares (even if the amount of gross RPII is less than 20% of the corporation's gross insurance income and the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold), any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder's share of the corporation's undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a holder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the holder. These RPII rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because Maiden Holdings will not be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII provisions, however, have never been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department in final regulations, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of the RPII rules by the IRS, the courts, or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. The U.S. Treasury Department has authority to impose, among other things, additional reporting requirements with respect to RPII. Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and the application thereof to Maiden Holdings and Maiden Bermuda is uncertain.. U.S. Persons who hold our shares will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences if Maiden Holdings is considered to be a passive foreign investment company.. If Maiden Holdings is considered a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. Person who owns directly or, in some cases, indirectly (e.g. through a non-U.S. partnership) any of our shares will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to a tax on amounts in advance of when such tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case your investment could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if Maiden Holdings were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning our shares, such individual's heirs or estate would not be entitled to a \"step-up\" in the basis of the shares which might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. We believe that we are not, and we currently do not expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes; however, there can be no assurance that we will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS. There are currently only proposed regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance. 38. company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on a shareholder that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation.. U.S. Persons who hold 10% or more of Maiden Holdings' shares directly or through foreign entities may be subject to taxation under the U.S. CFC rules.. Each 10% U.S. shareholder of a foreign corporation that is a CFC at any time during a taxable year that owns shares in the foreign corporation directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the foreign corporation's taxable year during which it is a CFC must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC's \"subpart F income,\" even if the subpart F income is not distributed. In addition, upon a sale of shares of a CFC, certain 10% U.S. shareholders may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a portion of their gain at ordinary income rates.. The Company believes that because of the dispersion of the share ownership in Maiden Holdings,  no U.S. Person who owns Maiden Holdings' shares directly or indirectly through foreign entities should be treated as a 10% U.S. shareholder of Maiden Holdings or of any of its foreign subsidiaries. However, Maiden Holdings' shares may not be as widely dispersed as we believe due to, for example, the application of certain ownership attribution rules, and no assurance may be given that a U.S. Person who owns our shares will not be characterized as a 10% U.S. shareholder, in which case such U.S. Person may be subject to taxation under U.S. CFC rules.. Recently enacted U.S. tax reform legislation, as well as possible future tax legislation and regulations, could materially adversely affect an investment in our shares.. The 2017 Act amends a range of U.S. federal tax rules applicable to individuals, businesses and international taxation, with certain provisions intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections and U.S. persons investing in such companies. For example, the 2017 Act includes a BEAT that could make affiliate reinsurance between U.S. and non-U.S. members of our group economically unfeasible. In addition, the 21% corporate income tax rate could lead to higher after-tax income for most U.S. insurance companies in the long term that could result in increased competition for our products and services.. The 2017 Act may also increase the likelihood that we or our non-U.S. subsidiaries will be deemed to be CFCs for U.S. federal tax purposes. Specifically, the 2017 Act expands the definition of \"10% U.S. shareholder\" for CFC purposes to include U.S. persons who own 10% or more of the value of a foreign corporation's shares, rather than only looking to voting power held. As a result, the \"voting cut-back\" provisions included in our Amended and Restated Bye-laws that limit the voting power of any shareholder to 9.5% of the total voting power of our capital stock will be ineffective in avoiding \"10% U.S. shareholder\" status for U.S. persons who own 10% or more of the value of our shares. The 2017 Act also expands certain attribution rules for stock ownership in a way that would cause foreign subsidiaries in a foreign parented group that includes at least one U.S. subsidiary to be treated as CFCs. In the event a corporation is characterized as a CFC, any \"10% U.S. shareholder\" of the CFC is required to include its pro rata share of certain insurance and related investment income in income for a taxable year, even if such income is not distributed. In addition, U.S. tax exempt entities subject to the unrelated business taxable income (\"UBTI\") rules that own 10% or more of the value of our non-U.S. subsidiaries that are characterized as CFCs may recognize UBTI with respect to such investment.. In addition to changes in the CFC rules, the 2017 Act contains modifications to certain provisions relating to PFIC status that could, for example, discourage U.S. persons from investing in our company. The 2017 Act makes it more difficult for a non-U.S. insurance company to avoid PFIC status under an exception for certain non-U.S. insurance companies engaged in the active conduct of an insurance business. The 2017 Act limits this exception to a non-U.S. insurance company that would be taxable as an insurance company if it were a U.S. corporation and that maintains insurance liabilities of more than 25% of such company's assets for a taxable year (or maintains reserves that at least equal 10% of its assets and it satisfies a facts and circumstances test that requires a showing that the failure to exceed the 25% threshold is due to run-off or rating agency circumstances). While we believe that we should satisfy this reserve test for the foreseeable future, we cannot assure you that this will continue to be the case in future years. The IRS has been considering other changes to the PFIC rules for several years. In 2015, the IRS issued proposed regulations intended to clarify the application of this insurance company exception to the classification of a non-U.S. insurer as a PFIC. These proposed regulations provide that a non-U.S. insurer will qualify for the insurance company exception only if, among other things, the non-U.S. insurer's officers and employees perform its substantial managerial and operational activities. This proposed regulation will not be effective until adopted in final form.. Although we are currently unable to predict the ultimate impact of the 2017 Act on our business, shareholders and results of operations, it is possible that the 2017 Act may increase the U.S. federal income tax liability of U.S. members of our group that cede risk to non-U.S. group members and may affect the timing and amount of U.S. federal income taxes imposed on certain U.S. shareholders.  Further, it is possible that other legislation could be introduced and enacted by the current Congress or future Congresses that could have an adverse impact on us.  In addition, U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the U.S. is a PFIC, or whether U.S. Persons would be required to include in their gross income the \"subpart F income\" of a CFC or RPII are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There currently are only recently proposed regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies, and the regulations regarding RPII have been in proposed form since 1991. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. The Company cannot be certain if, when, or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be implemented or made, or whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. Further, it is possible that other legislation could be introduced and enacted in the future that would have an adverse impact on us.. We may be subject to U.K. taxes, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on an investment in our shares.. A company which is resident in the U.K. for U.K. corporation tax purposes is subject to U.K. corporation tax in respect of its worldwide income and gains. While Maiden Global is a U.K. company, neither Maiden Holdings nor Maiden Bermuda are incorporated in the U.K. Nevertheless, Maiden Holdings or Maiden Bermuda would be treated as being resident in the U.K. for. 39. U.K. corporation tax purposes if its central management and control were exercised in the U.K. The concept of central management and control is indicative of the highest level of control of a company's affairs, which is wholly a question of fact. The directors and officers of both Maiden Holdings and Maiden Bermuda intend to manage their affairs so that both companies are resident in Bermuda, and not resident in the U.K., for U.K. tax purposes. However, HM Revenue & Customs could challenge our tax residence status.. A company which is not resident in the U.K. for U.K. corporation tax purposes can nevertheless be subject to U.K. corporation tax at the rate of 19% if it carries on a trade in the U.K. through a permanent establishment in the U.K., but the charge to U.K. corporation tax is limited to profits (both income profits and chargeable gains) attributable directly or indirectly to such permanent establishment.. The directors and officers of Maiden Bermuda intend to operate the business of Maiden Bermuda in such a manner that it does not carry on a trade in the U.K. through a permanent establishment in the U.K. Nevertheless, HM Revenue & Customs might contend successfully that Maiden Bermuda is trading in the U.K. through a permanent establishment in the U.K. because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities which constitute carrying on a trade in the U.K. through a permanent establishment in the U.K.. The U.K. has no income tax treaty with Bermuda. Companies that are neither resident in the U.K. nor entitled to the protection afforded by a double tax treaty between the U.K. and the jurisdiction in which they are resident are liable to income tax in the U.K., at the basic rate of 20%, on the profits of a trade carried on in the U.K., where that trade is not carried on through a permanent establishment in the U.K. The directors and officers of Maiden Bermuda intend to operate the business in such a manner that Maiden Bermuda will not fall within the charge to income tax in the U.K. (other than by way of deduction or withholding).. In addition, diverted profits tax (\"DPT\") applies to foreign companies with sales in the U.K. (such as Maiden Bermuda) that design their affairs to avoid creating a taxable presence (in the form of a permanent establishment) in the U.K., or to U.K. companies that enter into transactions with connected companies which lack economic substance to exploit differentials in tax rates. DPT is charged at 25% of the profits representing the contribution of the U.K. activities to the group's results.. If either Maiden Holdings or Maiden Bermuda were treated as being resident in the U.K. for U.K. corporation tax purposes, or if Maiden Bermuda were treated as carrying on a trade in the U.K., whether through a permanent establishment or otherwise, or if DPT applied, the results of our operations would be materially adversely affected.. Any arrangements (including with regard to the provision of services or financing) between Maiden Global and any non-U.K. resident members of the group are subject to the U.K. transfer pricing regime.  Consequently, if any such arrangement were found not to be on arm's length terms and, as a result, a U.K. tax advantage was being obtained, an adjustment would be required to compute U.K. tax profits as if such arrangement were on arm's length terms.  Any transfer pricing adjustment could adversely impact the tax charge suffered by Maiden Global. The U.K. has implemented the BEPS recommendation for \"country-by-country\" reporting. As a result, our approach to transfer pricing may become subject to greater scrutiny from the U.K. tax authorities."
