[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors.. We are subject to credit risk in connection with our lending activities, and our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted by economic conditions and other factors that adversely affect our borrowers.. Our financial condition and results of operations are affected by the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, and in a timely manner. Lending money is a significant part of the banking business. Borrowers, however, do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is assessed through our underwriting and loan review procedures based on several factors including credit risks of a particular borrower, changes in economic conditions, the duration of the loan and in the case of a collateralized loan, uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral and other factors. Despite our efforts, we do and will experience loan losses, and our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our non-performing assets were approximately $1.2 million at September 30, 2017. Our allowance for loan losses was approximately $8.4 million at September 30, 2017. Our loans between thirty and eighty-nine days delinquent totaled $5.0 million at September 30, 2017.. -13-. The changing economic environment may continue to create volatility and impact our operations and results.. Developments in the economy both specific and non-specific to the financial services industry have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic uncertainty globally. As a consequence of the most recent protracted United States recessionary period, business activities across a wide range of industries have faced serious difficulties which have altered the way the industry approaches its markets. In recent fiscal periods, however; there have been bright spots in economic recovery; an increase in employment, in the housing market and in consumer spending, to cite some major factors. This is buoyed by, geo-political issues, fiscal and monetary policy shifts in the U.S. and the overall sustainability of positive sectors of the markets.. As a result of these factors affecting the overall economy, many lending institutions, including us, are cautious about the volatility and impact in the performance of their loans, including residential, construction, commercial and consumer loans. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages, while they have improved, remain subject to shifting dynamics in the broader markets. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly while the significant decline in economic growth has led to a slowdown in banking related activities. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events:. •we potentially face increased regulation of our industry and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities;. •customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates;. •the process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans; and. •the value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold may be adversely affected.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation.. Our net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on loans, investments and other interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred on deposits and borrowed funds. The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing liabilities, and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors (the “FOMC”), and market interest rates.. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience gaps in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or re-price more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or re-price more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce our net interest income. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, deflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets.. We also attempt to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest rate sensitive assets and interest rate sensitive liabilities. However, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. A rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance.. -14-. Our high concentration of commercial real estate loans exposes us to increased lending risk.. As of September 30, 2017, the primary composition of our total loan portfolio was as follows:. •commercial real estate loans of $437.8 million, or 52.0% of total loans;. •construction and development loans of $54.0 million, or 6.4% of total loans;. •commercial and industrial loans of $116.3 million, or 13.8% of total loans;. •residential real estate loans of $192.5 million, or 22.9% of total loans and. •consumer loans of $41.6 million, or 4.9% of total loans. Commercial real estate loans, which comprised 52.0% of our total loan portfolio as of September 30, 2017, expose us to a greater risk of loss than do residential mortgage loans. Commercial real estate loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one commercial loan or one credit relationship exposes us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one residential mortgage loan. Any significant failure to pay on time by our customers or a significant default by our customers would materially and adversely affect us.. Although the economy in our market area generally, and the real estate market in particular, is improving, we can give you no assurance that it will continue to grow or that the rate of growth will accelerate to historic levels. Many factors could reduce or halt growth in our local economy and real estate market. Accordingly, it may be more difficult for commercial real estate borrowers to repay their loans in a timely manner in the current economic climate, as commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans frequently depends on the successful development of their properties. The deterioration of one or a few of our commercial real estate loans could cause a material increase in our level of nonperforming loans, which would result in a loss of revenue from these loans and could result in an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses and/or an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our net income. We also may incur losses on commercial real estate loans due to declines in occupancy rates and rental rates, which may decrease property values and may decrease the likelihood that a borrower may find permanent financing alternatives. Given the continued weaknesses in the commercial real estate market in general, there may be loans where the value of our collateral has been negatively impacted. Any weakening of the commercial real estate market may increase the likelihood of default of these loans, which could negatively impact our loan portfolio’s performance and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, we could incur material losses. Any of these events could increase our costs, require management time and attention, and materially and adversely affect us.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease.. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. A new accounting standard will likely require us to increase our allowance for loan losses and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for the Company and the Bank after December 15, 2019.  This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses.  This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which would likely require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses.  Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. -15-. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to report on our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we cannot assure you that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) or NASDAQ. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock and may also result in delayed filings with the SEC.. As we previously disclosed, in November 21, 2017, we were advised by BDO USA, LLP (“BDO”), our independent registered public accounting firm, that BDO had concluded that a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting existed, and that BDO’s report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2016 in Item 9A of the Company’s fiscal 2016 10-K that the Company’ internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2016, should no longer be relied upon. BDO also informed us at that time that BDO’s audit report on the Company’s consolidated financial statements as of September 30, 2016 and 2015, and for each of the years in the two year period ended September 30, 2016, and BDO’s completed interim reviews of the Company’s consolidated interim financial statements as of and for the periods ended December 31, 2016, March 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017 (collectively, the “Specified Financial Statements”), should no longer be relied upon. We have restated the Specified Financial Statements, which were included in amendments to the Company’s fiscal 2016 10-K and 10-Qs for the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 that we have filed with the SEC. The matters described above related to our income tax account balances. As a result of the foregoing, management has determined that its internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2017 was not effective. See Item 9A herein. While management believes that it has remediated the underlying causes of this material weakness, if our remediation efforts do not operate effectively or if we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation efforts, this may result in untimely or inaccurate reporting of our financial results.. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth.. The banking and financial services industry in our market area is highly competitive. We may not be able to compete effectively in our markets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The increasingly competitive environment is a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and consolidation among financial service providers. Larger institutions have greater access to capital markets, with higher lending limits and a broader array of services. Competition may require increases in deposit rates and decreases in loan rates, and adversely impact our net interest margin.. The effects of the current economic conditions have been particularly severe in our primary market areas.. Substantially all of our loans are to individuals, businesses and real estate developers in Chester County, Pennsylvania and neighboring areas in southern Pennsylvania, New Jersey and the New York metropolitan marketplace.  Our business depends significantly on general economic conditions in these market areas.  While these areas at present show stable trends and good economic conditions, a change in these trends and/or an economic downturn in the local real estate market could harm our financial condition and results of operation in the following ways:. •     Loan delinquencies may increase further;. •     Problem assets and foreclosures may increase further;. •     Demand for our products and services may decline;. •     The carrying value of our other real estate owned may decline further; and. -16-. •     Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may continue to decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB, our primary federal regulator, the OCC, the Bank’s primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of the Bank’s deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations.. The fair value of our investment securities can fluctuate due to market conditions outside of our control.. As of September 30, 2017, the fair value of our investment securities portfolio was approximately $49.5 million. We have historically taken a conservative investment strategy, with concentrations of securities that are backed by government sponsored enterprises. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency actions in respect of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, and changes in market interest rates and continued instability in the capital markets. Any of these factors, among others, could cause other-than-temporary impairments and realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods and declines in other comprehensive income, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The process for determining whether impairment of a security is other-than-temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance and liquidity of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security.. Our growth-oriented business strategy could be adversely affected if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees or if we lose the services of our senior management team.. Our ability to manage growth will depend upon our ability to continue to attract, hire and retain skilled employees. The loss of members of our senior management team, including those officers named in the summary compensation table of our proxy statement, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to execute our strategic goals. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational and other systems, to manage multiple, concurrent customer relationships and to hire, train and manage our employees.. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on us.. Information technology systems are critical to our business. We use various technology systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, securities, deposits, and loans. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches (including privacy breaches), but such events may still occur and may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security.. In addition, we outsource a majority of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. -17-. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Furthermore, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures arising from operational and security risks. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our business have not yet been fully analyzed and could have an adverse effect on our net income.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) was signed into law. We are in the process of analyzing the Act and its possible effects on the Company and the Bank. The Act reduces the corporate tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent, among other things. It could also require us to write down our deferred tax assets, which would reduce our net income during the first quarter of fiscal 2018. We cannot determine at this time the amount of any such write down, or the full effects of the Act on our business and financial results."
