[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within the Company's control, which may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. Investors should consider carefully information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in light of the risk factors described below.. Sales of our products are cyclical and/or are otherwise sensitive to volatile or variable factors. A downturn or weakness in overall economic activity or fluctuations in those other factors can have a material adverse effect on us.. Historically, sales of products that we manufacture and sell have been subject to cyclical variations caused by changes in general economic conditions and other factors. In particular, demand for our products is cyclical and is impacted by the strength of the economy, generally, the availability of financing and other factors, including crude oil prices, that may have an effect on the level of construction activity on an international, national or regional basis. During periods of expansion in construction activity, we generally have benefited from increased demand for our products. Conversely, during recessionary periods, we have been adversely affected by reduced demand for our products, and challenging conditions can continue well beyond the end of such periods. Furthermore, any future economic recession may impact leveraged companies, such as Manitowoc, more than competing companies with less leverage and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 9. Table of Contents. Demand for our products also depend in part on federal, state, local and foreign governmental spending and appropriations, including infrastructure, security and defense outlays. Reductions in governmental spending can reduce demand for our products, which in turn, can negatively affect our performance. Our sales depend in part upon our customers' replacement or repair cycles. Adverse economic conditions may cause customers to forego or postpone new purchases in favor of repairing existing machinery.. If we are unable to sufficiently adjust to market conditions, among other potential adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, we could fail to deliver on planned results, fall short of analyst and investor expectations, incur high fixed costs and/or fail to benefit from higher than expected customer demand resulting in loss of market share.. Our operational results are dependent on how well we can scale our manufacturing capacity and resources to the level of our customers' demand.. We sell our products in industries that require manufacturers to make highly efficient use of manufacturing capacity. Insufficient or excess capacity threatens our ability to generate competitive profit margins and may expose us to liabilities such as contractual commitments. Although from time to time we close or consolidate facilities, adapting or modifying our capacity is difficult, as modifications take substantial time to execute, are inherently disruptive and costly and, in some cases, may require regulatory approval. Additionally, delivering product during process or facility modifications requires special coordination. The cost and resources required to adapt our capacity, such as through facility acquisitions, facility closings or process moves between facilities, may negate any planned cost reductions or may result in costly delays, product quality issues or material shortages, all of which could adversely affect our operational results and our reputation with our customers.. Large or rapid increases in the cost of raw materials or components parts, substantial decreases in their availability, or our dependence on particular suppliers of raw materials and component parts could materially and adversely affect our operating results.. We use large amounts of steel, among other items, in the manufacture of our products. Occasionally, market prices of some of our key raw materials increase significantly.  If in the future we are not able to reduce product costs in other areas or pass raw material price increases on to our customers, our margins could be adversely affected. In addition, because we maintain limited raw material and component inventories, even brief unanticipated delays in delivery by suppliers - including those due to capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired financial condition of suppliers, weather emergencies or other natural disasters - may impair our ability to satisfy our customers and could adversely affect our financial performance.. The Company purchases certain branded cranes under strategic alliances from various third-party suppliers which are then sold into our markets. If we are not able to effectively manage pricing from these suppliers, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Likewise, if our suppliers terminate these agreements and we are unable to procure alternate products at substantially similar competitive pricing, our financial performance could be adversely affected.. Our results of operations are subject to exchange rate and other currency risks.  A significant movement in exchange rates could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.. Certain of our indebtedness accrues interest at a variable rate, therefore, increases in interest rates will reduce our operating cash flows and could hinder our ability to fund our operations or capital expenditures.  In such cases, we may seek to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, but hedging our exposure carries the risk that we may forego the benefits we would otherwise experience if interest rates were to change in our favor.  Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy is guaranteed to completely insulate us from the risks associated with such fluctuations.. Additionally, some of our operations are and will continue to be conducted by subsidiaries in foreign countries. The results of the operations and the financial position of these subsidiaries will be reported in the relevant foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, which are stated in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Such fluctuations may have a material effect on our results of operations and financial position and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods.. 10. Table of Contents. We also incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into a transaction using a different currency than its functional currency. We attempt to reduce currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into a material transaction using a different currency than its functional currency by:. •  matching cash flows and payments in the same currency;. •  direct foreign currency borrowing; and. •  entering into foreign exchange contracts for hedging purposes.. However, we may not be able to hedge this risk completely or at an acceptable cost, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in future periods.. If we do not develop new and innovative products or if customers in our markets do not accept them, our results could be negatively affected.. Our products must be kept current to meet our customers' needs. To remain competitive, we therefore must develop new and innovative products on an on-going basis. If we fail to make innovations or the market does not accept our new products, our sales and results would likely suffer. We invest significantly in the research and development of new products. These expenditures do not always result in products that will be accepted by the market. To the extent they do not, whether as a function of the product or the business cycle, we will have increased expenses without significant sales to benefit us. Failure to develop successful new products may also cause potential customers to purchase competitors' products, rather than invest in products manufactured by us.. Because we participate in industries that are highly competitive, our net sales and profits could decline as we respond, or fail to effectively respond, to competition.. We sell most of our products in highly competitive industries. We compete in each of those industries based on product design, quality of products, quality and responsiveness of product support services, product performance, maintenance costs and price. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing and distribution resources than we do. These competitors may, among others:. •  respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies;. •  have greater name recognition, critical mass or geographic market presence;. •  be better able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities;. •  adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements;. •  devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products;. •  be better positioned to compete on price for their products, due to any combination of low-cost labor, raw materials, components, facilities or other operating items, or willingness to make sales at lower margins than us;. •  consolidate with other competitors in the industry which may create increased pricing and competitive pressures on our business; and. •  be better able to utilize excess capacity which may reduce the cost of their products or services.. We cannot be certain that our products and services will continue to compete successfully with those of our competitors or that we will be able to retain our customer base or improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our ongoing and expected restructuring plans and other cost savings initiatives may not be as effective as we anticipate and we may fail to realize the cost savings and increased efficiencies that we expect to result from these actions.  Our operating results could be negatively affected by our inability to effectively implement such restructuring plans and other cost saving initiatives.. We continually seek ways to simplify or improve processes, eliminate excess capacity and reduce costs in all areas of our operations, which from time to time includes restructuring activities. We have implemented significant restructuring activities across our global manufacturing, sales and distribution footprint, which includes workforce reductions and facility consolidations.. 11. Table of Contents. Our restructuring actions may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the cost savings we expect from these actions. Actual charges, costs and adjustments due to restructuring activities may vary materially from our estimates. Our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to effectively eliminate duplicative back office overhead and overlapping sales personnel, rationalize manufacturing capacity, synchronize information technology systems, consolidate warehousing and distribution facilities, and shift production to more economical facilities. Our restructuring plans will require significant cash and non-cash integration and implementation costs or charges in order to achieve those cost savings, which could offset any such savings and other synergies.. Although we have considered the impact of local regulations, negotiations with employee representatives and the related costs associated with our restructuring activities, factors beyond the control of management may affect the timing of these projects and therefore affect when savings will be achieved under the plans. Further, our operating results could be negatively affected if we are not successful in completing the restructuring projects in the time frames contemplated or if additional issues arise during the projects that add costs to or disrupt our operations.. We have significant manufacturing and sales of our products outside of the United States and such international operations may be subject to a number of risks specific to these countries.. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, approximately 61%, 60% and 58%, respectively, of our net sales were attributable to products sold outside of the United States. Expanding the Company's international sales is part of our growth strategy. Our international operations across many different jurisdictions may be subject to a number of risks specific to these countries, including:. •  less flexible employee relationships which can be difficult and expensive to terminate;. •  labor unrest;. •  political and economic instability (including war and acts of terrorism);. •  inadequate infrastructure for our operations (i.e., lack of adequate power, water, transportation and raw materials);. •  health concerns and related government actions;. •  risk of governmental expropriation of our property;. •  less favorable, or relatively undefined, intellectual property laws;. •  unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws;. •  longer customer payment cycles and difficulty in collecting trade accounts receivable;. •  export duties, tariffs, import controls and trade barriers (including quotas);. •  adverse trade policies or adverse changes to any of the policies of either the United States or any of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate;. •  adverse changes in tax rates or regulations;. •  legal or political constraints on our ability to maintain or increase prices;. •  burdens of complying with a wide variety of labor practices and foreign laws, including those relating to export and import duties, environmental policies and privacy issues;. •  inability to utilize net operating losses incurred by our foreign operations against future income in the same jurisdiction; and. •  economies that are emerging or developing, that may be subject to greater currency volatility, negative growth, high inflation, limited availability of foreign exchange and other risks.. These factors may harm our results of operations, and any measures that we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies and other risks of our international operations may not be effective. In our experience, entry into new international markets requires considerable management time as well as start-up expenses for market development, hiring and establishing office facilities before any significant revenue is generated. As a result, initial operations in a new market may operate at low margins or may be unprofitable.. 12. Table of Contents. Our international sales and operations are subject to applicable laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations.. We must comply with all applicable international trade, customs, export controls and economic sanctions laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. We are also subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws that generally bar bribes or gifts to foreign governments or officials. The new presidential administration in the United States has taken, and make take additional, actions that may inhibit international trade by U.S.-based companies. Changes in trade sanctions laws may restrict our business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries or with sanctioned parties, and may result in modifications to compliance programs. Violation of these laws or regulations could result in sanctions or fines and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If we do not meet customers' product quality, reliability standards and expectations, we may experience increased or unexpected product warranty claims and other adverse consequences to our business.. Product quality and reliability are significant factors influencing customers' decisions to purchase our products. Inability to maintain the high quality of our products relative to the perceived or actual quality of similar products offered by competitors could result in the loss of market share, loss of revenue, reduced profitability, an increase in warranty costs, government investigations and/or damage to our reputation.. Product quality and reliability are determined in part by factors that are not entirely within our control.  We depend on our suppliers for parts and components that meet our standards.  If our suppliers fail to meet those standards, we may not be able to deliver the quality of products that our customers expect, which may impair our reputation, resulting in lower revenue and higher warranty costs.. We provide our customers a warranty covering workmanship, and in some cases materials, on products we manufacture. Our warranty generally provides that products will be free from defects for periods ranging from 12 months to 60 months. If a product fails to comply with the warranty, we may be obligated, at our expense, to correct any defect by repairing or replacing the defective product. Although we maintain warranty reserves in an amount based primarily on the number of units shipped and on historical and anticipated warranty claims, there can be no assurance that future warranty claims will follow historical patterns or that we can accurately anticipate the level of future warranty claims. An increase in the rate of warranty claims or the occurrence of unexpected warranty claims, for which we are not insured, where the damages exceed insurance coverage, where we cannot recover from our vendors to the extent their materials or workmanship were defective, or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied or limited and for which indemnification is not available, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may incur additional expenses and delays due to technical problems or other interruptions at our manufacturing facilities.. Disruptions in operations due to technical problems or other interruptions such as floods or fire would adversely affect the manufacturing capacity of our facilities. Such interruptions could cause delays in production and cause us to incur additional expenses such as charges for expedited deliveries for products that are delayed. Additionally, our customers may have the ability to cancel purchase orders in the event of any delays in production and may decrease future orders if delays are persistent. Additionally, to the extent that such disruptions do not result from damage to our physical property, these may not be covered by our business interruption insurance. Any such disruptions may adversely affect our business, operations, and financial results.. We face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties.. We sell a portion of our products through third parties such as distributors, agents and channel partners (collectively referred to as distributors). Using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks. Distributors may sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to focus distributors on the sale of our products. We may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. Distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. Failing to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position.. 13. Table of Contents. We depend on our key executive officers, managers and skilled personnel and may have difficulty retaining and recruiting qualified employees.. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our executive officers, senior management personnel, managers and other skilled personnel and our ability to recruit and retain skilled personnel to maintain and expand our operations. We could be affected by the loss of any of our executive officers who are responsible for formulating and implementing our business plan and strategy. In addition, we need to recruit and retain additional management personnel and other skilled employees. However, competition is high for skilled technical personnel among companies that rely on engineering and technology, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct design, engineering and manufacturing activities successfully and develop marketable products. We may not be able to attract the skilled personnel we require or retain those whom we have trained at our own cost. If we are not able to do so, our business and our ability to continue to grow could be negatively affected and we could face additional competition from those who leave and work for our competitors.. Some of our customers may not be able to obtain financing with third parties to purchase our products, and we may incur expenses associated with our assistance to customers in securing third-party financing.. A portion of our sales are financed by third-party finance companies on behalf of our customers. The availability of financing from third parties is affected by general economic conditions, the creditworthiness of our customers and the estimated residual value of our equipment.  In certain transactions, we provide residual value guarantees and buyback commitments to our customers or to third-party financial institutions.  Deterioration in the credit quality of our customers or the overall health of the finance industry could negatively impact our customer's ability to obtain the resources needed to make purchases of our equipment or their ability to obtain third-party financing. In addition, if the actual value of the equipment for which we have provided a residual value guaranty declines below the amount of our guaranty, we may incur additional costs, which may negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If our manufacturing processes and products do not comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, or if we manufacture products containing design or manufacturing defects, demand for our products may decline and we may be subject to product liability claims.. Our designs, manufacturing processes and facilities need to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. We may also have the responsibility to ensure that products we design satisfy safety and regulatory standards including those applicable to our customers and to obtain any necessary certifications. As a result, products that we manufacture may at times contain manufacturing or design defects, and our manufacturing processes may be subject to errors or not be in compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements or demands of our customers. Potential defects in the products we manufacture or design, whether caused by a design, manufacturing or component failure or error, or deficiencies in our manufacturing processes, may result in delayed shipments to customers, replacement costs or reduced or canceled customer orders. If these defects or deficiencies are significant, our business reputation may also be damaged. The failure of the products that we manufacture or our manufacturing processes and facilities to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements may subject us to legal fines or penalties and, in some cases, require us to shut down or incur considerable expense to correct a manufacturing process or facility.. Any manufacturing or design defects may also result in product liability claims. Furthermore, customers use some of our products in potentially hazardous applications that can cause injury or loss of life and damage to property, equipment or the environment. We may be named as a defendant in product liability or other lawsuits asserting potentially large claims if an accident occurs at a location where our equipment and services have been or are being used. Certain of our businesses also have experienced claims relating to past alleged asbestos exposure. Neither we nor our affiliates have to date incurred material costs related to these asbestos claims. We vigorously defend ourselves against current claims and intend to do so against future claims. We also maintain certain insurance policies which may limit our financial exposures. Any significant liabilities which are not covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Likewise, a substantial increase in the number of claims that are made against us or the amounts of any judgments or settlements could materially and adversely affect our reputation and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 14. Table of Contents. We may not be able to maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing expertise.. The markets for our products are characterized by changing technology and evolving process development. The continued success of our business will depend upon our ability to:. •hire, retain and expand our pool of qualified engineering and technical personnel;. •maintain technological leadership in our industry;. •successfully anticipate or respond to changes in manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner; and. •successfully anticipate or respond to changes in cost to serve in a cost-effective and timely manner.. We cannot be certain that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technologies, industry standards or customer requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or uncompetitive. We may have to acquire new technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and implementation of new technologies and equipment may require us to incur significant expense and capital investment, which could reduce our margins and affect our operating results. When we establish new facilities, we may not be able to maintain or develop our engineering, technological and manufacturing expertise due to a lack of trained personnel, effective training of new staff or technical difficulties with machinery. Failure to anticipate and adapt to customers' changing technological needs and requirements or to hire and retain a sufficient number of engineers and maintain engineering, technological and manufacturing expertise may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Any disruption in our information systems could disrupt our operations and would be adverse to our business and financial operations.. We depend on various information systems to support our customers' requirements and to successfully manage our business, including managing orders, suppliers, accounting controls and payroll. Any inability to successfully manage the procurement, development, implementation or execution of our information systems and back-up systems, including matters related to system security, reliability, performance and access, as well as any inability of these systems to fulfill their intended purpose within our business, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Such disruptions may not be covered by our business interruption insurance.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our internal and external data centers, cloud services and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure, and that of our partners, may be vulnerable to malicious attacks or breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions, including as a result of rollouts of new systems. Any such breach or operational failure would compromise our networks and/or that of our partners and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings and/or regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and/or cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business.. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights or maintain our rights to use licensed intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected.. Our patents, trademarks and licenses are important in the operation of our business. Although we intend to protect our intellectual property rights vigorously, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in doing so. Third parties may assert or prosecute infringement claims against us in connection with the services and products that we offer, and we may or may not be able to successfully defend these claims. Litigation, either to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others, could result in substantial costs and in a diversion of our resources. In addition, if a third party would prevail in an infringement claim against us, then we would likely need to obtain a license from the third party on commercial terms, which would likely increase our costs. Our failure to maintain or obtain necessary licenses or an adverse outcome in any litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 15. Table of Contents. Increasing costs of doing business in many countries in which we operate may adversely affect our business and financial results.. Increasing costs such as labor and overhead costs in the countries in which we operate may erode our profit margins and compromise our price competitiveness. Historically, the low cost of labor in certain of the countries in which we operate has been a competitive advantage but labor costs in these countries, such as China, have been increasing. Our profitability also depends on our ability to manage and contain our other operating expenses such as the cost of utilities, factory supplies, factory space costs, equipment rental, repairs and maintenance and freight and packaging expenses. In the event we are unable to manage any increase in our labor and other operating expenses in an environment where revenue does not increase proportionately, our financial results would be adversely affected.. Our goodwill and other intangible assets represent a material amount of our total assets; as a result future impairment may have material adverse effect on our results of operations.. At December 31, 2017, goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $443.4 million, or about 28% of our total assets. We assess annually whether there has been impairment in the value of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. If future operating performance were to fall below current projections or if there are material changes to management's assumptions, we could be required to recognize a non-cash charge to operating earnings for goodwill or other intangible asset impairment. Any future goodwill or intangible asset impairments may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our operations and profitability could suffer if we experience problems with labor relations.. As of December 31, 2017, we employed approximately 4,900 people. A large majority of our European employees belong to various European trade unions, we have one trade union in China, one trade union in India, and no trade unions in North America. During 2017, four of our union contracts expired and were successfully renegotiated without incident. We have two union contracts involving an aggregate of 125 employees that expire in 2018.. Any significant labor relations issues could have an adverse effect our operations, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.. Our leverage may impair our operations and financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, our total consolidated debt was $274.9 million as compared to consolidated debt of $281.5 million as of December 31, 2016, including the value of related interest rate hedging instruments.  On March 3, 2016, the Company entered into a $225.0 million Asset Based Revolving Credit Facility (as amended, the \"ABL Revolving Credit Facility\") by and among the Company and certain of its domestic and German subsidiaries, as borrowers, the lender party thereto, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. as administrative agent, and Wells Fargo Bank N.A., JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Goldman Sachs Bank USA as joint lead arrangers.  The ABL Revolving Credit Facility includes a $75.0 million Letter of Credit Facility, $10.0 million of which is available to the German borrower, with a maturity date of March 3, 2021.. The amount of debt we maintain could have consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest rather than to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate.. The agreements governing our debt include covenants that restrict, among other matters, our ability to incur additional debt, pay dividends on or repurchase our equity, make certain investments, and consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. Certain of our debt facilities require or will require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Adhering to these covenants may also require that we take disadvantageous actions, including reducing spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation, reducing future financing for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, selling assets or dedicating an unsustainable level of cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness.  Our leverage could also put us at a disadvantage compared to any competitors that are less leveraged. We cannot be certain that we will meet any future financial tests or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet those tests. See additional discussion in Note 10, \"Debt\" to our Consolidated Financial Statements.. 16. Table of Contents. If we default under our debt agreements, our lenders could elect, among other potential remedies, to declare all amounts outstanding under our debt agreements to be immediately due and payable and could proceed against any collateral securing the debt.. Exposure to additional tax liabilities may have a negative impact on our operating results.. We regularly undergo tax audits in various jurisdictions in which we operate. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that we prepare our tax filings in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audits, and any related contests thereto, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or contests thereto could have a material adverse effect on operating results and/or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made. In addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties and/or interest assessments.. Environmental liabilities that may arise in the future could be material to us.. Our operations, facilities and properties are subject to extensive and evolving laws and regulations pertaining to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination, and otherwise relating to health, safety and the protection of the environment. As a result, we are involved from time to time in administrative or legal proceedings relating to environmental and health and safety matters and have in the past and will continue to incur capital costs and other expenditures relating to such matters.. We cannot be certain that identification of presently unidentified environmental conditions, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory authorities or other unanticipated events will not arise in the future and give rise to additional environmental liabilities, compliance costs and/or penalties that could be material. Further, environmental laws and regulations are constantly evolving, and it is impossible to predict accurately the effect they may have upon our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. In addition, increasing laws and regulations dealing with environmental aspects of the products we manufacture can result in significant expenditures in designing and manufacturing new products that satisfy such new laws and regulations. In particular, climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. Many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gas emissions. While additional regulation of emissions in the future appears likely, how such new regulations would ultimately affect our business, operations or financial results is unknown at this time.. Our inability to recover from natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our business.. Our business and financial results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate or that are beyond our control, such as natural or manmade disasters, national emergencies, significant labor strikes, work stoppages, political unrest, war or terrorist activities that could curtail production at our facilities and cause delayed deliveries and canceled orders. In addition, we purchase components and raw materials and information technology and other services from numerous suppliers, and, even if our facilities were not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions at such suppliers. Such suppliers may be less likely than our own facilities to be able to quickly recover from such events and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations.  We cannot assure you that we will have insurance to adequately compensate us for any of these events.. Compliance or the failure to comply with regulations and governmental policies could cause us to incur significant expense.. We are subject to a variety of local and foreign laws and regulations including those relating to labor and health and safety concerns and import/export duties and customs. Such laws may require us to pay mandated compensation in the event of workplace accidents and penalties in the event of incorrect payments of duties or customs. Additionally, we may need to obtain and maintain licenses and permits to conduct business in various jurisdictions. If we or the businesses or companies we acquire have failed or fail in the future to comply with such laws and regulations, then we could incur liabilities and fines and our operations could be suspended. Such laws and regulations could also restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities, could require us to acquire costly equipment, or could impose other significant expenditures.. We continue the transition to various regulations, particularly in Europe, including Tier 5 power systems and crash test regulations for Mobile products, as well as Towers cab lift requirements. While plans are in place to comply with the phase-in of these regulations, there is a significant amount of engineering that the Company must complete to comply with these. 17. Table of Contents. standards. A failure to implement these new standards may result in the loss of market share or fines from regulatory agencies which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. We face risks associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations.. We have both funded and unfunded pension and other postretirement benefit plans worldwide. As of December 31, 2017, our projected benefit obligations under our pension and other postretirement benefit plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $119.4 million (\"unfunded status\"), compared to $129.6 million at December 31, 2016. Estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these benefit plans are based on various assumptions. These assumptions include discount rates, rates of compensation increases, expected long-term rates of return on plan assets and expected healthcare cost trend rates. If our assumptions prove incorrect, our funding obligations may increase, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We have invested the plan assets of our funded benefit plans in various equity and debt securities. A deterioration in the value of plan assets could cause the unfunded status of these benefit plans to increase, thereby increasing our obligation to make additional contributions to these plans. An obligation to make contributions to our benefit plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Our business and/or reputation could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist shareholders, and such activism could impact the trading value of our securities.. Certain of our shareholders have publicly or privately expressed views with respect to the operation of our business, our business strategy, corporate governance considerations or other matters that may not be fully aligned with our own.  Responding to actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees.  Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, damage to our reputation and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified directors, personnel and business partners. These actions could also cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility.. Activist shareholders have made, and may in the future make, strategic proposals, suggestions or requests for changes concerning the operation of our business, our business strategy, corporate governance considerations or other matters.  We cannot predict, and no assurances can be given, as to the outcome or timing of any consequences arising from these actions, and any such consequences may impact the value of our securities.. 18. Table of Contents"
